---

title: Image capture challenge access
abstract: Aspects of image capture challenge access are described. In one embodiment, an access service of a computing device directs an imaging system to capture an image including facial fiducial features and determine whether the features correspond to an expected set of features. The access service may also issue a request for a response including, for example, a request to tilt or move the computing device, move an individual's face, or contort an individual's facial features. After the request for the response, the access service may capture a response image. The response image may include an adjustment to facial fiducial features. The access service may further determine whether the adjustment to the facial fiducial features corresponds to the request. Depending upon whether the adjustment corresponds to the request, the access service may permit or deny access to features of the computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584510&OS=09584510&RS=09584510
owner: AirWatch LLC
number: 09584510
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140930
---
In various computing systems and devices access control is often relied upon to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive data and services. Different types of access control may rely upon passwords software or hardware keys biometric keys multi factor authentication etc. It should be appreciated however that certain types of access control may not be suitable for use with certain computing systems and devices. For example different types of access control may be more or less susceptible to attack and circumvention comparatively. Thus for securing especially sensitive data a weak type of access control may be unsuitable. Meanwhile from a usability standpoint certain types of access control may be more or less difficult and or frustrating for a user to use. Generally it is necessary to select an appropriate type of access control based upon a balance of the type of computing system or device being protected the expectations of the user and the consequences of access control circumvention among other factors.

As described above access control is often relied upon to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive data and services. Generally it is necessary to select an appropriate type or form of access control based upon a balance of the type of computing system or device being protected the expectations of the user and the consequences of access control circumvention among other factors. Facial recognition may be relied upon at least in part as one manner of access control. However it is noted that some facial recognition access control techniques may be circumvented by merely presenting a photograph of an individual authorized for access. That is some facial recognition techniques cannot reliably distinguish between an authorized individual and a photograph of the authorized individual. This presents a particular problem in that access control by facial recognition may be circumvented using photographs or other display of an authorized individual.

In the context outlined above aspects of image capture challenge access are described herein. In one embodiment an access service of a computing device directs an imaging system to capture an image including facial fiducial features and determine whether the features correspond to an expected set of features. The access service may also issue a request for a response including for example a request to tilt or move the computing device move an individual s face or contort an individual s facial features. After the request for the response the access service may capture a response image. The response image may include an adjustment to facial fiducial features. The access service may further determine whether the adjustment to the facial fiducial features corresponds to the request. Depending upon whether the adjustment corresponds to the request the access service may permit or deny access to features of the computing device. Further to the extent necessary for robust access control a series of requests may be presented to the individual and the access service may analyze a response image for each request in the series until an adequate level of confidence in identification of the individual is confirmed. Using the techniques of image capture challenge access described herein it may be possible to more reliably distinguish between an authorized individual and a photograph of the authorized individual preventing the circumvention of facial recognition using photographs for example.

In the following paragraphs a general description of a representative system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

The computing device is representative of any processor based device or apparatus including but not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a wearable computing device a cellular telephone a camera a handheld gaming device a set top box a music or media player a tablet computer etc. As illustrated in the computing device may include an information integration data store user applications an access service an imaging system and device subsystems each of which is further described below.

Depending upon its primary purpose or function the device subsystems may include various subsystems or components such as but not limited to input subsystems output subsystems display subsystems data communications subsystems positioning or orientation subsystems etc. The input subsystems may include keyboards keypads touch pads touch screens microphones cameras buttons switches sensors global navigation satellite system GNSS etc. The output and display subsystems may include speakers ringers buzzers haptic feedback systems display screens indicator lights etc. The data communications subsystems may include cellular infra red IEEE 802.11 based WI FI Bluetooth or any other suitable or desirable data communications system or variant thereof. The positioning or orientation subsystems may include accelerometers gyroscopes etc. depending upon the primary purpose or function of the computing device . In part the computing device may be embodied as functional and or logic elements e.g. application specific or general computing circuitry processing circuitry computer readable instructions or any combination thereof that adapt configure or direct the computing device to perform aspects of the embodiments described herein.

The enterprise computing environment may be embodied as a computer computing device or computing system. In certain embodiments the enterprise computing environment may include one or more computing devices arranged for example in one or more server or computer banks. The computing device or devices may be located at a single installation site or distributed among different geographical locations. The enterprise computing environment may include a plurality of computing devices that together embody a hosted computing resource a grid computing resource and or other distributed computing arrangement. In some cases the enterprise computing environment may be embodied as an elastic computing resource where an allotted capacity of processing network storage or other computing related resources varies over time. In part the enterprise computing environment may be embodied as a virtual or virtualized computing environment. In general aspects of the embodiments the computing device may rely upon the enterprise computing environment for processing or storing data. For example to the extent necessary in certain embodiments the access service may be performed or executed at least in part in the enterprise computing environment . Further the feature data may be stored at least in part in a data store of the enterprise computing environment .

In other aspects of the embodiments the enterprise computing environment may be relied upon as a management service of the computing device and or other devices similar to the computing device . In this context the enterprise computing environment includes a management service and a management data store . The management data store includes one or more profiles . The management service may be configured to control operating aspects of the computing device with reference to the data stored in the profiles .

The profiles may contain profile configuration or compliance data and or rules for one or more individuals e.g. users of the computing device or groups of individuals e.g. employees of certain business units etc. for example. The profiles may store data related to enabling or disabling authorization mechanisms or certain features of the computing device . The configuration data of the profiles may include decryption keys that are unlocked or made available in the event that an individual passes the authorization mechanism presented by the access service as described herein. The credentials of the profiles may include username password and or token data which may be unlocked or made available for access to features protected by the access service in the event that an individual passes the authorization mechanism. The compliance rules of the profiles may include rules that define the enforcement of certain remedial actions in the event that that an individual fails the authorization mechanism after a threshold number of attempts.

On the basis of the data stored in the profiles the management service may be configured to control direct or modify one or more features or functions of the computing device . Similarly on the basis of the data stored in the profiles the management service may control direct or modify one or more resources available to the computing device . In this context the resources available to the computing device may include applications processing capability network connectivity etc. As another example the management service may be configured to enable or disable the access service or configure operating parameters or characteristics of the access service .

With regard to configuring operating parameters of the access service the management service may be configured to specify the type of image capture challenge access executed or performed by the access service . In other words the management service may be configured to specify whether the access service relies upon a request for a response an adjustment the optical system or a combination thereof as described herein when conducting image capture challenge access. Further the management service may be configured to specify or control the order in which requests are made by the access service during image capture challenge access the number of requests made by the access service during image capture challenge access the manner of adjustment of an attribute of image capture made by the access service during image capture challenge access etc. Thus by way of control of operating aspects of the access service the management service may be configured to control the manner in which access control to the computing device is achieved.

The network may include the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks cable networks satellite networks other suitable networks or any combinations thereof. It is noted that the computing device may communicate with other network elements including but not limited to the computing environment using various protocols such as hypertext transfer protocol HTTP simple object access protocol SOAP representational state transfer REST real time transport protocol RTP real time streaming protocol RTSP real time messaging protocol RTMP user datagram protocol UDP internet protocol IP transmission control protocol TCP and or any other suitable protocol for communicating data over the network without limitation. It is noted that the network may include connections to any number and type of network host such as website servers file servers cloud computing resources databases data stores or any other network or computing architectures.

In the computing device the user applications are representative of various applications executing on the computing device . When the computing device is embodied as a cellular telephone or tablet for example the user applications may include a contacts application a dialing application a short messaging service SMS application an Internet browser an e mail application etc.

The access service includes an access challenge engine and a feature analyzer . As described below in greater detail the access service may be relied upon to prevent unauthorized access to the computing device using one or more images captured by the imaging system . The imaging system includes an optical system a flash and an image sensor . The optical system may include one or more lenses and autofocus systems the flash may include any suitable device that provides light for capturing images in darker settings for example and the image sensor may include any suitable image capture sensor for capturing digital photographs or images. It is noted that the imaging system may include several optical systems flashes and image sensors on various sides e.g. front back etc. of the computing device . In some cases the image sensor may be embodied as an infrared image sensor or a thermal image sensor. The infrared image sensor may capture images including an indication of a source of infrared energy and the thermal image sensor may capture images including an indication of a source of heat. In either case the identification of the source of infrared energy or heat may be relied upon to identify or determine whether an individual was present during image capture for example as opposed to only a photograph of the individual.

Using the user applications a user of the computing device may access private or confidential data through the network . Further the user of the computing device may store private or confidential data as the private data . Similarly using the imaging system the user of the computing device may capture images that are private or confidential. It should be appreciated that the user of the computing device may access generate and store the private data using the computing device in various ways and for various purposes. This private data may include contact lists e mail personal or business documents or files photographs etc. Generally the private data may include any data that the user wishes to prevent unauthorized access to.

The user of the computing device may wish to prevent access to the data network the private data the user applications and other features of the computing device by unauthorized individuals. As discussed above various forms of access control may rely upon passwords software or hardware keys biometric keys multi factor authentication etc. In the context of image capture challenge access described herein before full access to the features of the computing device is permitted the computing device is configured to identify and verify that the user is authorized to access the computing device . In certain aspects of the embodiments the computing device is configured to identify and verify the user with reference to one or more images of the user . Thus as further described below the access service may operate with the imaging system to capture images of the user and verify that the user is authorized to access the computing device .

Generally according to the direction of the access service the computing device is configured to capture an image including facial fiducial features and determine whether the facial fiducial features correspond to an expected set of features. In this context facial fiducial features may include facial features of an individual such as the individual s chin nose eyes eyebrows skin coloring eye coloring hair coloring etc. any combination thereof relative positions thereof e.g. the center to center distance of the individual s pupils or relative differences or similarities therebetween. In one embodiment based on whether the facial fiducial features correspond to the expected set of features the computing device is further configured to issue a request for a response. The request for a response may include a request to tilt or move the computing device up or down a request to move an individual s face up or down or a request to move or contort an individual s facial features in a certain way for example. After making the request for the response the computing device is configured to capture a response image. Due in part to the request for the response the response image may include an adjustment to the facial fiducial features. Using the response image as a secondary reference image for facial recognition the computing device is further configured to determine whether the adjustment to the facial fiducial features corresponds to the request. Based on whether the adjustment to the facial fiducial features corresponds to the request the computing device is further configured to permit or deny access to a feature or application of the computing device .

Next a more detailed description of the operation of the computing device and more particularly the access challenge engine and the feature analyzer of the access service is provided with reference to .

With reference to the image the feature analyzer is configured to determine whether the facial fiducial features correspond to an expected set of features for the user . More particularly the feature analyzer may compare the facial fiducial features with an expected set of features for the user as stored in the feature data . In this context it is noted that data representative of the expected set of features for the user may be captured e.g. trained by the computing device and stored as the feature data during a facial recognition training period.

It is noted that the access service may capture the image of the user without making any particular request for a response from the user as further described below as a preliminary stage of facial recognition. Based on whether the facial fiducial features in the image correspond to the expected set of features stored in the feature data as determined by the feature analyzer the access control service may issue a request for a response from the user . In various embodiments the request for a response may include a request for the user to tilt or move the computing device up or down a request for the user to move his or her face up or down relative to the computing device or a request for the user to move or contort his or her facial features in a certain way for example among other requests. In other aspects of the embodiments the access control service may be configured to adjust an attribute of image capture and capture an adjusted image after the attribute of image capture is adjusted. In this context the adjusted attribute of image capture may include focus depth flash activity flash intensity or broad light activity broad light intensity or broad light color provided from a display of the computing device among other attributes.

Turning to example response images captured with adjusted facial fiducial features using the computing device in are illustrated. In the center image is similar to the image in . In contrast the left image and the right image are representative of response images and include at least one adjustment to the facial fiducial features of the user as compared to those features in the center image for example. also illustrates requests for responses . The request for response is representative of a request for the user to hold the computing device substantially horizontal and without tilt. To verify that the user is holding the computing device substantially horizontal the access service may reference feedback from one or more accelerometers gyroscopes etc. in the device subsystems for example to confirm the orientation of the computing device .

In contrast to the request for response the request for response is representative of a request for the user to tilt or move the computing device down or forward along the Y axis e.g. the direction of pitch and the request for response is representative of a request for the user to tilt or move the computing device up or backward along the Y axis e.g. the direction of pitch . Representative examples of tilting or moving the computing device forward and backward are provided at references and respectively. Alternatively the requests for responses and may be representative of a request for the user to tilt or move his head down or up e.g. the direction of pitch while maintaining the orientation of the computing device . To verify that the user is tilting or moving the computing device forward or backward the access service may again reference feedback from one or more accelerometers gyroscopes etc. in the device subsystems for example.

It should be appreciated that the requests for responses in are provided as representative examples only. The requests for responses are representative of one type of human perceptible request but others may be used. While the requests for responses are illustrated in as having a certain form e.g. vertical double arrows and crosshairs and provided on a display screen of the computing device other types of requests are within the scope of the embodiments. In other words the requests for responses may be displayed or provided to the user using other representative shapes or designs using text instructions audibly or using haptic feedback among other ways. Generally the requests for responses direct the user to capture one or more images having enhanced facial fiducial feature differentiation among the one or more images as described herein. In this context the requests for responses if followed by the user may result in a change in location of the facial fiducial features relative to the image sensor of the computing device . Additionally or alternatively the requests for responses if followed by the user may result in a change in the angle or shadowing of the facial fiducial features from a perspective of the image sensor .

After one of the requests for responses or for example is provided to the user using the display screen of the computing device the access challenge engine is configured to capture one or more of the response images or with the image sensor of the imaging system . As compared to the image in or the image in each of the response images and are expected to include an adjustment to the facial fiducial features of the user . In turn the feature analyzer is configured to determine whether the adjustment to the facial fiducial features corresponds to the request i.e. corresponds to one of the requests for responses or . More particularly the feature analyzer may compare the adjustment to the facial fiducial features of the user in one of the response images and with a set of expected adjustments stored in the feature data to determine whether the adjustment corresponds to the associated request for response or . In this context it is noted that data representative of one or more sets of expected adjustments corresponding respectively to certain requests for responses may be captured e.g. trained by the computing device and stored as the feature data during a facial recognition training period.

Here it is noted that the response images and in are representative and not drawn to scale to proportion or for accuracy in depicting adjustments to facial fiducial features. Instead it should be appreciated that based on the change in angle of the front facing camera when tilting or moving the computing device forward and backward as provided at references and respectively certain adjustments to or variations on the facial fiducial features of the user will be captured in response images. As some examples the adjustments may include one or more of a change in profile of at least one facial fiducial feature a change in shadow of at least one facial fiducial feature or a relative spatial change between at least two facial fiducial features. With regard to the change in profile of at least one facial fiducial feature the change in profile may be related to a change in angle of image capture. For example the change in profile may be attributed to a change in angle by which an image of a nose is captured e.g. front vs. side of nose . A change in shadow may be attributed to a relative change in size or direction of a shadow between two pictures taken at different angles. Further a relative spatial change between two or more facial fiducial features may also be attributed to a change in angle between two captured images. In some cases certain facial fiducial features may be blocked or disappear entirely depending upon the angle at which the image is captured.

It is noted that the feature analyzer is configured to distinguish between a photograph of an individual and the actual individual. Particularly because a photograph of an individual is generally flat and has no depth the feature analyzer may distinguish between adjustments in facial fiducial features captured from a photograph as compared to adjustments to facial fiducial features captured from the actual individual. In various embodiments the feature analyzer may be configured to distinguish between a photograph of an individual and the actual individual with reference to feature data stored in the feature data and or based on a comparison of multiple response images. In certain aspects and embodiments the feature analyzer may be configured to compare a response image or one or more pixels of the response image captured by the image sensor with a set of expected adjustments stored in the feature data to determine whether the adjustments to facial fiducial features correspond to one or more requests. Additionally or alternatively the feature analyzer may be configured to compare two response images to determine whether differences among them correspond to an expected changed based on one or more requests for responses.

Turning to other examples of response images captured with adjusted facial fiducial features using the computing device in are illustrated. In the center image is similar to the image in and the image in . In contrast the left image and the right image are representative of response images and include at least one adjustment to the facial fiducial features of the user as compared to those features in the center image for example. also illustrates requests for responses . The request for response is representative of a request for the user to hold the computing device substantially horizontal and without tilt. Again to verify that the user is holding the computing device substantially horizontal the access service may reference feedback from one or more accelerometers gyroscopes etc. in the device subsystems for example to confirm the orientation of the computing device .

In contrast to the request for response the request for response is representative of a request for the user to turn the computing device clockwise along the Z axis e.g. the direction of yaw and the request for response is representative of a request for the user to turn the computing device counterclockwise along the Z axis e.g. the direction of yaw . Representative examples of turning the computing device clockwise and counterclockwise are provided at references and respectively. Alternatively the requests for responses and may be representative of a request for the user to tilt or move his head right or left e.g. in the direction of yaw while maintaining the orientation of the computing device .

It should be appreciated that the requests for responses in are provided as representative examples only. The requests for responses are representative of one type of human perceptible request but others may be used. While the requests for responses are illustrated in as having a certain form e.g. horizontal double arrows and crosshairs and provided on a display screen of the computing device other types of requests are within the scope of the embodiments. In other words the responses may be displayed or provided to the user using other representative shapes or designs using text instructions audibly or using haptic feedback among other ways. Additionally it is noted that other requests for responses may request the user to tilt or move the computing device or his head clockwise or counterclockwise e.g. in the X direction of roll .

After one of the requests for responses or for example is provided to the user using the display screen of the computing device the access challenge engine is configured to capture one or more of the response images or with the image sensor of the imaging system . As compared to the image in or the image in each of the response images and is expected to include an adjustment to the facial fiducial features of the user . In turn the feature analyzer is configured to determine whether the adjustment to the facial fiducial features corresponds to the request i.e. corresponds to one of the requests for responses or . More particularly the feature analyzer may compare the adjustment to the facial fiducial features of the user in one of the response images and with a set of expected adjustments stored in the feature data to determine whether the adjustment corresponds to one of the associated requests for responses or . In this context it is noted that data representative of one or more sets of expected adjustments corresponding respectively to certain requests for responses may be captured e.g. trained by the computing device and stored as the feature data during a facial recognition training period.

Here it is noted that the response images and in are representative and not drawn to scale to proportion or for accuracy in depicting adjustments to facial fiducial features. Instead it should be appreciated that based on the change in angle of the front facing camera when turning the computing device clockwise or counterclockwise as provided at references and respectively certain adjustments to or variations on the facial fiducial features of the user will be captured in response images. As some examples the adjustments may include one or more of a change in profile of at least one facial fiducial feature a change in shadow of at least one facial fiducial feature or a relative spatial change between at least two facial fiducial features as outlined above.

It is again noted that the feature analyzer is configured to distinguish between a photograph of an individual and the actual individual. Particularly because a photograph of an individual is generally flat and has no depth the feature analyzer may distinguish between adjustments in features captured from the photograph as compared to adjustments to features captured from the actual individual. In various embodiments the feature analyzer may be configured to distinguish between a photograph of an individual and the actual individual with reference to feature data stored in the feature data and or based on a comparison of multiple response images. In certain aspects and embodiments the feature analyzer may be configured to compare a response image or one or more pixels of the response image captured by the image sensor with a set of expected adjustments stored in the feature data to determine whether adjustments to facial fiducial features correspond to one or more requests. Additionally or alternatively the feature analyzer may be configured to compare two response images or one or more pixels of the two response images to determine whether adjustments to facial fiducial features among the two response images correspond to one or more requests.

Before turning to it is noted that the requests for responses in in are provided by way of example and not limitation. Other requests associated with other responses are within the scope of the embodiments. For example requests to move the computing device in other directions or angles are within the scope of the embodiments. Similarly requests for the user to turn or move e.g. turn face to right turn face to left head up head down etc. are within the scope of the embodiments.

Referring again to the example adjusted images and in it is noted that in the adjusted image the point of focus or focus depth is beyond the nose of the user . In contrast in the adjusted image the point of focus or focus depth is at the nose of the user . Before capturing each of the adjusted images and the access challenge engine may be configured to adjust the optical system to a small aperture setting and adjust the focus point depth to different areas for example. By comparing the adjusted images and the feature analyzer may determine whether the subject being imaged has depth e.g. tip of nose extending out from face forehead etc. . In doing so the feature analyzer may distinguish between a photograph of the user and the user himself because a photograph would exhibit no depth. In other words as compared to the example adjusted images and illustrated in which exhibit variations in focus e.g. nose vs. forehead over different focus points images of a photograph would be expected to exhibit no variations. In other words either all or none of the image would be focused based on adjustments to the point of focus.

In other aspects the attribute of image capture adjusted by the access challenge engine may include flash activity e.g. using the flash flash intensity e.g. using the flash broad light activity e.g. using a display of the computing device broad light intensity e.g. using a display of the computing device or a color of broad light e.g. using a display of the computing device . More particularly by varying flash activity the access challenge engine may test the response of the skin or skin tone of the user to the use of the flash . In this context it is noted that the response of the skin or skin tone of the user to light or changes in intensity of light from the flash may differ from that of a photograph. Similarly by varying a broad light cast from a display of the computing device for example the access challenge engine may test the response of the skin or skin tone of the user to broad light. Here it is noted that the access challenge engine may direct the display of the computing device to display a full screen of white pixels at any suitable intensity as a broad light. Again the response of the skin or skin tone of the user to changes in the broad light may differ from that of a photograph. The challenge engine may also direct the display of the computing device to display a full screen of any color or combination of colors of pixels at any suitable intensity as the broad light and analyze the response of the skin or skin tone of the user to the color or combination of colors. As another alternative the access challenge engine may direct the display of the computing device to display a grid of illuminated lines of white pixels for example. In this case the lines may project a grid onto the face of the user and the grid may curve along with the depth of the facial features of the user . Such curvature would not be exhibited if an image was captured from a photograph.

It should be appreciated that the requests for responses and in are provided as representative examples only. While the requests for responses and are illustrated in as having a certain form e.g. double arrows and crosshairs and provided on a display screen of the computing device other types of requests for responses are within the scope of the embodiments. In other words the requests for responses and may be displayed or provided to the user using other representative shapes or designs using text instructions audibly or using haptic feedback among other ways. Further requests for responses as described herein may include a request for the user to blink his or her right left or both eyes to open or close his or her mouth pucker his or her lips etc.

Between each of the requests and adjustments the access challenge engine may direct the imaging system to capture a respective response image e.g. a still image where each respective response image includes a corresponding adjustment to one or more facial fiducial features of the user . The access challenge engine may also direct the imaging system to capture a several still images between or among the requests and adjustments where one or more of the still images include adjustments to features of the user . Additionally or alternatively the access challenge engine may direct the imaging system to capture video or video and audio during or overlapping with the requests and adjustments . Because the sequence is generated randomly by the access challenge engine for each access to the computing device it is unlikely that the sequence of adjustment to the facial fiducial features of the user could be expected or anticipated beforehand. Thus it is unlikely that a video including the sequence of adjustment according to the sequence could be captured and replayed in an effort to circumvent the access control provided by the access service . By referencing the respective response images among each other or with the feature data for example the feature analyzer may determine whether at least one corresponding adjustment to the facial fiducial features in the respective response images corresponds with at least one of the plurality of successive requests and adjustments . If the feature analyzer determines that the adjustments in the respective response images are consistent with the requests and adjustments the access service may permit access to the computing device .

At reference numeral the process includes capturing an image including a facial fiducial feature. For example before permitting access to the computing device by the user the access challenge engine of the access service may direct the imaging system to capture an image of the user using the imaging system . The image of the user may include one or more facial fiducial features as described above with reference to for example. At reference numeral the process includes determining whether the one or more facial fiducial features correspond to an expected set of features. That is consistent with the description above at reference numeral the feature analyzer of the access service may determine whether the facial fiducial features in the image captured at reference numeral correspond to an expected set of features stored in the feature data .

At reference numeral the process includes a branch to reference numeral if at reference numeral the facial fiducial features do not correspond to the expected set of features. In this case the access service may deny access to the computing device by the user . Alternatively if at reference numeral the facial fiducial features correspond to the expected set of features the process branches to reference numeral .

At reference numeral the process includes issuing a request for a response and or adjusting an attribute of image capture. For example the access service may issue a request for a response to the user or adjust an attribute of image capture using the imaging system as described above. In various embodiments reference numeral may include the access service issuing one request for a response issuing first and second requests for responses or issuing a plurality of successive requests for respective responses. Generally the one or more requests issued at reference numeral may include any of the requests described herein or variants thereof such as the requests in the requests in the requests and in or the successive requests in the sequence in . Additionally or alternatively reference numeral may include adjusting one or more attributes of image capture as described above with reference to .

After issuing the one or more requests and or adjusting one or more attributes of image capture at reference numeral the process includes capturing a response image and or an adjusted image at reference . In certain embodiments when reference numeral includes issuing a plurality of successive requests for respective responses the process may include capturing a respective response image for individual ones of the respective responses or adjusted image capture attributes at reference numeral . In this case each respective response image may include a corresponding adjustment to facial fiducial features. The capturing at reference numeral may be performed by the imaging system as directed by the access challenge engine of the access service for example.

At reference numeral the process includes determining whether the adjustment to the facial fiducial features captured at reference numeral corresponds to the request issued at reference numeral . In certain embodiments when reference numeral includes issuing a plurality of successive requests for respective responses reference numeral may include determining whether at least one corresponding adjustment to the facial fiducial features captured in reference numeral corresponds with at least one of the plurality of successive requests at reference numeral . As described above the determination of whether at least one corresponding adjustment to the facial fiducial features captured in reference numeral corresponds with at least one of the plurality of successive requests at reference numeral may be performed by the feature analyzer of the access service .

In some embodiments the determining at reference numeral may include calculating a difference between two images captured at different times. To this end the determining may include assessing a likelihood that the two images were captured from a photograph of an individual rather than captured from the individual himself. In this context the feature analyzer may calculate or evaluate a difference or similarity between the first and second images to determine whether the authorization mechanism of the access service has been satisfied. Such differences or similarities may be identified by inspecting the facial features of an individual among the images. Here as noted above the features may include but are not limited to the individual s chin nose eyes eyebrows skin coloring eye coloring hair coloring etc. any combination thereof relative positions thereof e.g. the center to center distance of the individual s pupils etc. Further in relatively high security sensitive embodiments a higher correlation threshold may be relied upon by the feature analyzer . On the other hand in relatively low security sensitive embodiments a lower correlation threshold may be relied upon by the feature analyzer .

At reference numeral the process includes a branch to reference numeral or reference numeral depending or based on whether the adjustment to the facial fiducial features captured at reference numeral corresponds to the request at reference numeral . In certain embodiments when reference numeral includes issuing a plurality of successive requests for respective responses the process includes a branch to reference numeral if at reference numeral at least one corresponding adjustment to the facial fiducial features captured at reference numeral does not correspond to at least one of the plurality of successive requests at reference numeral . In this case the access service may deny access to the computing device by the user . Alternatively if at reference numeral at least one corresponding adjustment to the facial fiducial features captured at reference numeral does correspond to at least one of the plurality of successive requests at reference numeral the process branches to reference numeral .

At reference numeral the process includes the access service permitting access to the computing device by the user . In other words at reference numeral the access service may selectively enable access to the computing device based on the image based verifications at reference numerals etc. Such image based verifications are generally directed to a conclusion as to whether an individual is physically present when capturing the images at reference numerals and based on a certain threshold of differentiation of facial fiducial features between the images for example. At reference numeral access may be provided to a particular feature or application of the computing device .

The image capture challenge access process may be relied upon to distinguish between a photograph of an individual and the actual individual. Particularly because a photograph of an individual is generally flat and has no depth the process may distinguish between adjustments in features captured from a photograph as compared to adjustments to features captured from the actual individual. In various embodiments the process may distinguish between a photograph of an individual and the actual individual with reference to feature data stored in the feature data and or based on a comparison of multiple response images as described herein. In certain aspects and embodiments the process may compare a response or adjusted image or one or more pixels of the response or adjusted image with a set of expected adjustments stored in the feature data to determine whether the adjustments to facial fiducial features correspond to one or more requests or adjustments. Additionally or alternatively the feature analyzer may be configured to compare two response or adjusted images to determine whether difference among them correspond to an expected changed based on one or more requests.

In various embodiments the memory stores data and software or executable code components executable by the processor . For example the memory may store executable code components associated with the user applications and the access service for execution by the processor . It should be appreciated however that the memory may store other executable code components for execution by the processor . For example an operating system may be stored in the memory for execution by the processor . Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C Objective C JAVA JAVASCRIPT Perl PHP VISUAL BASIC PYTHON RUBY FLASH or other programming languages. The memory may also store data such as the feature data and the private data .

As discussed above in various embodiments the memory stores software for execution by the processor . In this respect the terms executable or for execution refer to software forms that can ultimately be run or executed by the processor whether in source object machine or other form. Examples of executable programs include for example a compiled program that can be translated into a machine code format and loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor source code that can be expressed in an object code format and loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that can be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM magnetic or other hard disk drive solid state semiconductor or similar drive universal serial bus USB flash drive memory card optical disc e.g. compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory component. In various embodiments the memory may include both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components.

As discussed above the access service may be embodied in part by software or executable code components for execution by general purpose hardware. Alternatively the same may be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general specific and or dedicated purpose hardware. If embodied in such hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine for example that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits ASICs having appropriate logic gates field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowchart or process diagrams of are representative of certain processes functionality and operations of embodiments discussed herein. Each block may represent one or a combination of steps or executions in a process. Alternatively or additionally each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that includes program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that includes human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that includes numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as the processor . The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. Further each block may represent or be connected with a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement a certain logical function or process step.

Although the flowchart or process diagrams of illustrate a specific order it is understood that the order may differ from that which is depicted. For example an order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including the user applications and the access service that are embodied at least in part by software or executable code components may be embodied or stored in any tangible or non transitory computer readable medium or device for execution by an instruction execution system such as a general purpose processor. In this sense the logic may be embodied as for example software or executable code components that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. Thus the instruction execution system may be directed by execution of the instructions to perform certain processes such as those illustrated in . In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any tangible medium that can contain store or maintain any logic application software or executable code component described herein for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system.

The computer readable medium can include any physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of suitable computer readable media include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may include a RAM including for example an SRAM DRAM or MRAM. In addition the computer readable medium may include a ROM a PROM an EPROM an EEPROM or other similar memory device.

Further any logic or application s described herein including the access service may be implemented and structured in a variety of ways. For example one or more applications described may be implemented as modules or components of a single application. Further one or more applications described herein may be executed in shared or separate computing devices or a combination thereof. For example a plurality of the applications described herein may execute in the same computing device or in multiple computing devices in the same computing device . Additionally it should be appreciated that terms such as application service system engine module and so on may be used interchangeably and are not intended to be limiting.

Disjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y or Z unless specifically stated otherwise is to be understood with the context as used in general to present that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z or any combination thereof e.g. X Y and or Z . Thus such disjunctive language is not generally intended to and should not imply that certain embodiments require at least one of X at least one of Y or at least one of Z to be each present.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

