---

title: Techniques for graph based natural language processing
abstract: Techniques for graph based natural language processing are described. In one embodiment an apparatus may comprise a client service component operative on the processor circuit to receive a natural language user request from a device and to execute the natural language user request based on matched one or more objects and a social object relation component operative on the processor circuit to match the natural language user request to the one or more objects in an object graph, the object graph comprising token mappings for objects within the object graph, the token mappings based on data extracted from a plurality of interactions by a plurality of users of the network system, wherein the one or more objects are matched with the natural language user request based on the token mappings. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09589305&OS=09589305&RS=09589305
owner: FACEBOOK, INC.
number: 09589305
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141230
---
Natural language processing NLP may be desired to ease and make more intuitive for users the process of interacting with computers. If commands requests and other input to a computer program could be entered using the same language as might be used when speaking to another human being then this would lessen the burden on the human user of learning an interface for the program. Rather than a human accommodating the program by learning how to interact with it the program may accommodate the human by interacting with them the way humans interact with each other.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some novel embodiments described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview and it is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope thereof. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various embodiments are generally directed to techniques for graph based natural language processing. Some embodiments are particularly directed for graph based natural language processing leveraging language knowledge derived from social media interactions. In one embodiment for example an apparatus may comprise a client service component operative on the processor circuit to receive a natural language user request from a device and to execute the natural language user request based on matched one or more objects and a social object relation component operative on the processor circuit to match the natural language user request to the one or more objects in an object graph the object graph comprising token mappings for objects within the object graph the token mappings based on data extracted from a plurality of interactions by a plurality of users of the network system wherein the one or more objects are matched with the natural language user request based on the token mappings. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of the various ways in which the principles disclosed herein can be practiced and all aspects and equivalents thereof are intended to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Various embodiments are directed to techniques to use the knowledge about natural language that may be inferred from social media interactions to perform natural language requests on behalf of a user. A social networking system may contain a representation of individual people business entities items of commerce e.g. products services and other things. Users of the social networking system may interact with and reference these representations using natural language. These interactions and references may be used to infer what natural language tokens are associated in common usage with the referents of the representations. The understanding of the relationship between natural language tokens and things via the representations of the things within a social networking system may then be used to interpret a user request expressed in natural language and thereby used in the performance of a natural language request. Because the natural language learning may be performed on a data set generated by user of the social networking system as part of their normal interaction with the social networking system a vast amount of data about the use of natural language may be automatically generated. As a result the embodiments can improve the affordability of natural language learning the performance of natural language processing NLP and the ease of use of software that may benefit from interactions being performed using natural language.

Reference is now made to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the novel embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof. The intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the claimed subject matter.

It is worthy to note that a and b and c and similar designators as used herein are intended to be variables representing any positive integer. Thus for example if an implementation sets a value for a 5 then a complete set of components illustrated as components through may include components and . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

A mobile device may both be the preferred interface to an NLP interface with a computer system and a device for which an NLP interface is particularly preferable. The mobile device may have access to significant information about a user e.g. a current location a location history contacts that are not available or not typically associated with a stationary device such as a personal computer PC . The mobile device may have limited screen space and limited input methods a lack of a full keyboard etc. that restrict the creation of both intuitive and powerful visual user interfaces that represent programs abilities. The mobile device may therefore be improved by using a general interface based on text or voice commands that may be expressed in natural language.

Natural language commands may be particularly appropriate for the input of tasks oriented towards light weight interactions with businesses. For example the editing of a lengthy document may be sufficiently complex as to justify the use of a complex text editing interface. In contrast requests for simple business interactions may be simple enough to express in short natural language requests and fulfilled automatically on behalf of the user. Purchasing movie tickets reserving a table at a restaurant and arranging a cab ride for example may depend on only a few inputs a number of people an approximate time and a location. In particular the most complex part of processing these requests may consist of determining what type of provider and what specific provider of that type are appropriate for the requests. A request for Two tickets to see The Godfather around 7 00 pm may be served according to an existing electronic interface for purchasing movie tickets once a NLP system determines that The Godfather is a movie and what sorts of business provide tickets to see movies. As social media is frequently used in the discussion of every day business transactions and media consumption eating at restaurants seeing films etc. the language examples provided by a social networking system may be well suited to handling these sorts of requests.

A mobile device may communicate with server devices using wireless transmissions to exchange network traffic. Exchanging network traffic such as may be included in the performance of a user request may comprise transmitting and receiving network traffic via a network interface controller NIC . A NIC comprises a hardware component connecting a computer device such as mobile device to a computer network. The NIC may be associated with a software network interface empowering software applications to access and use the NIC. Network traffic may be received over the computer network as signals transmitted over data links. The network traffic may be received by capturing these signals and interpreting them. The NIC may receive network traffic over the computer network and transfer the network traffic to memory storage accessible to software applications using a network interface application programming interface API .

The mobile device may comprise a cellular interface for access to a cellular system and a Wi Fi interface for access to Wi Fi access points . The mobile device may access a cellular system using cellular signals . The cellular system may be a cellular network including data access. The mobile device may access one or more Wi Fi access points using Wi Fi signals . Wi Fi access points may be provided by a plurality of different operators. Some of the Wi Fi access points may be personal in nature such as a home Wi Fi network operated by the user of mobile device based on a domestic Internet connection. Some of the Wi Fi access points may be provided by business entities providing free complimentary or pay Wi Fi access in the public sphere.

A mobile device may be capable of receiving a natural language user request determining a solution to the user request and performing the solution to execute the user request using a local driven interaction with a business commerce front end server . The business commerce front end server may be a server providing automated access to user devices for the performance of commerce with the user. For example the business commerce front end server for a theater chain or movie ticket service may provide an API for purchasing movie tickets. The business commerce front end server for a restaurant or restaurant table reservation service may provide an API for reserving tables. The business commerce front end server for a taxi company may provide an API for scheduling rides.

In some cases the mobile device may be capable of interpreting the user request based solely on data stored locally to the mobile device . This data may include information generated on the device e.g. a location of the mobile device and may also include knowledge received from a social language server representing relationships between natural language tokens and objects representing business products services and other entities that may be cached on the mobile device . In these cases the user request may remain local to the device with the mobile device performing a locally driven interaction with the business commerce front end server .

In other cases the mobile device may be better served by using natural language data and entity data stored on or accessible to a social language server . The social language server may store or have access to a considerably larger amount of data related to businesses products and services and how those businesses products and services are referred to in natural language. As such the user request may be forwarded to the social language server for interpretation and the creation of a solution. In some embodiments the determined solution may be returned to the mobile device to allow the mobile device to perform a locally driven interaction executing the user request via the determined solution. In other embodiments the determined solution may be performed by the social language server by performing a server driven interaction executing the user request .

In either embodiment in various circumstances the mobile device may use either or both of the cellular system and the Wi Fi access points to communicate with the social language server . Similarly either or both of the cellular system and the Wi Fi access points may be used for interactions between the mobile device and the business commerce front end server .

The mobile device and or the social language server may use knowledge generated from interactions in a social networking system. As such natural language request system may include an authorization server or other suitable component s that allows users to opt in to or opt out of having their actions logged by natural language request system or shared with other systems e.g. third party systems for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. A privacy setting of a user may determine what information associated with the user may be logged how information associated with the user may be logged when information associated with the user may be logged who may log information associated with the user whom information associated with the user may be shared with and for what purposes information associated with the user may be logged or shared. Authorization servers or other authorization components may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of natural language request system and other elements of a social networking system through blocking data hashing anonymization or other suitable techniques as appropriate. For example while interactions between users of a social networking system and the social networking system may be used to learn natural language relationships these interactions may be anonymized prior to or as part of the learning process.

In particular embodiments a entity node may correspond to a user of the social networking service. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over the social networking service. In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with the social networking service the social networking service may create a entity node corresponding to the user and store the entity node in one or more data stores. Users and entity nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and entity nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and entity nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with the social networking service. In particular embodiments a entity node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including the social networking service. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide their name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a entity node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a entity node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with the social network service or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within the social networking service or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including the social networking service. As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to the social networking service. Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server. As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a entity node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system. The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing a client system to send to the social networking service a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message the social networking service may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a entity node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in object graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication the social networking service may send a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request the social networking service may create an edge connecting the first user s entity node to the second user s entity node in object graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more data stores. In the example of object graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between entity nodes of user Amanda and user Edwin and an edge indicating a friend relation between entity nodes of user Fred and user Mildred. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular entity nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship customer relationship user relationship fan relationship follower relationship visitor relationship subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in object graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a entity node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with entity node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at watched or used a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons the social networking service may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user Amanda may reserve a ride using a particular application SuperCar an illustrative mobile application for a taxi company SuperCar . In this case the social networking service may create a uses edge as illustrated in between entity nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the application to indicate that the user listened used the application. Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting entity nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting entity nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a entity node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a entity node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a entity node and a concept node .

In particular embodiments the social networking service may create an edge between a entity node and a concept node in object graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to send to the social networking service a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message the social networking service may create an edge between entity node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments the social networking service may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by the social networking service in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between entity node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments associated tokens may be associated with nodes. A token being associated with an entity node or concept node may indicate that the token describes the node. A node may be described as to the products it may provide the services it may provide or any other word indicating something that the entity represented by the node may provide. A node may be associated with a token comprise any word or words used with reference to the node. For example an entity node for a company GoCo providing taxi service may be described with the tokens taxi cab or ride. The association of a token with a entity node may be assigned by an administrator to describe the entity node . For instance an administrator may create or manage a page for the GoCo taxi company and assign the token taxi to the entity node . Alternatively or additionally the association of a token with an entity node may be assigned through machine learning based on user interactions with the social networking service. For instance users may comment on the GoCo company such as in messaging conversation or on a page for the company with sentences such as Got a great ride from GoCo First ride with GoCo went smoothly and other instances of the word ride being used in conjunction with GoCo promoting the natural language request system to learn that the GoCo company is associated with the concept of a ride as represented by the token ride. Thereafter the performance of requests containing the word ride may be based on information from the entity object for the GoCo company.

The user service component may be operative to receive a natural language user request on a mobile device . The natural language user request may be received as a text string an audio recording a video recording or according to any other technique for receiving input from a user. The natural language user request may be entered on a hardware or software keyboard device for the mobile device . The natural language user request may be captured by a microphone device for the mobile device . The natural language user request may be captured by a camera device for the mobile device . The user service component may pass the user request to one or both of a local object relation component and a remote object relation component .

The natural language user request may be received by a messaging program executing on the mobile device . The messaging program may be a general messaging program such as a messaging program for a social networking service. The messaging program may include user to user messaging functionality in which two or more users engage in a person to person conversation. The messaging program may include consumer to business messaging functionality in which a user may message with an automated or human representative for a business. A natural language user request may be detected in either of user to user or consumer to business messaging.

User to user messaging may include implicit prompts for a user request . For instance a first user may comment to a second user that they can make a restaurant reservation order movie tickets or otherwise initiate a commercial transaction. The user service component may detect an implicit prompt and offer to carry out the implicit user request to one or both of the users. The user service component may determine at least some of the participants in a service based on the participants in a user to user messaging conversation in which an implicit user request is detected. Information known about the participants in a messaging conversation may be used in the configuration of fulfilling a user request . For example user preferences inferred about or explicitly stated by any of the participants may be used in the selection of a service provider. The confidence in a selection of a type of service service provider e.g. business or any other element of fulfilling a request may be determined based on not only its association with the requesting user but on its association with other participants in a messaging conversation.

In some embodiments consumer to business messaging functionality may be performed through a general request entry interface in which the business being contacted is determined automatically by the natural language request system as part of fulfilling the request. A general request entry interface may change over to consumer to business messaging engaged as part of fulfilling a user request . For instance a user may request a doctor s appointment an initial stage of requesting an appointment may be performed automatically by the natural language request system and then the user may be placed into a messaging conversation with a representative for a selected doctor s office in order to carry out additional elements of making an appointment.

In some cases a consumer may select a business by engaging in a messaging conversation with an automated or human representative for the business. The user may select a favorite business a liked business search for a business browse a list of businesses or otherwise determine a business. The user may select to message with the business. A natural language user request may be detected in the messaging with the business. The natural language user request may be initiated and performed with the business with the business that the user selected for messaging being automatically selected to fulfill the user request based on the user s initiation of consumer to business messaging.

The local object relation component may relate the natural language user request to one or more local objects the one or more local objects stored on the mobile device . The local objects may be stored in a local object store local to the mobile device the local objects stored on the mobile device prior to the reception of the user request and not retrieved and stored in response to the user request . The local object store may comprise at least in part a cache of objects from an object graph of a social networking system. One or more of the local objects may comprise cached objects from the object graph . The local object store may also store objects not represented in the object graph and one or more of the local objects may comprise objects from the object store not represented in the object graph . One or more of the local objects may be retrieved from other sources on the mobile device other than the local object store . For example an object indicating a current location for the mobile device thereby inferring a location for the user of the mobile device may be retrieved from a geolocation component of the mobile device the geolocation component using one or more of global positioning system GPS detection Wi Fi detection cell site detection Bluetooth detection or any other technique for detecting a device s location.

The local objects may be retrieved or generated based on local data stored on the mobile device . Local data may include a contact list of other repository of names on the mobile device . For example a word or words that can be recognized as a proper noun or name may be matched against the contact list or other repository of names on the mobile device . Similarly other information in a contact list may be used in identifying entities such as where a phone number is specified in both the user request and the contact list. Further an association between an entry in a contact list and an object in the object graph may be confirmed or strengthened based on a common phone number being assigned to both. Proper nouns may be matched against geographically located entity and place names particularly geographically located entity and place numbers geographically proximate to the current location of the mobile device . Local data may include recent searches performed on the mobile device .

The local object relation component may determine a confidence level for each of the one or more local objects . The confidence level for an object may represent a degree of confidence that the object corresponds to the natural language meaning of a user request and that the object corresponds to the user s intent for the user request. A confidence level may be represented as a integer or real number. A confidence level may be represented as a probability the probability indicating a predicted likelihood of accuracy.

For example a user request based on the text input that they need a cab ride from here to the mall may assign an object representing the user s current location to a token based on here and may assign an object representing one mall of a plurality of malls to a token based on the mall. The particular mall may be selected according to one or more of including a combination of the user s location a location history for the user indicating one or more malls the user has visited user associations with malls and or stores in an object graph and other information related to which mall a user would consider the mall. The local object relation component may determine that the word here is strongly correlated with a user s current location and therefore has a high confidence level. The local object relation component may determine the words the mall corresponds to a service token of malls with a high degree of confidence but that due to little information or conflicting information about which specific mall is being referred to the attachment of a specific object corresponding to a specific mall has a low confidence level.

The natural language request system may have a defined confidence threshold distinguishing between objects assignments that are sufficiently confident to rely on an object relationship determined based on information local to the mobile device and object assignments that are insufficiently confident to rely on such an object relationship. The local object relation component may determine a low confidence local object of the one or more local objects wherein the confidence level for the low confidence local object is less than the defined confidence threshold. The low confidence local object having a confidence level less than the confidence threshold may indicate that the natural language request system will expand the search for objects to relate to the user request to include resources stored remotely from the mobile device such as on a social language server having access to the object graph for a social networking service.

The remote object relation component may transmit a network query to a network system the network query requesting that the network system match the natural language user request against an object graph . The network query may comprise the user request . The remote object relation component may receive a remote object to replace the low confidence local object from the network system in response to the network query. The remote object may be represented within the object graph for a social networking service. The network system may comprise a social networking system executing a social networking service with the object graph comprised at least in part of interlinked social networking objects.

The object graph may comprise token mappings for objects within the object graph wherein a token mapping defines a relationship between natural language words a semantic understanding of those words and objects that correlate with one or both of the natural language words and the semantic understanding of those words. The token mappings may be based on data extracted from a plurality of interactions of users of the network system wherein the remote object is matched with the natural language user request based on the token mappings. The token mappings may be generated based on a frequency with which the plurality of users associate tokens with the objects in the plurality of interactions. The plurality of interactions may comprise a plurality of natural language user requests from the plurality of users to the network system.

The token mappings may be generated based on a success rate for executions of the plurality of natural language user requests. The success rate may be based on an explicit reporting by users of the network system as to their satisfaction with the executions of the requests. The success rate may be based on the explicit behavior of a user in accepting or rejection the proposed execution of the user request such as where the user service component displays a proposed execution strategy to the user prior to execution and only executes the proposed execution strategy if the user approves. The success rate may be based on an implicit evaluation of user satisfaction with the executions of their requests which may be based on without limitation repeated use by the users of the language of the natural language requests repeated use by the users of the natural language request system for similar requests and other implication indications of a positive or negative reaction to the execution of a user request . The success rate may similarly be based on explicit or implicit signals from businesses as to their satisfaction with being used for the execution of the user request .

The token mappings may be based on bidding by business entities for associations between tokens and their business. For example a restaurant reservation service may bid to be associated with tokens such as table reservation dinner eat and other tokens related to the purchase and consumption of food. The natural language request system may be operative to determine its confidence in the association between an object for a business entity and a token based at least in part on an amount bid by the business entity for that association. As businesses learn based on their experience with the natural language request system what tokens best guide users to their business they may bid higher on those tokens and thereby improve the accuracy of the natural language request system .

The user service component may then execute the natural language user request based on the remote object . One or more of the local objects may also be used in the execution of the user request . One or more additional remote objects received from the social language server may also be used in the execution of the user request .

Executing the user request may include interacting with a business entity. The remote object received from the social language server may correspond to a business entity represented in the object graph . The remote object for the business entity may include automated interaction instructions for the business entity. Automated interaction instructions may comprise procedures APIs network addresses formats and other information for automated computerized request performance with a business commerce front end server for the business entity.

The user service component may receive the automated interaction instructions and execute the natural language user request by performing at least one of a purchase and a reservation with a network server for the business entity based on the received automated interaction instructions. The user service component may engage in a locally driven interaction with the business commerce front end server the locally driven interaction involving direct communication between the mobile device and the business commerce front end server for the business entity.

In some cases the natural language request system may be able to execute the user request without the use of an external business entity. Where the natural language request system includes messaging functionality and or social networking functionality the user request may be fulfilled through the performance of messaging services and or social networking services. For instance user interest in having an image video sticker or other element included in their messaging conversation may be detected based on a natural language user request and the execution of the user request may comprise the inclusion of this element. In some cases an image sticker or other element may be selected and suggested based on a correspondence between the text of a user s conversation and the element such as suggesting a sticker that illustrates the mood of the text. The text of a conversation may therefore comprise the natural language user request .

Similarly user interest in having a social networking task performed may be detected based on a natural language user request and the execution of the user request may comprise the performance of the social networking tasks. Social networking tasks may include making posts to a social networking service liking a post on a social networking service uploading media to a social networking service tagging a user as present at an event location or business or any other social networking activity.

Additional objects associated with the user request including one or more of the local objects and or one or more additional remote objects may be used in executing the user request . The additional objects may define information used in configuring the automated interaction instructions and may define information used in selecting options allowed by the automated interaction procedures performed using the automated interaction instructions. For example the automated interaction procedures for a taxi company may allow the specification of a desired time of pickup a pickup location and a drop off location. The object for the taxi company may define the automated interaction instructions for contacting the business commerce front end server . Those automated interaction instructions may indicate that a desired time of pickup a pickup location and a drop off location may be specified in some cases they may specify that one or more of the configuration options such as a drop off location may be optional and specified in person to the driver at time of pickup. Objects generated from the user request determined to relate to the time of pickup a pickup location and a drop off location may therefore be used specify those options. In some cases an object may be determined implicitly based on a lack of an explicit statement in a user request. For example a pickup time of now or as soon as possible may be inferred when a ride is requested without an explicit specification of a pickup time.

Both the execution of a user request and the mapping between the language of a user request and objects may be based on the location of the mobile device . The user service component may determine a current location of the mobile device . The user service component may execute the natural language user request based on the remote object and the current location of the mobile device such as through configuration of a locally driven interaction with a business commerce front end server in which one or more options of the locally driven interaction include or are derived from the current location of the mobile device . The user service component may alternatively transmit the current location of the mobile device to the network system e.g. the social language server where the received remote object selected from the plurality of objects of the object graph was based on a proximity to the determined current location. For example a service may be performed by a variety of different service providers with the specific service provider selected based at least in part on their being geographically close to the current location of the mobile device .

The client service component may receive a natural language user request from a mobile device . The client service component may receive the user request in a same form that it was received by the user service component of the mobile device or may receive the user request in a transformed format. For example a user request received as audio may be transcribed to text prior to transmission to the client service component . The natural language user request may be received from the mobile device in response to the mobile device performing object matching to local data on the mobile device and determining that the object matching generated at least one client matched object with a confidence level below a confidence threshold.

The social object relation component may match the natural language user request to one or more social objects in an object graph the object graph comprising token mappings for objects within the object graph the token mappings based on data extracted from a plurality of interactions by a plurality of users of the network system wherein the one or more objects are matched with the natural language user request based on the token mappings. In general the matching of the natural language user request by the social object relation component may correspond to the procedures of the matching of the user request performed by the local object relation component of the mobile device but with access to the additional data of a larger social object store rather than the more limited resources of the local object store .

The client service component may thereafter transmit the social objects to the mobile device . The execution of the user request may comprise this transmission of the matched one or more social objects to the mobile device for execution of the user request by the mobile device . The social objects may therefore correspond to the remote object received by the user service component of the mobile device . The social language server may be an element of a social networking service. The natural language user request may be received at a social networking system for the social networking service. The object graph may therefore comprise a graph comprised at least in part of interlinked social networking objects. The social networking system may comprise the network system. The token mappings may be generated based on a frequency with which the plurality of users associated token with the social objects in the plurality of interactions. This plurality of interactions may comprise a plurality of natural language user requests from the plurality of users to the network system with the token mappings generated based on a success rate for executions of the plurality of natural language user requests .

The social language server may use a current location of the mobile device in the determination of the social objects . The client service component may receive the current location of the mobile device from the mobile device and select the matched one or more social objects based on a proximity to a current location of the mobile device . For instance the social objects may be selected based on a proximity between the received current location and an address for a business entity recorded in the social object for the business entity.

As an alternative to returning the social objects to the mobile device for the execution of a locally driven interaction the client service component may execute the natural language user request based on the matched one or more social objects in a server driven interaction . The social language server may perform the server driven interaction with the business commerce front end server on behalf of the mobile device in order to conserve the processing bandwidth and energy resources of the mobile device . Where the user request will be performed via a server driven interaction the client service component may receive one or more local objects from the mobile device and use the local objects in the execution of the user request .

The social language server may use a current location of the mobile device in the performance of the user request . The current location may comprise one of the local objects received from the mobile device . The client service component may receive the current location of the mobile device from the mobile device and execute the natural language user request based on the matched one or more social objects and the current location of the mobile device .

The matched one or more social objects may include a business object corresponding to a business entity the business object represented in the object graph . The client service component may retrieve automated interaction instructions for the business entity based on the business. In some cases the automated interaction instructions may be stored within the business object. The client service component may execute the natural language user request by performing at least one of a purchase and a reservation with the business commerce front end server for the business entity based on the retrieved automated interaction instructions the performance of the purchase and or reservation comprising the server driven interaction .

Included herein is a set of flow charts representative of exemplary methodologies for performing novel aspects of the disclosed architecture. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the one or more methodologies shown herein for example in the form of a flow chart or flow diagram are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance therewith occur in a different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all acts illustrated in a methodology may be required for a novel implementation.

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the logic flow may receive a natural language user request on a mobile device at block .

The logic flow may relate the natural language user request to one or more local objects the local objects stored on the mobile device at block .

The logic flow may determine a low confidence local object wherein the confidence level for the low confidence local object is less than a confidence threshold at block .

The logic flow may transmit a network query to a network system the network query requesting that the network system match the natural language user request against an object graph at block .

The logic flow may receive a remote object to replace the low confidence local object from the network system in response to the network query the remote object represented within the object graph at block .

In the illustrated embodiment shown in the logic flow may receive a natural language user request from a mobile device at block .

The logic flow may match the natural language user request to one or more social objects in an object graph the object graph comprising token mappings for social objects within the object graph the token mappings based on data extracted from a plurality of interactions by a plurality of users of the network system wherein the one or more social objects are matched with the natural language user request based on the token mappings at block .

The logic flow may execute the natural language user request based on the matched one or more social objects at block .

The device may comprise any electronic device capable of receiving processing and sending information for the natural language request system . Examples of an electronic device may include without limitation an ultra mobile device a mobile device a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile computing device a smart phone a telephone a digital telephone a cellular telephone ebook readers a handset a one way pager a two way pager a messaging device a computer a personal computer PC a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a netbook computer a handheld computer a tablet computer a server a server array or server farm a web server a network server an Internet server a work station a mini computer a main frame computer a supercomputer a network appliance a web appliance a distributed computing system multiprocessor systems processor based systems consumer electronics programmable consumer electronics game devices television digital television set top box wireless access point base station subscriber station mobile subscriber center radio network controller router hub gateway bridge switch machine or combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The device may execute processing operations or logic for the natural language request system using a processing component . The processing component may comprise various hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include devices logic devices components processors microprocessors circuits processor circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA memory units logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs software development programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

The device may execute communications operations or logic for the natural language request system using communications component . The communications component may implement any well known communications techniques and protocols such as techniques suitable for use with packet switched networks e.g. public networks such as the Internet private networks such as an enterprise intranet and so forth circuit switched networks e.g. the public switched telephone network or a combination of packet switched networks and circuit switched networks with suitable gateways and translators . The communications component may include various types of standard communication elements such as one or more communications interfaces network interfaces network interface cards NIC radios wireless transmitters receivers transceivers wired and or wireless communication media physical connectors and so forth. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired communications media and wireless communications media. Examples of wired communications media may include a wire cable metal leads printed circuit boards PCB backplanes switch fabrics semiconductor material twisted pair wire co axial cable fiber optics a propagated signal and so forth. Examples of wireless communications media may include acoustic radio frequency RF spectrum infrared and other wireless media.

The device may communicate with mobile devices over a communications media using communications signals via the communications component . The plurality of mobile devices may comprise devices used by users of the natural language request system and or the social networking service. The signals transmitted over the media may correspond to the transmission of user requests to the client service component and the transmission of social objects to the mobile devices .

The distributed system may comprise a client service server devices and a graph search server devices . In general the client service server devices and the graph search server devices may be the same or similar to the server device as described with reference to . For instance the server devices may each comprise a processing component and a communications component which are the same or similar to the processing component and the communications component respectively as described with reference to . In another example the server devices may communicate over a communications media using communications signals via the communications components .

The client service server devices may comprise or employ one or more client programs that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the client service server devices may implement a plurality of client service components .

The graph search server devices may comprise or employ one or more server programs that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the graph search server devices may implement a plurality of social object relation components .

The server devices may communicate with the mobile devices using signals transmitted over media . The object graph may be stored in a plurality of social object stores the social object stores comprising a distributed database storing the object graph . The server devices may communicate with the social object stores using signals transmitted over media .

As used in this application the terms system and component are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution examples of which are provided by the exemplary computing architecture . For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical and or magnetic storage medium an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Further components may be communicatively coupled to each other by various types of communications media to coordinate operations. The coordination may involve the uni directional or bi directional exchange of information. For instance the components may communicate information in the form of signals communicated over the communications media. The information can be implemented as signals allocated to various signal lines. In such allocations each message is a signal. Further embodiments however may alternatively employ data messages. Such data messages may be sent across various connections. Exemplary connections include parallel interfaces serial interfaces and bus interfaces.

The computing architecture includes various common computing elements such as one or more processors multi core processors co processors memory units chipsets controllers peripherals interfaces oscillators timing devices video cards audio cards multimedia input output I O components power supplies and so forth. The embodiments however are not limited to implementation by the computing architecture .

As shown in the computing architecture comprises a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors including without limitation an AMD Athlon Duron and Opteron processors ARM application embedded and secure processors IBM and Motorola DragonBall and PowerPC processors IBM and Sony Cell processors Intel Celeron Core 2 Duo Itanium Pentium Xeon and XScale processors and similar processors. Dual microprocessors multi core processors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus provides an interface for system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. Interface adapters may connect to the system bus via a slot architecture. Example slot architectures may include without limitation Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and the like.

The computing architecture may comprise or implement various articles of manufacture. An article of manufacture may comprise a computer readable storage medium to store logic. Examples of a computer readable storage medium may include any tangible media capable of storing electronic data including volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of logic may include executable computer program instructions implemented using any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code object oriented code visual code and the like. Embodiments may also be at least partly implemented as instructions contained in or on a non transitory computer readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors to enable performance of the operations described herein.

The system memory may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more higher speed memory units such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory polymer memory such as ferroelectric polymer memory ovonic memory phase change or ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards an array of devices such as Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID drives solid state memory devices e.g. USB memory solid state drives SSD and any other type of storage media suitable for storing information. In the illustrated embodiment shown in the system memory can include non volatile memory and or volatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS can be stored in the non volatile memory .

The computer may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more lower speed memory units including an internal or external hard disk drive HDD a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD to read from or write to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive to read from or write to a removable optical disk e.g. a CD ROM or DVD . The HDD FDD and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a HDD interface an FDD interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The HDD interface for external drive implementations can include at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies.

The drives and associated computer readable media provide volatile and or nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For example a number of program modules can be stored in the drives and memory units including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . In one embodiment the one or more application programs other program modules and program data can include for example the various applications and or components of the natural language request system .

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wire wireless input devices for example a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices may include microphones infra red IR remote controls radio frequency RF remote controls game pads stylus pens card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors styluses and the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface and so forth.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adaptor . The monitor may be internal or external to the computer . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices such as speakers printers and so forth.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wire and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wire wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks for example a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network for example the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a wire and or wireless communication network interface or adaptor . The adaptor can facilitate wire and or wireless communications to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless functionality of the adaptor .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wire and or wireless device connects to the system bus via the input device interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with wire and wireless devices or entities using the IEEE 802 family of standards such as wireless devices operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. IEEE 802.10 over the air modulation techniques . This includes at least Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity WiMax and Bluetooth wireless technologies among others. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.10x a b g n etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wire networks which use IEEE 802.3 related media and functions .

As shown in the communications architecture comprises includes one or more clients and servers . The clients may implement the client device . The servers may implement the server devices . The clients and the servers are operatively connected to one or more respective client data stores and server data stores that can be employed to store information local to the respective clients and servers such as cookies and or associated contextual information. The clients may implement mobile devices including mobile device .

The clients and the servers may communicate information between each other using a communication framework . The communications framework may implement any well known communications techniques and protocols. The communications framework may be implemented as a packet switched network e.g. public networks such as the Internet private networks such as an enterprise intranet and so forth a circuit switched network e.g. the public switched telephone network or a combination of a packet switched network and a circuit switched network with suitable gateways and translators .

The communications framework may implement various network interfaces arranged to accept communicate and connect to a communications network. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Network interfaces may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and the like token ring wireless network interfaces cellular network interfaces IEEE 802.11a x network interfaces IEEE 802.16 network interfaces IEEE 802.20 network interfaces and the like. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types. For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and unicast networks. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and capacity distributed network controller architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by clients and the servers . A communications network may be any one and the combination of wired and or wireless networks including without limitation a direct interconnection a secured custom connection a private network e.g. an enterprise intranet a public network e.g. the Internet a Personal Area Network PAN a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network a cellular network and other communications networks.

The device may implement some or all of the structure and or operations for the natural language request system and or logic circuit in a single computing entity such as entirely within a single device. Alternatively the device may distribute portions of the structure and or operations for the natural language request system and or logic circuit across multiple computing entities using a distributed system architecture such as a client server architecture a 3 tier architecture an N tier architecture a tightly coupled or clustered architecture a peer to peer architecture a master slave architecture a shared database architecture and other types of distributed systems. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment radio interface may include a component or combination of components adapted for transmitting and or receiving single carrier or multi carrier modulated signals e.g. including complementary code keying CCK and or orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM symbols although the embodiments are not limited to any specific over the air interface or modulation scheme. Radio interface may include for example a receiver a transmitter and or a frequency synthesizer . Radio interface may include bias controls a crystal oscillator and or one or more antennas . In another embodiment radio interface may use external voltage controlled oscillators VCOs surface acoustic wave filters intermediate frequency IF filters and or RF filters as desired. Due to the variety of potential RF interface designs an expansive description thereof is omitted.

Baseband circuitry may communicate with radio interface to process receive and or transmit signals and may include for example an analog to digital converter for down converting received signals a digital to analog converter for up converting signals for transmission. Further baseband circuitry may include a baseband or physical layer PHY processing circuit for PHY link layer processing of respective receive transmit signals. Baseband circuitry may include for example a processing circuit for medium access control MAC data link layer processing. Baseband circuitry may include a memory controller for communicating with processing circuit and or a computing platform for example via one or more interfaces .

In some embodiments PHY processing circuit may include a frame construction and or detection module in combination with additional circuitry such as a buffer memory to construct and or deconstruct communication frames such as radio frames. Alternatively or in addition MAC processing circuit may share processing for certain of these functions or perform these processes independent of PHY processing circuit . In some embodiments MAC and PHY processing may be integrated into a single circuit.

The computing platform may provide computing functionality for the device . As shown the computing platform may include a processing component . In addition to or alternatively of the baseband circuitry the device may execute processing operations or logic for the natural language request system and logic circuit using the processing component . The processing component and or PHY and or MAC may comprise various hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include devices logic devices components processors microprocessors circuits processor circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA memory units logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs software development programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

The computing platform may further include other platform components . Other platform components include common computing elements such as one or more processors multi core processors co processors memory units chipsets controllers peripherals interfaces oscillators timing devices video cards audio cards multimedia input output I O components e.g. digital displays power supplies and so forth. Examples of memory units may include without limitation various types of computer readable and machine readable storage media in the form of one or more higher speed memory units such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory polymer memory such as ferroelectric polymer memory ovonic memory phase change or ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards an array of devices such as Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID drives solid state memory devices e.g. USB memory solid state drives SSD and any other type of storage media suitable for storing information.

Device may be for example an ultra mobile device a mobile device a fixed device a machine to machine M2M device a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile computing device a smart phone a telephone a digital telephone a cellular telephone user equipment eBook readers a handset a one way pager a two way pager a messaging device a computer a personal computer PC a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a netbook computer a handheld computer a tablet computer a server a server array or server farm a web server a network server an Internet server a work station a mini computer a main frame computer a supercomputer a network appliance a web appliance a distributed computing system multiprocessor systems processor based systems consumer electronics programmable consumer electronics game devices television digital television set top box wireless access point base station node B evolved node B eNB subscriber station mobile subscriber center radio network controller router hub gateway bridge switch machine or combination thereof. Accordingly functions and or specific configurations of device described herein may be included or omitted in various embodiments of device as suitably desired. In some embodiments device may be configured to be compatible with protocols and frequencies associated one or more of the 3GPP LTE Specifications and or IEEE 1202.16 Standards for WMANs and or other broadband wireless networks cited herein although the embodiments are not limited in this respect.

Embodiments of device may be implemented using single input single output SISO architectures. However certain implementations may include multiple antennas e.g. antennas for transmission and or reception using adaptive antenna techniques for beamforming or spatial division multiple access SDMA and or using MIMO communication techniques.

The components and features of device may be implemented using any combination of discrete circuitry application specific integrated circuits ASICs logic gates and or single chip architectures. Further the features of device may be implemented using microcontrollers programmable logic arrays and or microprocessors or any combination of the foregoing where suitably appropriate. It is noted that hardware firmware and or software elements may be collectively or individually referred to herein as logic or circuit. 

It should be appreciated that the exemplary device shown in the block diagram of may represent one functionally descriptive example of many potential implementations. Accordingly division omission or inclusion of block functions depicted in the accompanying figures does not infer that the hardware components circuits software and or elements for implementing these functions would be necessarily be divided omitted or included in embodiments.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression one embodiment or an embodiment along with their derivatives. These terms mean that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Further some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

With general reference to notations and nomenclature used herein the detailed descriptions herein may be presented in terms of program procedures executed on a computer or network of computers. These procedural descriptions and representations are used by those skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art.

A procedure is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. These operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It proves convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be noted however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to those quantities.

Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as adding or comparing which are commonly associated with mental operations performed by a human operator. No such capability of a human operator is necessary or desirable in most cases in any of the operations described herein which form part of one or more embodiments. Rather the operations are machine operations. Useful machines for performing operations of various embodiments include general purpose digital computers or similar devices.

Various embodiments also relate to apparatus or systems for performing these operations. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purpose or it may comprise a general purpose computer as selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. The procedures presented herein are not inherently related to a particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose machines may be used with programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these machines will appear from the description given.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow a reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed architecture. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and or methodologies but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the novel architecture is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

