---

title: Methods and systems for digitally counting features on arrays
abstract: Methods, systems and platforms for digital imaging of multiple regions of an array, and detection and counting of the labeled features thereon, are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582877&OS=09582877&RS=09582877
owner: Cellular Research, Inc.
number: 09582877
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141007
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 887 853 filed Oct. 7 2013 which application is incorporated herein by reference.

The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted electronically in ASCII format and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Said ASCII copy created on Nov. 5 2014 is named 41977 711.201 SL.txt and is 255 804 bytes in size.

Array technologies have been widely used in biomedical studies for the detection of biomolecules and profiling of gene expression levels etc. Arrays are typically comprised of immobilized probes which can bind to or hybridize with target molecules in a sample. Detection of binding or hybridization events is often achieved through the use of optical labels e.g. fluorophores and scanning or imaging techniques e.g. fluorescence scanning or imaging . A feature on an array is a small region of immobilized probes that are specific for a given target molecule e.g. probes that hybridize to specific DNA or RNA sequences. Identifying the pattern of labeled features on a hybridized array thus provides information about specific molecules e.g. DNA or RNA molecules in the sample which in turn can provide valuable data in biomedical studies. Two important engineering requirements for providing high quality quantitative data for biomedical investigations are i to correctly image the hybridized arrays and ii to correctly analyze the images to extract quantitative data. Existing optical imaging systems typically image one region of an array at a time which can be a slow process if a number of different regions need to be imaged. In addition current methods of image analysis typically determine a signal intensity level i.e. an analog quantity for each array feature. Intensity level measurements are often subject to a variety of instrumental drift and analysis errors therefore improved methods for determining whether or not target molecules are bound to a given array feature and improved methods for transforming that data into quantitative measures of the number of target molecules present in a sample are of great importance to expanding the use of array technologies in biomedical applications.

The methods systems and platforms of the present disclosure provide means for digital counting of labeled features on arrays and thereby enable quantitative determination of the number of target molecules present in a sample through the use of stochastic labeling techniques.

In some embodiments an array reader system comprising an output unit for calculating an absolute number of target molecules in a sample is described wherein the array reader system is configured to read an array comprising a plurality of labeled and non labeled features. In some embodiments the array reader system may further comprise an optical imaging system. In some embodiments the calculation of absolute number of target molecules in a sample is based on transforming optical image data produced by the optical imaging system into a count of the number of labeled and non labeled features on an array. In some embodiments the output unit comprises a digital processor and executable software wherein the executable software comprises computer code for transforming optical image data into a count of the number of labeled and non labeled features. In some embodiments the array comprises a microarray microscope slide or microwell plate.

In some embodiments of the disclosed array reader system the optical imaging system has a magnification of less than 1 equal to 1 or greater than 1. In some embodiments the optical imaging system comprises a fluorescence imaging system. In some embodiments the optical imaging system comprises a phosphorescence imaging system. In some embodiments the optical imaging system comprises an imaging system that operates in a transmitted light reflected light or scattered light imaging mode or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the optical imaging system comprises one or more image sensors wherein the one or more image sensors have a resolution of at least 320 240 pixels. In some embodiments the one or more image sensors are CCD image sensors while in some embodiments the one or more image sensors are CMOS image sensors. In some embodiments the one or more image sensors comprise one or more circuit boards. In some embodiments the optical imaging system further comprises one or more components selected from the group including but not limited to a microscope objective a camera lens a finite conjugate lens an infinite conjugate lens a plano convex lens a double convex lens a plano concave lens a double concave lens an achromatic cemented doublet or a bandpass filter. In some embodiments the optical imaging system comprises a fluorescence imaging system that is designed for use with fluorescein Cy3 Cy5 or phycoerythrin fluorophores. In some embodiments the optical imaging system further comprises an illumination system including at least one light source wherein the at least one light source is an LED or LED assembly. In some embodiments the at least one light source is electronically synchronized with the image sensor the at least one light source being turned on when the image sensor is acquiring an image and turned off when the image sensor is not acquiring an image.

In some embodiments of the disclosed array reader system the illumination system is an off axis illumination system that satisfies the Scheimpflug condition. In some embodiments the illumination system is an off axis illumination system does not satisfy the Scheimpflug condition. In some embodiments the illumination system is an off axis illumination subsystem comprising a Kohler illumination system. In some embodiments the illumination system is an off axis illumination system comprising an Abbe illumination system. In some embodiments the illumination system is an epi illumination system comprising a Kohler illumination system. In some embodiments the illumination system is an epi illumination system comprising an Abbe illumination system. In some embodiments the illumination system is a trans illumination system comprising a Kohler illumination system. In some embodiments the illumination system is a trans illumination system comprising an Abbe illumination system.

In some embodiments of the disclosed array reader system the optical imaging system further comprises a translation stage wherein the translation stage is a single axis translation stage a dual axis translation stage or a multi axis translation stage.

In some embodiments of the disclosed array reader system the optical imaging system and output unit are combined within a single stand alone instrument. In some embodiments the optical imaging system and output unit are configured as separate instrument modules.

In some embodiments of the disclosed array reader system the executable software automatically locates features of the array within the acquired image. In some embodiments the executable software also performs local background correction by i centering a predefined analysis window on each array feature within an image ii calculating an intensity value statistic for signal and background pixels according to a predefined pattern of pixels within the feature and iii utilizing the signal and background intensity value statistics to calculate a background corrected signal intensity value for each feature.

In some embodiments of the disclosed array reader system the executable software performs a k means clustering analysis of the background corrected signal intensity values for the complete set of array features thereby determining a dynamic signal intensity threshold for discrimination between labeled and non labeled features of the array. In some embodiments the executable software also performs a k medoids clustering analysis of the background corrected signal intensity values for the complete set of array features thereby determining a dynamic signal intensity threshold for discrimination between labeled and non labeled features of the array. In some embodiments the executable software also performs a mixture model statistical analysis of the background corrected signal intensity values for the complete set of array features thereby determining a dynamic signal intensity threshold for discrimination between labeled and non labeled features of the array. In some embodiments the executable software also performs an empirical analysis based on sorting of background corrected signal intensity values for the complete set of array features thereby determining a dynamic signal intensity threshold for discrimination between labeled and non labeled features of the array. In some embodiments the executable software also performs an empirical analysis based on sorting of pairwise differences in background corrected signal intensity values for the complete set of array features thereby determining a dynamic signal intensity threshold for discrimination between labeled and non labeled features of the array. In some embodiments the executable software module also performs one or more statistical analyses of the background corrected signal intensity values for the complete set of array features thereby determining a dynamic signal intensity threshold for discrimination between labeled and non labeled features of the array and wherein the one or more statistical analyses are selected from the list including but not limited to k means clustering k medoids clustering mixture model statistical analysis or an empirical analysis.

In some embodiments of the disclosed array reader system the executable software calculates the absolute number of target molecules in a sample based on the number of labeled and non labeled features detected and the predictions of the Poisson distribution. In some embodiments the executable software also calculates a confidence interval for the number of target molecules.

Also disclosed herein is a digital imaging platform comprising a an optical instrument configured to generate an image of one or more regions of an array wherein the array comprises a plurality of features comprising oligonucleotide probes and wherein the oligonucleotide probes are complementary to a set of labels and b a digital processor wherein the digital processor is configured to perform image analysis comprising i transforming background corrected signal intensities for a plurality of features to produce binary output data that determines the number of labeled and non labeled features in the one or more regions of the array and ii calculating a number of target molecules present in a sample based on the number of labeled and non labeled features detected within the one or more regions of the array. In some embodiments the image analysis further comprises automatically locating the features of the array within the image. In some embodiments the image analysis further comprises correcting a signal intensity for each feature for a local background intensity. In some embodiments the image analysis further comprises performing one or more statistical analyses of the corrected signal intensities for a plurality of features to define one or more dynamic signal intensity thresholds for the one or more regions of the array where the statistical analyses are selected from the list including but not limited to k means clustering k medoids clustering mixture model statistical analysis or an empirical analysis. In some embodiments the calculation of the number of target molecules present in a sample is based on both the number of labeled and non labeled features detected within the one or more regions of the array and on the predictions of the Poisson distribution.

Disclosed herein is an imaging platform comprising a an optical instrument configured to generate an image of one or more regions of an array wherein the array comprises a plurality of features and wherein the plurality of features comprise a set of oligonucleotide probes and wherein the oligonucleotide probes are complementary to a set of labels and b a processor configured to perform image analysis wherein the image analysis comprises i reading the image generated by the optical instrument ii locating the features of the array within the image iii measuring a signal intensity for each feature iv measuring a local background intensity for each feature v calculating a local background corrected signal intensity for each feature using the signal intensity and local background intensities vi analyzing the local background corrected signal intensities for the complete set of features to determine a dynamic signal intensity threshold for discriminating between labeled and non labeled features and vii calculating a number of target molecules present in a sample based on the number of labeled and non labeled features detected and the predictions of the Poisson distribution. In some embodiments the image generated by the optical instrument is a fluorescence image. In some embodiments the image generated by the optical instrument is a phosphorescence image. In some embodiments the image generated by the optical instrument is a transmitted light reflected light or scattered light image. In some embodiments the image analysis further comprises reading an image that has been previously acquired and stored in a memory device. In some embodiments locating the features of the array within the image comprises identifying predefined fiducial features on the array. In some embodiments the calculation of a local background corrected signal intensity is performed by i centering a predefined analysis window on each feature within the image ii calculating an intensity value statistic for signal and background pixels according to a predefined pattern of pixels within the feature and iii utilizing the signal and background intensity value statistics to calculate a local background corrected signal intensity for each feature. In some embodiments the intensity value statistic used for calculating a local background corrected signal intensity for each feature is selected from the list including but not limited to the mean the median or the ratio of signal to background intensities. In some embodiments the analyzing of local background corrected signal intensities for the complete set of features to determine a dynamic signal intensity threshold comprises performing one or more statistical analyses selected from the list including but not limited to k means clustering k medoids clustering mixture model statistical analysis or an empirical analysis. In some embodiments the analyzing of local background corrected signal intensities for the complete set of features to determine a dynamic signal intensity threshold comprises fitting a model function to the intensity data by varying model parameters. In some embodiments the analyzing of local background corrected signal intensities for the complete set of features to determine a dynamic signal intensity threshold comprises maximizing a quality metric relating to a statistical difference between intensities above the threshold and below the threshold.

Also disclosed herein is a non transitory computer readable medium storing a program that calculates a number of labeled features on an array wherein the array comprises a plurality of feature sets and wherein individual features of a feature set comprise a set of oligonucleotide probes that are capable of hybridizing to a set of labels the non transitory computer readable medium comprising a computer code that locates individual features of the array within a digital image of the array b computer code that performs a local background correction of a signal intensity for each feature c computer code that analyzes the corrected signal intensity data for the complete set of features and determines a corrected signal intensity threshold and d computer code that transforms the corrected signal intensity for each feature into binary output data thereby providing a count of the number of labeled features on the array. In some embodiments the computer code for locating individual features of the array within the digital image comprises identifying predefined fiducial features on the array. In some embodiments the computer code for performing a local background correction of signal intensity for each feature comprises a calculation utilizing a statistic for signal and background intensities selected from the list including but not limited to the mean the median or the ratio of signal to background intensities. In some embodiments the computer code for analyzing corrected signal intensities for the complete set of features to determine a corrected signal intensity threshold comprises performing one or more statistical analyses selected from the list including but not limited to k means clustering k medoids clustering mixture model statistical analysis or an empirical analysis.

Also disclosed herein is a computer implemented method for performing local background correction of array signal intensity data the method comprising a centering a predefined data analysis window on a feature within a digital image of the array b calculating an intensity value statistic for signal and background pixels according to a predefined pattern of pixels within or around the array feature and c utilizing the signal and background intensity value statistics to calculate a background corrected signal intensity for the array feature. In some embodiments the computer implemented method further comprises automatically locating the array feature using a predefined set of fiducial features on the array. In some embodiments the intensity value statistic used for calculation of a background corrected signal intensity is selected from the list including but not limited to the mean the median or the ratio of signal to background intensities.

Disclosed herein is a computer implemented method for determining a dynamic image intensity threshold for use in discriminating between labeled and non labeled features on an array comprising a plurality of labeled and non labeled features the computer implemented method comprising a measuring image intensity data for each feature of the array b performing a local background correction on the image intensity data for each feature on the array and c performing one or more statistical analyses of the background corrected image intensity data for the complete set of array features thereby determining a dynamic image intensity threshold for discrimination between labeled and non labeled features of the array and wherein the one or more statistical analyses are selected from the list including but not limited to k means clustering k medoids clustering mixture model statistical analysis or an empirical analysis.

Also disclosed is a mechanism comprising a a closure b a housing which magnetically holds the closure in a first position and c a translation stage which magnetically holds the closure in a second position. In some embodiments the mechanism further comprising a gasket positioned between the closure and the housing. In some embodiments the gasket is attached to the closure. In some embodiments the gasket is attached to the housing. In some embodiments the closure and housing are substantially opaque and the gasket creates a substantially light tight seal between the closure and the housing in the first position. In some embodiments one or more magnets are positioned to hold the closure onto the housing in the first position. In some embodiments one or more magnets are positioned to hold the closure onto a first surface of the translation stage in the second position. In some embodiments two or more pairs of mating locating features to align the closure with the translation stage in the second position. In some embodiments two or more pairs of mating locating features to align the closure with the housing in the first position. In some embodiments the pairs of mating locating features comprise conical pins and conical holes. In some embodiments the housing comprises an optical instrument. In some embodiments the translation stage includes a sample holder. In some embodiments the sample holder is designed to hold a microscope slide a microarray or a microwell plate. In some embodiments the closure is not hinged. In some embodiments the closure is not attached to either the housing or the translation stage through the use of fasteners such as screws or clips. In some embodiments the closure is not attached to either the housing or the translation stage through the use of an adhesive.

Array technologies have been widely used in biomedical studies for the detection of biomolecules and profiling of gene expression levels etc. Arrays are typically comprised of immobilized probes which can bind to or hybridize with target molecules in a sample. Detection of binding or hybridization events is often achieved through the use of optical labels e.g. fluorophores and scanning or imaging techniques e.g. fluorescence scanning or imaging . A feature on an array is a small region of immobilized probes that are specific for a given target molecule e.g. probes that hybridize to specific DNA or RNA sequences. Identifying the pattern of labeled features on a hybridized array thus provides information about the presence of specific molecules e.g. DNA or RNA molecules in the sample which in turn can provide valuable data in biomedical studies. Two important engineering requirements for providing high quality quantitative data for biomedical investigations are i to correctly image the hybridized arrays and ii to correctly analyze the images to extract quantitative data. Existing optical imaging systems typically image one region of an array at a time which can be a slow process if a number of different regions need to be imaged. In addition current methods of image analysis typically determine an analog signal intensity level i.e. a signal that can have any value between some minimum and maximum values that are determined by various instrumental and experimental parameters for each array feature. Analog intensity level measurements are often subject to a variety of instrumental drift and analysis errors therefore improved methods for determining whether or not target molecules are bound to a given array feature and improved methods for transforming that data into quantitative measures of the number of target molecules present in a sample are of great importance to expanding the use of array technologies in biomedical applications.

The advantages of the methods systems and platforms disclosed herein include i simultaneous imaging of multiple regions of an array for higher throughput image acquisition and ii improved methods for reduction of image data to a digital determination of the presence or absence of bound target molecules or target molecule labels for each feature of an array thereby providing for improved quantitation in some types of array experiments for example those utilizing a set of stochastic labels for quantifying the number of target molecules present in a sample. The use of stochastic labeling techniques is described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 835 358 and PCT application US2011 065291 which are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference. In addition to providing a means for more quantitative detection of target molecules the use of stochastic labeling techniques allows for mitigation of amplification bias in assays involving nucleic acid amplification.

Accordingly disclosed herein are methods devices systems and platforms for digital counting of labeled features on arrays comprising i optical instruments configured to form images of one or more regions of an array ii arrays comprising a plurality of features further comprising a plurality of probes and wherein one or more regions of an array may comprise one or more sub arrays and wherein the arrays or sub arrays are designed for use with sets of stochastic labels and iii computer implemented methods for receiving input image data locating array features within array images correcting the signal intensity values associated with each feature for local background intensity values determining dynamic signal intensity thresholds for the one or more array regions by performing statistical analyses of the corrected signal intensity data for a plurality of features counting the number of labeled and non labeled features on the one or more regions of the array by comparing corrected signal intensity data for the features to signal intensity thresholds and calculating the number of target molecules in a sample for one or more target molecule species from the number of labeled and non labeled features detected on the one or more regions of the array.

In some embodiments systems are described which comprise i an optical instrument or reader configured to form images of one or more regions of an array ii a digital processor configured to perform executable instructions and store data in memory devices and iii computer code for performing image analysis in order to transform image data into a digital count of the number of labeled and non labeled features on the one or more regions of the array. In some embodiments the computer code further comprises performing a calculation of the number of target molecules in a sample for one or more target molecule species from the number of labeled and non labeled features detected on the one or more regions of the array.

In some embodiments platforms are described which comprise i arrays designed for use in stochastic labeling experiments wherein the arrays comprise a plurality of features further comprising a plurality of probes and wherein one or more regions of an array may comprise one or more sub arrays and wherein the arrays or sub arrays are designed for use with sets of stochastic labels ii an optical instrument or reader configured to form images of one or more regions of an array iii a digital processor configured to perform executable instructions and store data in memory devices and iv computer code for performing image analysis in order to transform image data into a digital count of the number of labeled and non labeled features on the one or more regions of the array. In some embodiments the computer code further comprises performing a calculation of the number of target molecules in a sample for one or more target molecule species from the number of labeled and non labeled features detected on the one or more regions of the array.

In some embodiments software applications or computer code products are described that determine the number of labeled features on an array wherein the software application includes code for performing one or more of the following computer implemented methods i receiving input image data ii locating array features within array images iii correcting the signal intensity values associated with each feature for local background intensity values iv determining dynamic signal intensity thresholds for the one or more array regions by performing statistical analyses of the corrected signal intensity data for a plurality of features v counting the number of labeled and non labeled features on the one or more regions of the array by comparing corrected signal intensity data for the features to signal intensity thresholds and vi calculating the number of target molecules in a sample for one or more target molecule species from the number of labeled and non labeled features detected on the one or more regions of the array.

In some embodiments computer implemented methods are described for performing local background correction of array signal intensity data the methods comprising i centering a predefined data analysis window on each array feature within a digital image of the array ii calculating mean or median intensity values for signal and background pixels according to a predefined pattern of pixels within or around each array feature and iii subtracting the mean or median background intensity from the mean or median signal intensity to determine a background corrected signal intensity value for each array feature.

In some embodiments computer implemented methods are described for determining dynamic image intensity thresholds from the corrected image intensity data for a plurality of features on an array the methods comprising i collecting image intensity data for each feature of the array ii optionally performing a local background correction on the image intensity data for each feature on the array and iii performing one or more statistical analyses of the background corrected image intensity data for the complete set of array features thereby determining a dynamic image intensity threshold for discrimination between labeled and non labeled features of the array. In some embodiments the one or more statistical analyses are selected from the list including but not limited to k means clustering k medoids clustering mixture model statistical analysis or empirical analyses based on sorting of image intensity values or pairwise differences in image intensity values. As used herein the term dynamic intensity threshold refers to a parameter that is determined based on an analysis of data derived from the experiment in progress. The use of a dynamic image intensity threshold for discrimination between labeled and non labeled features of an array helps to minimize or eliminate errors in data processing that may arise from instrumental drift or experimental procedure.

Unless otherwise defined all technical terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art in the field to which this disclosure belongs. As used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Any reference to or herein is intended to encompass and or unless otherwise stated.

As used herein the terms system and platform are used interchangeably. Similarly the terms image sensor imaging sensor sensor chip and camera are used interchangeably to describe two dimensional photosensors used for imaging purposes and the use of the terms image intensity and signal intensity are also used interchangeably in describing data analysis methods. Finally unless otherwise stated the terms software software application software module computer program and computer code are also used interchangeably.

The use of stochastic labeling techniques is described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 835 358 and PCT application US2011 065291 which are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.

Briefly high sensitivity single molecule digital counting may be achieved through the stochastic labeling of a collection of identical target molecules. Each copy of a target molecule is randomly labeled using a large non depleting reservoir of unique labels. The uniqueness of each labeled target molecule is determined by the statistics of random choice and depends on the number of copies of identical target molecules in the collection compared to the diversity of labels. The size of the resulting set of labeled target molecules is determined by the stochastic nature of the labeling process and analysis of the number of labels detected then allows calculation of the number of target molecules present in the original collection or sample. When the ratio of the number of copies of a target molecule present to the number of unique labels is low the labeled target molecules are highly unique i.e. there is a very low probability that more than one target molecule will have been labeled with a given label and the digital counting efficiency is high. This stochastic metholodology transforms the problem of counting molecules from one of locating and identifying identical molecules to a series of yes no digital questions regarding detection of a set of predefined labels. In some embodiments the labeled products are detected by means of DNA sequencing. In other embodiments the labeled products for one or more target molecules of choice are detected with high specificity using the array readout systems described herein.

Disclosed herein are arrays designed for use in stochastic counting of one or more target molecules in a sample. Arrays provide a means of detecting the presence of labeled target molecules wherein the labels comprise a large and diverse set of unique labels.

In many embodiments arrays comprise a plurality of features or spots on the surface of a substrate wherein each feature further comprises a plurality of attached probes. In some embodiments the array may comprise one or more regions each of which may comprise a plurality of features or sub arrays. For example an array may comprise 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more regions or alternatively an array may comprise 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 or more regions. In some embodiments an array may comprise 60 70 80 90 100 or more regions. In other embodiments an array may comprise hundreds thousands or tens of thousands of regions.

Non limiting examples of arrays include microtiter plates microwell plates 16 well microscope slides spotted microarrays or microarrays fabricated by in situ solid phase synthesis. A region of an array may comprise one well of a 16 well microscope slide one well of a glass bottomed 96 well plate or one well of a glass bottomed 384 well plate. Alternatively a region of an array may comprise more than one well for example in some embodiments a region may comprise 2 adjacent wells 4 adjacent wells or a larger number of wells positioned in close proximity to each other. In some embodiments the arrays may comprise high density oligonucleotide arrays with more than 1 000 features per square millimeter and a region on the array may comprise a selected area of the array substrate surface for example an area of approximately 1 mm 1 mm.

As indicated previously in many embodiments the set of probes attached to a set of features of an array are selected for detection of a specific set of unique labels designed for use in stochastic labeling studies. The attachment of the probes to the array substrate may be covalent or non covalent and permanent or temporary. A probe may be a sequence of monomers including but not limited to for example deoxy ribonucleotides ribonucleotides amino acids or synthetic monomers or they may be a sequence of oligomers including but not limited to for example oligonucleotides e.g. DNA or RNA sequences or peptide sequences. In some cases a probe may be a macromolecule including but not limited to for example antibodies or antibody fragments. Each feature on an array corresponds to a small area of the array substrate comprising immobilized probes having the same molecular sequence that bind to or hybridize with the same target molecule. Two or more features on the array may be identical similar or different. In many embodiments arrays will include one or more fiducial marks used for alignment or orientation purposes as well as positive and negative control features in addition to feature sets used for detection of a stochastic label set. Positive control features may comprise probes that bind to or hybridize with molecules known to be always present in a sample or probes that bind to or hybridize with molecules spiked into a sample in a controlled fashion. Negative control features may comprise probes that are specific for molecules that are known to be absent from a sample or they may comprise features having no probes attached to the substrate surface at all.

In many embodiments the array substrate also called a support may be fabricated from a number of materials. The materials may be solid. The materials may be semi solid. Examples of materials that may be used to fabricate array substrates include but are not limited to glass fused silica silicon polymer or paper.

In some embodiments the present disclosure also describes arrays for use in stochastic labeling studies. In particular arrays are described wherein the arrays comprise a plurality of features having immobilized probes thereon that are complementary to a set of labels designed for use in stochastic labeling experiments and wherein there is at least one feature on the array for every label in the label set. Some embodiments include an array comprising a a plurality of features optionally organized into a plurality of sub arrays wherein the plurality of features comprise i one or more fiducial features comprising oligonucleotide probes of a defined fiducial sequence ii one or more positive control features comprising oligonucleotide probes of one or more defined positive control sequences iii one or more negative control features having no oligonucleotide probes and iv a plurality of label set features comprising oligonucleotide probes wherein each individual feature comprises a unique sequence selected from a set of label sequences designed for stochastic labeling of one or more target molecules. In some embodiments the arrays described in the present disclosure comprise oligonucleotide probe sequences comprising 25 mers wherein the 5 terminus may optionally be labeled with a 6 carbon atom amino modifier. In some embodiments the arrays described in the present disclosure further comprise oligonucleotide probes comprising the set of 960 unique oligonucleotide sequences listed in Table 1. In some embodiments the arrays described in the present disclosure comprise a set of olignucleotide probes that are 70 homologous 80 homologous 85 homologous 90 homologous or 95 homologous with the set of sequences listed in Table 1. In some embodiments the array described in the present disclosure comprise a set of oligonucleotide probes that includes 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 or 90 or more of the sequences listed in Table 1.

In many embodiments of the disclosed methods systems and platforms samples may be processed prior to placing them in contact with the immobilized probes on arrays. For example target molecules in the samples may be labeled with fluorescent dye molecules and or stochastic labels during the sample preparation step. Prior to hybridization with oligonucleotide probes for example target DNA or RNA molecules may be covalently linked to fluorescent dye molecules including but not limited to fluorescein Cy3 or Cy5. Alternatively target molecules may be labeled after binding or hybridizing to probes on the array. For example target molecules may be covalently linked to biotin prior to binding or hybridization with probes on the array. Following the binding or hybridization step the immobilized target molecules may then be labeled with streptavidin conjugated to optical tags including but not limited to phycoerythrin quantum dot nanoparticles gold nanoparticles or blue latex beads. There are many methods for labeling target molecules either before or after binding or hybridization to the array and many possible choices for suitable optical labels or tags.

Once a sample has been contacted with an array the array or one or more regions of the array may comprise one or more labeled features. Each region of an array that has been contacted with a sample comprising labeled target molecules where the target molecules are labeled either before or after contact with the array may for example comprise zero one two or more labeled features. Alternatively a region of an array that has been contacted with a sample may comprise 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more labeled features. In some embodiments a region of an array that has been contacted with a sample may comprise 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 or more labeled features. In high density arrays a region of an array that has been contacted with a sample may comprise more than 100 labeled features more than 1 000 labeled features more than 10 000 labeled features more 100 000 labeled features or more than 1 000 000 labeled features.

The methods systems and platforms described herein may comprise an optical instrument used for finite conjugate digital imaging of one or more regions of an array wherein the instrument typically includes an illumination system an imaging system and a translation stage. In some embodiments the instrument operates as a macroscope having a magnification of less than one. In other embodiments the instrument operates as a microscope having a magnification of greater than one. In still other embodiments the instrument operates as a contact imager having a magnification equal to one. The choice of magnification will typically depend on the field of view required to image the region of interest and on the size of the image sensor.

By way of non limiting example if a region of an array comprises a single well of a 16 well microscope slide or a single well of a glass bottomed 96 well plate the dimensions of the region to be imaged may be approximately 7 mm 7 mm and the pitch center to center distance between two adjacent regions of the array may be approximately 9 mm. In some embodiments the optical instrument may be used to take an image of one well at a time or an image of 2 adjacent wells simultaneously or an image of 4 2 2 adjacent wells simultaneously and the required field of view or region to be imaged may be adjusted accordingly. Similarly the optical instrument may form an image of 6 3 2 or 2 3 8 4 2 or 2 4 9 3 3 10 5 2 or 5 2 or 12 6 2 4 3 3 4 or 2 6 adjacent wells simultaneously.

By way of another non limiting example if a region of an array is a single well of a glass bottomed 384 well plate the dimensions of the region to be imaged may be approximately 3 mm 3 mm and the pitch between two adjacent regions of the array may be approximately 4.5 mm. Again in some embodiments the optical instrument may be used to take an image of one well at a time or an image of 2 adjacent wells simultaneously or an image of 4 2 2 6 3 2 or 2 3 8 4 2 or 2 4 12 4 3 or 3 4 or 16 4 4 adjacent wells simultaneously.

In another non limiting example the optical instrument may be used to image high density oligonucleotide arrays for example arrays having more than 1 000 features per square millimeter and a region on the array may be approximately 1 mm 1 mm in area for example.

One main component of the optical instrument is an imaging system. The imaging system may include one or more lenses in addition to a CCD or CMOS camera. Typically the CCD or CMOS camera will have a resolution between a few hundred thousand and a few million pixels. A high resolution camera may have tens of millions of pixels or more.

The imaging system may be configured to magnify the image of the array. The required magnification of the imaging system can be determined by the required field of view and by the size of the CCD or CMOS sensor. By way of a non limiting example if the optical instrument is used to take an image of 2 adjacent wells of a 16 well microscope slide simultaneously the required field of view is approximately 16 mm 8 mm. If the light sensitive area of the CCD or CMOS sensor is about 4.8 mm 3.6 mm the instrument is a macroscope and a magnification of about 0.3 is required. In this case only data from the central 4.8 mm 2.4 mm of the sensor would be used.

By way of non limiting example an appropriate imaging system with a magnification of 0.3 may be constructed using an achromatic cemented doublet lens with a focal length of 85 mm and an infinite conjugate camera lens with a focal length of 25 mm. If a spectrally selective emission filter is used for example a single band interference filter multi band interference filter longpass interference filter or longpass colored glass filter and this filter is typically located between the achromatic cemented doublet lens and the camera lens. Additional configurations of an imaging system with a magnification of 0.3 are possible. For example the achromatic cemented doublet lens can be omitted and a finite conjugate camera lens can be used instead of an infinite conjugate camera lens. In this case the spectrally selective emission filter is preferably located on the long conjugate side of the camera lens.

A sensor with a light sensitive area of 4.8 mm 3.6 mm is known as a inch format sensor. If a sensor of different size is used the required magnification will be different. By way of a non limiting example if the required field of view is 16 mm 8 mm and a sensor having a light sensitive area of 6.4 mm 4.8 mm known as a inch format sensor is used then the required magnification is 0.4. An appropriate imaging system with a magnification of 0.4 can be constructed using for example an achromatic cemented doublet lens with a focal length of 85 mm and an infinite conjugate camera lens with a focal length of 35 mm.

As another non limiting example if the dimensions of a region are about 0.66 mm 0.66 mm and a sensor with a light sensitive area of 8.8 mm 6.6 mm known as a inch format sensor is used then the instrument is a microscope and the required magnification is about 10. In this case only data from the central 6.6 mm 6.6 mm of the sensor will be used. An appropriate imaging system with a magnification of 10 can be constructed using for example an infinite conjugate microscope objective with a focal length of 20 mm and a microscope tube lens with a focal length of 200 mm with a spectrally selective emission filter typically located between the microscope objective and the tube lens. Alternatively a finite conjugate 10 microscope objective can be used and the microscope tube lens can be omitted. In this case the spectrally selective emission filter can be located on the long conjugate side of the microscope objective.

An imaging system of any required magnification can be constructed using a combination of off the shelf and custom optical elements that does not necessarily include either a camera lens or a microscope objective. The optical elements may have various combinations of spherical flat aspheric or diffractive surfaces.

Another main component of the optical instrument is an illumination system. The purpose of the illumination system is to illuminate the array within the field of view of the CCD or CMOS camera. To reduce sensitivity to edge effects and to misalignment it may be desirable for the illuminated area to be slightly larger than the camera s field of view. By way of a non limiting example if the field of view is about 16 mm 8 mm a reasonable illuminated area may be about 18 mm 10 mm. The types of illumination may be Abbe Kohler or neither Abbe nor Kohler illumination. Abbe illumination and Kohler illumination are well known and are described in for example Chapter 14 of Second Edition by Robert E. Fischer et al. SPIE Press McGraw Hill N.Y. 2008.

In some embodiments the illumination system may be used for off axis illumination. In other embodiments the illumination system may be used for trans illumination or epi illumination. If the illumination system is used for off axis illumination or trans illumination then the illumination system and the imaging system are separate from each other with no shared optical components. If the illumination system is used for epi illumination then the illumination system and the imaging system may share a beamsplitter and possibly one or more lenses. The beamsplitter may be a plate beamsplitter or a cube beamsplitter. If the optical instrument is used for fluorescence imaging the beamsplitter is typically a single edge or multi edge longpass dichroic beamsplitter.

Often the illumination system may contain a square or rectangular aperture so that the illuminated area has the same shape as the region that is imaged by the CCD or CMOS camera. In embodiments where off axis illumination is used the aperture may be trapezoidal in shape instead of square or rectangular. An off axis illumination system may or may not satisfy the Scheimpflug condition. The Scheimpflug condition is described in for example Second Edition by Warren J. Smith McGraw Hill N.Y. 1990.

In some embodiments the illumination system may contain one or more of the following spherical lenses aspheric lenses a solid homogenizing rod with a rectangular or trapezoidal cross section a hollow homogenizing light tunnel with a rectangular or trapezoidal cross section a microlens array or a pair of microlens arrays a stationary or rotating diffuser a compound parabolic concentrator a non imaging optical element other than a compound parabolic concentrator e.g. a free form catadioptric element an optical fiber a fiber bundle or a liquid light guide.

The illumination system may contain one or more light sources selected from the group including but not limited to one or more LEDs one or more lasers a xenon arc lamp a metal halide lamp or an incandescent lamp or a combination thereof. The illumination system may also contain a spectrally selective excitation filter selected from the list including but not limited to a single band interference filter a multi band interference filter or a shortpass interference filter. If the illumination system contains two or more light sources they may be the same by way of non limiting example two or more LEDs with peak emission wavelengths of about 525 nm for excitation of Cy3 dye mounted as close together as possible on a circuit board or different by way of non limiting example an LED with a peak excitation wavelength of about 525 nm for excitation of Cy3 dye and an LED with a peak excitation wavelength of about 625 nm for excitation of Cy5 dye mounted as close together as possible on a circuit board . Two color or multicolor LED assemblies are available from for example LED Engin Inc. San Jose Calif. and Innovations in Optics Inc. Woburn Mass. .

In some embodiments a light source in the illumination system may be controlled electronically. By way of a non limiting example a light source may be synchronized with the CCD or CMOS camera so that the light source turns on when the CCD or CMOS camera begins an exposure and turns off when the camera finishes an exposure. If the illumination system contains two or more light sources they may optionally be controlled together or independently of each other.

In some embodiments a light source may be left on continuously. In this case the illumination system may contain an electronically controlled shutter and the shutter may be synchronized with the CCD or CMOS camera so that the shutter opens when the CCD or CMOS camera begins an exposure and closes when the camera finishes an exposure.

In some embodiments the optical instrument may contain a single illumination system. In other embodiments the instrument may contain two or more illumination systems that are identical. In yet other embodiments the instrument may contain two or more illumination systems that are different. By way of non limiting examples an optical instrument for detecting fluorescence from Cy3 and Cy5 may contain one illumination system for Cy3 excitation and another illumination system for Cy5 excitation or it may contain a single illumination system that is used for both Cy3 and Cy5 excitation.

Yet another main component of the optical instrument may be one or more translation stages. One purpose of the translation stage may be to move sample holders in and out of the field view of the imaging system. Another purpose of the translation stage system may be to move the imaging system components of the imaging system the illumination system or components of the illumination system relative to the sample or relative to one another for obtaining the best possible image.

In many embodiments of the presently disclosed systems the translation stage may further comprise a sample holder. By way of non limiting examples if the optical instrument is used to take images of 16 well microscope slides the translation stage contains a slide holder. If the optical instrument is used to take images of 96 well plates or 384 well plates and it contains a plate holder. The slide holder plate holder or other array support holder may be mounted on the translation stage system in any of a variety of ways known to those skilled in the art.

The translation stage may have one or more axes of motion. By way of a non limiting example if the support is a 16 well microscope slide and the instrument takes images of 2 adjacent wells simultaneously a single axis of motion may be sufficient. By way of another non limiting example if the support is a 96 well plate and the instrument takes images of 2 adjacent wells simultaneously then at least 2 axes of motion would be required. Additional axes of motion for adjustment of focus and tilt may also be added. If the instrument can take an image of all of the regions on the support in a single exposure then the translation stage may be omitted in some embodiments of the optical instrument.

The systems and devices described herein can include features for insuring that the sensors of the device detect appropriate signal. For example the systems and devices can include light excluding features. The light excluding features generally reduce unintended signal from reaching light sensitive sensors. In many embodiments one or more of the imaging system illumination system translation stage and other components of the instrument are surrounded by a housing. The housing can be opaque. The housing can in some instances act as a faraday cage. In some instances a single housing is sufficient to exclude light from systems. The single housing can also provide external protection of the system. Alternatively multiple housings may individually contain one or more components of the instrument. In some instances the housings are nested housings. In various embodiments the housing can be gas and or liquid tight.

The housing may have an access point which can exclude light from the interior of the housing. The access point may comprise materials that absorb light in the spectrum relevant to the sensors within the housing e.g. vantablack in the visible spectrum. The access point may comprise a closure device. The closure device may be opaque. The closure device may be e.g. a door. The closure device may be substantially light tight in a closed position. The closure may be light tight in a closed position.

The closure device can be opened e.g. for insertion and removal of a 16 well slide 96 well plate 384 well plate or other array support. A sensor for example a photointerrupter may be used to determine whether the closure device is open or closed. The instrument s software or electronic hardware may prevent the light source in the illumination system from turning on when the closure device is open may prevent power from being applied to the image sensor and or may prevent the translation stage from moving when the closure device is open.

In some embodiments the housing may further comprise a mechanism for automated opening and closing of the closure device as illustrated in . The closure device can provide access to the interior of the housing. The closure device can provide access for the array to be loaded in and out of the instrument. This operation can be performed automatically. In some instances the closure device can exclude ambient light during imaging while opening reliably to permit loading.

In some instances the closure device does not comprise pivoting parts. In some embodiments of the disclosed systems and platforms the closure device is held by magnets to the housing. Magnets can hold the closure device to the housing in a closed position. Magnets can hold the closure device to a loading device e.g. a tray in an open position. During a transition from an open to closed position the closure device can transition from being primarily magnetically attached to a loading device to being primarily magnetically attached to the housing. During a transition from a closed to open position the closure device can transition from being primarily magnetically attached to the housing to being primarily magnetically attached to the loading device. In some instances the transition between the open and closed state is magnetically unstable such instability causing the closure device to move from the transition state to either the more stable open or closed position.

The closure device can comprise a self locating function provided by conical features on the door. The thicknesses of the parts which support the magnets on each side of a mating pair and the depth of retaining pockets within those parts defines the spacing between magnets in each mating pair and thus the holding forces. The design geometry is matched to the power of the motors to provide enough retaining force without requiring high motor torque. The system is further designed such that the motor current and speed and hence torque can be controlled to improve the performance and avoid creating a safety hazard. Two of the four magnet pairs are used to temporarily hold the door to the front of the sample tray when the tray moves outward for loading an array assembly as depicted in . The other two magnet pairs are used to hold the door closed against the front panel after the tray has moved inwards and separated the other two magnet pairs in the process . The respective allocation of magnets is shown in . The mating magnets on the front of the stage are shown in . The locations of the mating magnets in the front panel are shown in . To provide for secure grip and therefore reliable operation rare earth magnets provide high strength e.g. neodymium magnets . Some embodiments of the design call for disc magnets approximately 8 mm in diameter and 3 mm thick with the magnetic field parallel to the axis. In some embodiments it is sufficient to replace one magnet from each pair with a weaker magnet or with a piece of magnetic material such as iron or mild steel.

In some embodiments of the systems and platforms disclosed herein a mechanism for providing for automated door or lid closure on one or more instrument compartments is provided wherein the mechanism comprises a a closure b a housing which magnetically holds the closure in a first position and c a translation stage which magnetically holds the closure in a second position. In some embodiment the mechanism further comprises a gasket positioned between the closure and the housing. In some embodiments of the mechanism the gasket is attached to the closure. In other embodiments the gasket is attached to the housing. In some embodiments the closure and housing are substantially opaque and the gasket creates a substantially light tight seal between the closure and the housing in the first position. In some embodiments of the mechanism one or more magnets are positioned to hold the closure onto the housing in the first position. In some embodiments of the mechanism one or more magnets are positioned to hold the closure onto a first surface of the translation stage in the second position. In some embodiments the mechanism further comprises two or more pairs of mating locating features to align the closure with the translation stage in the second position. In some embodiments the mechanism further comprises two or more pairs of mating locating features to align the closure with the housing in the first position. In some embodiments of the mechanism the pairs of mating locating features comprise conical pins and conical holes. In some embodiments the housing comprises an optical instrument. In some embodiments the translation stage includes a sample holder. In some embodiments the sample holder is designed to hold a microscope slide a microarray or a microwell plate. In some embodiments the closure is not hinged. In some embodiments the closure is not attached to either the housing or the translation stage through the use of fasteners such as screws or clips. In some embodiments the closure is not attached to either the housing or the translation stage through the use of an adhesive.

The methods systems and platforms described herein for counting one or more labeled features on an array may comprise data input or use of the same. The data input may comprise imaging information and or images of one or more regions of arrays. The images comprise pixel data wherein each unit of pixel data may be encoded in by way of non limiting examples 4 8 12 14 16 32 64 128 256 or more bits. An image may encompass one or more regions of an array. The spatial resolution of an image may be determined by the spatial resolution of the optical instrument but in some embodiments of the disclosed methods and systems spatial resolution may be enhanced by digital image processing schemes based on by way of non limiting examples interpolations extrapolations modeling and or transforms.

The methods systems and platforms described herein for counting one or more labeled features on an array may comprise acquisition and analysis of images of one two or more distinct regions on an array. In some embodiments two or more regions to be imaged may overlap partially overlap or not overlap at all. Furthermore two or more regions to be imaged may be adjacent or non adjacent.

The methods software systems and platforms described herein for counting one or more labeled features on an array may comprise acquisition and analysis of images of all or a portion of an array. In some embodiments the region of an array that is imaged may comprise at least about 1 of the total area of the array. In some embodiments the region of the array that is imaged image may comprise at least about 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more of the total area of the array. In other embodiments the region of the array to be imaged may comprise at least about 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 or more of the total area of the array. In still other embodiments the region of the array to be imaged may comprise at least about 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 or more of the total area of the array. In some embodiments the region of the array to be imaged may comprise at least about 75 80 85 90 92 95 97 or more of the total area of the array.

The methods software systems and platforms described herein for counting one or more labeled features on an array may comprise acquisiton and analysis of images of all or a portion of the features of an array. In some embodiments the image may encompass between 10 and 100 of the total number of features on the array. In some embodiments the image may encompass at least 5 at least 10 at least 20 at least 30 at least 40 at least 50 at least 60 at least 70 at least 80 at least 90 or at least 95 of the total number of features on the array. In some embodiments the image may encompass at most 95 at most 90 at most 80 at most 70 at most 60 at most 50 at most 40 at most 30 at most 20 at more 10 or at most 5 of the total number of features on the array. The number of features encompassed by the image may fall within any range bounded by any of these values e.g. from about 15 to about 90 of the total number of features of the array .

The methods systems and platforms described herein comprise software for acquiring images from an optical instrument. In some embodiments e.g. for optical instruments comprising two or more image sensors the image acquisition may operate in a parallel mode i.e. where two or more images are acquired simultaneously. Alternatively the image acquisition may operate in a serial mode where two or more images are acquired sequentially. In general image acquisition may be performed in a continuous fashion i.e. wherein the image is acquired within a single exposure time period or intermittently i.e. wherein the image is acquired in a discontinuous fashion e.g. using two or more separate exposure time periods wherein in some embodiments two more more images are combined for signal averaging purposes .

In a non limiting example an array may comprise 16 wells where an image is formed for each well. The image acquisition module may sequentially read the 16 images. Reading the 16 images can be completed in a continuous time period or the system may read a first image followed by analyzing the first image and then the procedure of image reading and image analysis repeats till the 16th image is analyzed. Alternatively the image acquisition module may read a pair of images at once and repeat the reading till all the 16 images are acquired. The 16 images may be read sequentially in a single time period. In some applications a pair of images may be read followed by immediate image analyses.

In general one of the objectives in performing image processing and analysis is to improve signal to noise ratios and quantitation. In an ideal array experiment labeled features comprising bound target molecules and or labels would produce a uniform non saturated signal level when imaged and non labeled features would appear uniformly dark with a signal level of close to zero. In reality a variety of artifacts due to instrumental and or assay procedural issues including but not limited to stray light background fluorescence in the case of fluorescence based imaging particulate contaminants and non specific binding of assay components can produce images that hinder one s ability to extract quantitative signal intensity data and make definitive calls as to which features of the array are labeled. Accordingly the methods systems and platforms disclosed herein may comprise software for performing a variety of image processing tasks including but not limited to feature location image orientation correction background correction intensity measurement data scaling data thresholding and data analysis functions.

Image orientation and location of features. In some embodiments fiducial features incorporated into the design of an array are used to orient the image and locate features in an automated fashion using custom image analysis software. By way of non limiting example the microarray pattern shown in consists of a 32 32 array of features where fiducial features in the top and bottom rows permit location of the array in the digital images. The fiducial features are typically arranged in an asymmetric pattern whose orientation is readily identifiable e.g. fiducial features located in the top row of features in an array such as that depicted in may comprise a distinctive pattern for which the left and right ends of the row are asymmetric while the pattern of fiducial features in the bottom row is typically different from that in the top row. This permits easy manual and automatic identification of incorrect placement of the array and also facilitated detection of imaging problems. In some embodiments the image may be transformed also transformed so that the apparent orientation of the images corresponds to the orientation as viewed by a user often referred to as the viewing reference orientation as shown in for a specific embodiment of an array designed for use with the methods systems and platforms disclosed herein.

Refinement of feature locations. In some embodiments the measured location of each feature is refined so as to account for array fabrication errors which can produce offsets of several image pixels. The locations of features obtained during the initial image orientation and feature location step may be used to subdivide the array or array region into analysis windows for example an array may be divided into 32 32 analysis windows wherein each analysis window comprises an image area of 12 12 pixels centered on each feature as shown in . The size of the analysis window used is dependent on the size of the features on the array and may be any size that is necessary to correctly locate and distinguish between features and background regions on the array. By way of non limiting examples the analysis window may be defined as a 5 5 7 7 9 9 15 15 51 51 or 101 101 pixel area that is centered on the array feature. The position of the feature within the window may be determined on the basis of the signal intensity distribution and clustering of the pixels within the analysis window. The refined location of the feature is calculated as an offset in coordinates X and Y from the site predicted by a perfect rectilinear grid. In some embodiments distortion of the feature location results due to defects such as dust is avoided by making use of the correlation between printing artifacts between different arrays on the same substrate. Since the printing artifacts are typically consistent the correction relative to a hypothetical rectilinear grid is also consistent. The feature location optimization results for a given feature are combined across all of the arrays being analyzed and the median offset is used for subsequent analysis which greatly decreases noise in the final experimental results.

Local background correction. Once the feature pixel set S and background pixel set B have been defined for each location in the array for example see the local background is removed via a calculation involving signal intensity and background intensity statistics. Examples of suitable signal and background intensity statistics for use in local background correction calculations include but are not limited to the mean the median or a ratio of signal to background. In some embodiments following feature location refinement performed as described above the pixels within the analysis window are assigned to be signal pixels background pixels or transitional pixels i.e. pixels to be disregarded in subsequent calculations of signal and background intensity statistics see . In some embodiments of the disclosed methods local background correction is performed via subtraction in logarithm space i.e. a calculation that is closely related to a signal to background ratio calculation as illustrated in a non limiting example below 

Given the 16 bit pixel data measurements for a defined feature and background area on next calculates a single value for the signal pixels and a value for the background pixels respectively. One useful statistic is the median value for each set of pixels i.e.

Determination of dynamic signal intensity thresholds. In many embodiments of the methods systems and platforms disclosed herein a dynamic signal intensity threshold is determined for one or more regions of an array by performing one or more statistical analyses of the background corrected signal intensity data for the complete set of features. Any of a variety of statistical or empirical analysis techniques may be used including but not limited to k means clustering k medoids clustering mixture model statistical analysis probe reference distribution methods or empirical analysis based on sorting of background corrected signal intensity values sorting of pairwise differences in background corrected signal intensity values etc. In some embodiments analyses may utilize spatial and or temporal information collected across multiple analysis windows across multiple array regions or over specified periods of time or combinations thereof to improve the quality of the analysis and thereby improve the quantitative aspects of the disclosed methods. In some embodiments other sources of information including but not limited to for example locations of probes frequently occurring artifact patterns previously derived results literature reports array manufacturers suggestions human knowledge and or human guidance may also be integrated into the analysis.

By way of a non limiting example of threshold determination in some embodiments of the disclosed methods the background corrected signal intensity threshold may be determined using an empirical approach e.g. the E Derivative approach see wherein the background corrected signal intensity data for the complete set of array features constitutes a set I I. The set I is sorted in increasing order to obtain a set of ordered corrected signal intensity values z z Sort y . Next the differences between each sorted array value are calculated to obtain d d d . . . d where d z z. The intensity differences are then smoothed using a window whose width is w to produce a smoothed sorted array s 

By way of another non limiting example of threshold determination in some embodiments the background corrected signal intensity threshold may be determined by fitting the background corrected feature intensity data to two more more assumed distributions i.e. a Mixture Model approach wherein the assumed distributions comprise normal distributions uniform distributions etc. The mixture model approach essentially models the underlying process that generated the data by assuming that the positive feature intensities are generated from a positive feature distribution with higher average signal intensity and the negative feature intensities are generated from a negative feature distribution with lower average signal intensity. This approach additionally models the variability in the feature intensities generated by each distribution which can be useful in cases where the negative feature intensities tend to be much less variable while the positive feature intensities tends to be much more variable. The choice of the distributions is determined by the shape of the data curve in a background corrected feature intensity histogram. The parameters of the model e.g. the estimated average intensities for on and off features and their corresponding variance are estimated from the data using a method such as the Expectation Maximization algorithm.

By way of another non limiting example of threshold determination in some embodiments the background corrected signal intensity threshold may be determined by fitting the background corrected feature intensity data to a model function comprising three assumed distributions i.e. a 3 Component Model approach wherein the assumed distributions comprise a log normal distribution Dist for the off spots a normal distribution Dist for the on spots and a flat offset FlatLevel. Adjustable parameters for the model include i the number of bins in the starting histogram ii Dist amplitude iii Dist position iv Dist standard deviation v Dist amplitude vi Dist position vii Dist standard deviation and viii FlatLevel. An example fit to histogram data is shown in . One non limiting example of a method to determine the threshold after fitting feature intensity data to such a distribution is as follows i fit the 3 component distribution to the histogram data and ii set the threshold T by calculating the following values 1 the intensity twhere the high intensity side of the fitted log normal distribution component drops below 1 or a defined parameter for comparison 2 the intensity twhere the high intensity side of the fitted log normal distribution component drops below the fitted FlatLevel result 3 the intensity twhere the high intensity side of the fitted log normal distribution component drops below the value of the fitted normal distribution at that histogram bin and 4 choosing T min t t t . Alternative approaches for determining a threshold using a 3 component model approach will be apparent to those of skill in the art. It can be beneficial to calculate starting values of model parameters to improve the speed and reliability of the modelling process which can be achieved using methods such as a coarse search to identify the dominant peaks in the histogram or based on assumptions derived from typical historical data sets.

By way of another non limiting example of threshold determination in some embodiments the background corrected signal intensity threshold may be determined using a Peak Split Fiducials approach. This approach which copes well with low quality data is described as follows. An initial split of the feature intensity data into high and low intensity groups is made using the scale defined naturally by the spread between on label present and off label absent features in the fiducial rows. Then the histogram peak after optionally smoothing the data using standard methods such as a moving average filter is found for each group. The threshold is then determined by examining the spread in the intensity data around the low intensity group peak. Define upper and lower bounds of fiducial intensity i F median of OFF fiducials F median of ON fiducials and iii F F F. Perform an initial split of the data based on the fiducial scale at the level Splitvalue F PeakSplit F where the parameter PeakSplit is a percentage of F. Find peaks i Peak the intensity peak for which the histogram is a maximum for all features of intensity less than Splitvalue ii Peak the intensity peak for which the histogram is a maximum for all features of intensity greater than Splitvalue. Calculate the standard deviation Stdev of all the features in the neighbourhood of Peak defined as all index features from the lowest intensity up to Peak PeakOffsetFraction Peak Peak where PeakOffsetFraction is an adjustable parameter. Set the threshold to the lesser of Tand T which are calculated as follows i T Peak StdevMultiple Stdev where StdevMultiple is a parameter OR T the intensity corresponding to the minimum of a smoothed histogram curve between Peak and T. Similar approaches using different methods for determining the spread around either peak can also be used.

The methods and systems disclosed herein may comprise detecting one or more labeled features within one or more regions on an array. In some embodiments detecting a labeled feature within a region may comprise comparing the background corrected signal intensity for a feature with a dynamic signal intensity threshold derived through statistical analysis of the background corrected signal intensities for the complete set of features. When the background corrected signal intensity for a given feature is above the threshold the feature may be classified as a labeled feature. Alternatively if the background corrected signal intensity for a given feature is below the threshold the feature may be classified as non labeled. Application of a background corrected signal intensity threshold to the corrected signal intensity data for the complete set of features thus constitutes a binary transformation of the data to a digital output wherein features are classified as either labeled on or non labeled off . Those of skill in the art will recognize that there are many possible variations in the type and order of analysis steps that may be applied to achieve this binary transformation.

Calculation of the absolute number of target molecules in a sample. The absolute number of target molecules in a sample wherein the target molecules have been labeled in a stochastic fashion as described previously may be determined using arrays comprising feature sets comprising probes that are specific for the labels in the stochastic label set. Following hybridization or binding of the target molecules or labeled target molecules to the array the array is imaged and processed as described above and the number of target molecules N in the sample is determined from the number k of labeled features based on Poisson distribution statistics 

Quality metrics. In some embodiments it is beneficial to include a numerical measure of the quality of the data to help to gauge the success of an experiment. In some embodiment this quality measurement may be based on statistics from the feature by feature intensity data. One simple quality measurement Qis simply the difference between the means of the positive and negative features intensities after background correction and scaling i.e. Q mean intensity of features having an intensity above the signal intensity threshold mean intensity of features having an intensity below the threshold . In some embodiments this metric may also incorporate the spread in the intensities of the feature distribution s by scaling the difference between means by the standard deviation of each distribution e.g. Q Q standard deviation of intensities for feature having intensities below the threshold intensity . Other quality measurements can be constructed based on the separation and breadth of modelled distributions which are fitted to the experimental data. In some embodiments deviance measurement may be used for a quality metric this is a calculation based on the degree of separation between two fitted normal distributions. In some embodiments it is preferable to empirically determine a dynamic intensity threshold by setting the threshold to a value which maximizes a quality metric.

Confidence intervals. In some embodiments of the methods disclosed herein it is beneficial to define confidence intervals see Dube et al. 2008 PLoS ONE 3 8 e2876 for a more complete description when specifying estimates of the absolute number of target molecules detected in a sample using the techniques described above. The 95 confidence interval of the estimation of N from stochastic labeling experiments can be derived from k for a single reaction employing a single set of distinct labels. The 95 confidence interval for N ranges from Nto N where

Ratio of the number of copies of a target molecule in two samples. Frequently researchers seek to compare the expression levels of genes in different samples by calculating a ratio between gene expression levels in two or more samples. Using calculations such as those described above it is possible to derive confidence intervals for such ratios where the number of target molecules in each sample are determined using the methods systems and platforms as disclosed herein.

Replicate experiments. The benefit of performing replicate experiments and the proper calculation of associated uncertainties is illustrated in . While results blue points from replicate experiments can simply be combined blue error bars calculating the uncertainty from Poisson statistics wherein one considers the replicates as comprising a larger pool of labels gives the smaller green error bars illustrated in the figure. The accuracy of this estimation will vary depending on the consistency between replicates and there is a numerical simplification employed in considering the labels of replicate experiments to be a pool of diverse labels. Therefore in some embodiments of the disclosed methods different methods for calculating confidence intervals may be more appropriate at high ratios of k m.

The methods software systems and platforms disclosed herein may comprise a user interface or use of the same. The user interface may provide one or more inputs from a user. The input from the user interface may comprise instructions for counting the one or more labeled features in a real time mode. The input from the user interface may comprise instructions for counting the one or more features from one or more images. The one or more images may be archived images. The one or more images may be live captured images.

Different platform operators may have their own preferences about the timing to analyze images. One platform operator may want to run the image analyses while live capturing images. Another platform operator may run the image analyses after all the images have been collected. Or another platform operator may run the image analyses on a set of archived images. These options can be selected via inputs to the user interface.

The methods software systems and platforms disclosed herein may comprise a digital processing device or use of the same. The digital processing device may comprise one or more hardware central processing units CPU that carry out the device s functions. The digital processing device may comprise an operating system configured to perform executable instructions. The digital processing device may be connected to a computer network. The digital processing device may be connected to the Internet such that it accesses the World Wide Web. The digital processing device may be connected to a cloud computing infrastructure. The digital processing device may be connected to an intranet. The digital processing device may be connected to a data storage device.

Suitable digital processing devices may include by way of non limiting examples server computers desktop computers laptop computers notebook computers sub notebook computers netbook computers netpad computers set top computers handheld computers Internet appliances mobile smartphones tablet computers personal digital assistants video game consoles and vehicles. In some instances smartphones may be suitable for use in the system described herein. In some instances select televisions video players and digital music players with optional computer network connectivity may be suitable for use in the system described herein. Suitable tablet computers may include those with booklet slate and convertible configurations known to those of skill in the art.

The digital processing device may comprise an operating system configured to perform executable instructions. The operating system may be software including programs and data which manages the device s hardware and provides services for execution of applications. Suitable server operating systems may include by way of non limiting examples FreeBSD OpenBSD NetBSD Linux Apple Mac OS X Server Oracle Solaris Windows Server and Novell NetWare . Suitable personal computer operating systems may include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft Windows Apple Mac OS X UNIX and UNIX like operating systems such as GNU Linux . The operating system is provided by cloud computing. Suitable mobile smart phone operating systems may include by way of non limiting examples Nokia Symbian OS Apple iOS Research In Motion BlackBerry OS Google Android Microsoft Windows Phone OS Microsoft Windows Mobile OS Linux and Palm WebOS .

The digital processing device may comprise a storage and or memory device. The storage and or memory device may be one or more physical apparatuses used to store data or programs on a temporary or permanent basis. The digital processing device may be a volatile memory and may require power to maintain stored information. The digital processing device may be a non volatile memory and may retain stored information when the digital processing device is not powered. The non volatile memory may comprise flash memory. The non volatile memory may comprise dynamic random access memory DRAM . The non volatile memory may comprise ferroelectric random access memory FRAM . The non volatile memory may comprise phase change random access memory PRAM . The storage device may include by way of non limiting examples CD ROMs DVDs flash memory devices magnetic disk drives magnetic tapes drives optical disk drives and cloud computing based storage. The storage and or memory device may be a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

The digital processing device may comprise a display. The display may be used to send visual information to a user. The display may be a cathode ray tube CRT . The display may be a liquid crystal display LCD . The display may be a thin film transistor liquid crystal display TFT LCD . The display may be an organic light emitting diode OLED display. The OLED display may be a passive matrix OLED PMOLED or active matrix OLED AMOLED display. The display may be a plasma display. The display may be a video projector. The display may be a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

The digital processing device may comprise an input device to receive information from a user. The input device may be a keyboard. The input device may be a pointing device including by way of non limiting examples a mouse trackball track pad joystick game controller or stylus. The input device may be a touch screen or a multi touch screen. The input device may be a microphone to capture voice or other sound input. The input device may be a video camera to capture motion or visual input. The input device may be a combination of devices such as those disclosed herein.

The methods software systems and platforms disclosed herein may comprise one or more non transitory computer readable storage media encoded with a program including instructions executable by the operating system of an optionally networked digital processing device. A computer readable storage medium may be a tangible component of a digital processing device. A computer readable storage medium may be optionally removable from a digital processing device. A computer readable storage medium may include by way of non limiting examples CD ROMs DVDs flash memory devices solid state memory magnetic disk drives magnetic tape drives optical disk drives cloud computing systems and services and the like. The program and instructions may be permanently substantially permanently semi permanently or non transitorily encoded on the media.

The methods software systems and platforms disclosed herein may comprise at least one computer processor or use of the same. The computer processor may comprise a computer program. A computer program may include a sequence of instructions executable in the digital processing device s CPU written to perform a specified task. Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions features Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. A computer program may be written in various versions of various languages.

The functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments. A computer program may comprise one sequence of instructions. A computer program may comprise a plurality of sequences of instructions. A computer program may be provided from one location. A computer program may be provided from a plurality of locations. A computer program may include one or more software modules. A computer program may include in part or in whole one or more web applications one or more mobile applications one or more standalone applications one or more web browser plug ins extensions add ins or add ons or combinations thereof.

A computer program may include a web application. In light of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that a web application may utilize one or more software frameworks and one or more database systems. A web application may be created upon a software framework such as Microsoft .NET or Ruby on Rails RoR . A web application may utilize one or more database systems including by way of non limiting examples relational non relational feature oriented associative and XML database systems. Suitable relational database systems may include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft SQL Server mySQL and Oracle . Those of skill in the art will also recognize that a web application may be written in one or more versions of one or more languages. A web application may be written in one or more markup languages presentation definition languages client side scripting languages server side coding languages database query languages or combinations thereof. A web application may be written to some extent in a markup language such as Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible Hypertext Markup Language XHTML or eXtensible Markup Language XML . A web application may be written to some extent in a presentation definition language such as Cascading Style Sheets CSS . A web application may be written to some extent in a client side scripting language such as Asynchronous Javascript and XML AJAX Flash Actionscript Javascript or Silverlight . A web application may be written to some extent in a server side coding language such as Active Server Pages ASP ColdFusion Perl Java JavaServer Pages JSP Hypertext Preprocessor PHP Python Ruby Tcl Smalltalk WebDNA or Groovy. A web application may be written to some extent in a database query language such as Structured Query Language SQL . A web application may integrate enterprise server products such as IBM Lotus Domino. A web application may include a media player element. A media player element may utilize one or more of many suitable multimedia technologies including by way of non limiting examples Adobe Flash HTML 5 Apple QuickTime Microsoft Silverlight Java and Unity

A computer program may include a mobile application provided to a mobile digital processing device. The mobile application may be provided to a mobile digital processing device at the time it is manufactured. The mobile application may be provided to a mobile digital processing device via the computer network described herein.

A mobile application may be created by techniques known to those of skill in the art using hardware languages and development environments known to the art. Those of skill in the art will recognize that mobile applications may be written in several languages. Suitable programming languages include by way of non limiting examples C C C Featureive C Java Javascript Pascal Feature Pascal Python Ruby VB.NET WML and XHTML HTML with or without CSS or combinations thereof.

Suitable mobile application development environments may be available from several sources. Commercially available development environments include by way of non limiting examples AirplaySDK alcheMo Appcelerator Celsius Bedrock Flash Lite .NET Compact Framework Rhomobile and WorkLight Mobile Platform. Other development environments may be available without cost including by way of non limiting examples Lazarus MobiFlex MoSync and Phonegap. Also mobile device manufacturers distribute software developer kits including by way of non limiting examples iPhone and iPad iOS SDK Android SDK BlackBerry SDK BREW SDK Palm OS SDK Symbian SDK webOS SDK and Windows Mobile SDK.

Those of skill in the art will recognize that several commercial forums may be available for distribution of mobile applications including by way of non limiting examples Apple App Store Android Market BlackBerry App World App Store for Palm devices App Catalog for webOS Windows Marketplace for Mobile Ovi Store for Nokia devices Samsung Apps and Nintendo DSi Shop.

A computer program may include a standalone application which may be a program that may be run as an independent computer process not an add on to an existing process e.g. not a plug in. Those of skill in the art will recognize that standalone applications may be often compiled. A compiler may be a computer program s that transforms source code written in a programming language into binary feature code such as assembly language or machine code. Suitable compiled programming languages include by way of non limiting examples C C Featureive C COBOL Delphi Eiffel Java Lisp Python Visual Basic and VB .NET or combinations thereof. Compilation may be often performed at least in part to create an executable program. A computer program may include one or more executable complied applications.

A computer program may include a web browser plug in. In computing a plug in may be one or more software components that add specific functionality to a larger software application. Makers of software applications may support plug ins to enable third party developers to create abilities which extend an application to support easily adding new features and to reduce the size of an application. When supported plug ins may enable customizing the functionality of a software application. For example plug ins are commonly used in web browsers to play video generate interactivity scan for viruses and display particular file types. Those of skill in the art will be familiar with several web browser plug ins including Adobe Flash Player Microsoft Silverlight and Apple QuickTime . The toolbar may comprise one or more web browser extensions add ins or add ons. The toolbar may comprise one or more explorer bars tool bands or desk bands.

In view of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that several plug in frameworks may be available that enable development of plug ins in various programming languages including by way of non limiting examples C Delphi Java PHP Python and VB .NET or combinations thereof.

Web browsers also called Internet browsers may be software applications designed for use with network connected digital processing devices for retrieving presenting and traversing information resources on the World Wide Web. Suitable web browsers include by way of non limiting examples Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Google Chrome Apple Safari Opera Software Opera and KDE Konqueror. The web browser may be a mobile web browser. Mobile web browsers also called mircrobrowsers mini browsers and wireless browsers may be designed for use on mobile digital processing devices including by way of non limiting examples handheld computers tablet computers netbook computers subnotebook computers smartphones music players personal digital assistants PDAs and handheld video game systems. Suitable mobile web browsers include by way of non limiting examples Google Android browser RIM BlackBerry Browser Apple Safari Palm Blazer Palm WebOS Browser Mozilla Firefox for mobile Microsoft Internet Explorer Mobile Amazon Kindle Basic Web Nokia Browser Opera Software Opera Mobile and Sony PSP browser.

The methods software systems and platforms disclosed herein may comprise one or more softwares servers and database modules or use of the same. In view of the disclosure provided herein software modules may be created by techniques known to those of skill in the art using machines software and languages known to the art. The software modules disclosed herein may be implemented in a multitude of ways. A software module may comprise a file a section of code a programming feature a programming structure or combinations thereof. A software module may comprise a plurality of files a plurality of sections of code a plurality of programming features a plurality of programming structures or combinations thereof. The one or more software modules may comprise by way of non limiting examples a web application a mobile application and a standalone application. Software modules may be in one computer program or application. Software modules may be in more than one computer program or application. Software modules may be hosted on one machine. Software modules may be hosted on more than one machine. Software modules may be hosted on cloud computing platforms. Software modules may be hosted on one or more machines in one location. Software modules may be hosted on one or more machines in more than one location.

The methods software systems and platforms disclosed herein may comprise one or more databases or use of the same. In view of the disclosure provided herein those of skill in the art will recognize that many databases may be suitable for storage and retrieval of imaging information. Suitable databases may include by way of non limiting examples relational databases non relational databases feature oriented databases feature databases entity relationship model databases associative databases and XML databases. A database may be internet based. A database may be web based. A database may be cloud computing based. A database may be based on one or more local computer storage devices.

The following illustrative examples are representative of specific embodiments of the methods systems and platforms described herein but are not meant to be limiting in any way.

An embodiment of an imaging system is illustrated in . Light emitted by dye molecules on a surface of the support was collimated by an achromatic cemented doublet lens filtered by a bandpass filter and focused by a camera lens onto the sensor of a CCD camera. Lens Edmund Optics model 47640 had a focal length of 85 mm and a diameter of 25 mm. Filter Semrock model FF01 593 40 25 was an emission bandpass filter for use with cy3 or phycoerythrin dye. Lens Fujinon model HF25HA 1B has a focal length of 25 mm. Lens was a multi element lens but it is shown in as an infinitesimally thin single element lens because the design details of the multi element lens were proprietary to Fujinon. The adjustable aperture stop of lens was set to 2.8. The CCD camera Point Grey Research model CMLN 13S2M CS had 1296 964 pixels and a pixel size of 3.75 microns. In this embodiment only the central 1280 640 pixels were used. The camera s plastic housing was removed and the camera s circuit board was cooled by a small fan. Lenses and formed a finite conjugate imaging system with a magnification of 0.3.

An embodiment of an illumination system is illustrated in . Light emitted by light source was collimated by lens and then passed through aperture bandpass filter and lenses and before reaching sample . Light source LedEngin model LZ4 40G100 was an LED with a peak emission wavelength of approximately 525 nm. Lens Thorlabs model ACL2520 A was an aspheric lens with a diameter of 25 mm and a focal length of 20 mm. Aperture Fotofab custom part was a rectangular hole 19 mm 7.5 mm in a 25 mm diameter steel disk. Filter Semrock model FF01 531 40 25 was an excitation bandpass filter for use with cy3 or phycoerythrin dye. Lenses and were plano convex lenses with diameters of 25 mm and focal lengths of 60 mm. Lenses and formed a finite conjugate imaging system with a magnification of 3 and imaged light source onto the pupils of lenses and . Lenses and formed a finite conjugate imaging system with a magnification of 1 and imaged aperture onto sample . The illumination system was tilted at 45 degrees with respect to sample . The illuminated area was approximately 19 mm 10.6 mm where 10.6 mm 7.5 mm cosine 45 degrees .

The purpose of this experiment was to illustrate the use of an ad hoc method to count the number of hybridizations taking place on an array. This example used probes that the specific DNA sequences attached to an array. The 32 32 feature arrays used in this experiment contain 960 different measure spots along with 32 positive control probes and 32 negative control probes see . The 32 positive control probes were used to ensure actual binding can occur by using stock oligonucleotide while the 32 negative control probes contained empty spots with no probes at all. In the image analysis step we considered a probe to have intensity above the set intensity threshold then we referred to the probe as a positive probe while if the probe intensity was below the set intensity threshold we referred to the probe as a negative feature. Positive probes were assumed to measure whether there was a significant amount of corresponding complementary oligonucleotide in the sample while negative features represented absent oligonucleotides. The positive probes were otherwise referred to as labels meaning we can count up to 960 unique labels or barcodes to measure 960 copies of oligonucleotides in the sample which can then be further generalized to predict the actual amount of oligonucleotides in the original sample. Depending on the experiment out of the M total labels or 960 total labels we could calculate the total number of copies N of the oligonucleotides in the sample by predicting N from the actual observed unique barcodes or number of positive probes k.

The purpose of this experiment was to demonstrate one method to compute a threshold for discriminating between labeled and non labeled features on an array.

The purpose of this experiment was to determine the count of kan genes in a sample. The sample containing the kan genes was hybridized to an array. displays a region of the array acquired from the imaging system. The bright intensity at a spot was correlated with a higher probability of a gene being present at the spot. The image analysis software examined the statistics of the intensity distribution such as deviance skewness kurtosis and median. These statistics provided guidance for the software to automatically choose the best method to detect the presence of kan genes. In this example a mixture model algorithm was used to determine the intensity threshold to be 6.6 which optimally divided the intensity distribution into on and off domains as shown in .

The purpose of this experiment was to detect the presence of molecular hybridization in a titration experiment. After obtaining the intensity measurements of a region the intensity distribution was computed and is shown in . A person with ordinary skill can identify two modes in the distribution however it was very difficult to determine the precise value of the threshold. The invented software automated the task of determining the signal intensity threshold and determined that an intensity value of 6.02 provides the optimal threshold for distinguishing between labeled and non labeled features.

The purpose of this experiment was to demonstrate use of one background subtraction method to process images. shows an acquired image with pronounced artifacts. A systematic background subtraction was performed to reduce noise. We defined an analysis window centered on a spot. The software then calculated the mean spot intensity spot standard deviation number of spot pixels n background mean background standard deviation and number of background pixels n. Then the software calculated the log 2 background subtracted intensity statistic for each spot 

The purpose of this experiment was an alternative way to adjust background. We defined an analysis window centered on a spot. The software then calculated the median spot intensity tilde over S and median local background intensity tilde over B . Then the software calculated the log 2 background subtracted intensity statistic for each spot log 16 log 16 .

This example illustrated one embodiment of an array for use with the disclosed methods systems and platforms in performing stochastic labeling experiment.

The Pixel cartridge consists of i an epoxysilane functionalized glass slide serving as an array substrate ii 16 copies of the custom microarray described in printed on the functionalized surface of the slide and iii a polymer well frame affixed to the printed side of the slide which serves to define 16 wells which are fluidically separate and in register with the array pattern. The well frame is affixed to the slide following array printing using a die cut double sided adhesive.

Custom DNA microarray layout. The microarray pattern consists of a 32 32 array of spots as shown in . Fiducial spots in the top and bottom rows permit location of the array in the scanned images. Also the fiducial spots are arranged in an asymmetric pattern whose orientation is readily identifiable the top row has a distinctive pattern whose ends are distinct and the bottom row is different from the top row. This permits easy manual and automatic identification of incorrect placement of the Pixel and also facilitates detection of imaging problems. The remaining 960 spots are each associated with one of the unique probe sequences listed in Table 1.

Oligonucleotide sequences and solution components. Oligonucleotide solutions are provided for preparation of printing solutions in 96 well microplates. Concentration as supplied is 100 M in H2O. Dilution prior to printing is performed using the Tecan GenMate. Dilution is 880 L of stock oligo 1320 L of buffer. The dilution buffer used is 250 mM sodium phosphate with 0.00833 sarcosyl. Buffer is filtered using a 0.2 m filter. Three sets of plates are prepared in each probe preparation operation. Tips are discarded after each source plate. The final dispensed solution is 40 M DNA in 150 mM sodium phosphate with 0.005 sarcosyl. The fiducial oligo is supplied at 500 M in H2O. The fiducial oligonucleotide sequence is 5 5AmMC6 TCC TGA ACG GTA GCATCT TGA CGA C 3 SEQ ID NO 1 25 bases 5 Amino Modifier C6 standard desalting supplied at 500 M in HO. The fiducial is diluted by mixing 176 L of fiducial 704 L of water and 1320 L of buffer. The final fiducial mixture is 40 M in 150 mM sodium phosphate with 0.005 sarcosyl.

Table of oligonucleotide sequences. The oligonucleotide sequences for the 960 probe sequences i.e. the sequences that are complementary to the set of stochastic labeling sequences used in molecular counting experiments are listed in Table 1.

The ability to perform multiple experiments in parallel enables straightforward exploration of the counting results from samples with a range of starting concentrations or amounts of target sometimes known as a titration experiment or a dilution series.

An example of dilution series data for a labeled RPLPO gene sequence is shown in . Plotted in the figure is the counting result N for each array where the nominal starting concentration of mRNA in the reaction is shown on the X axis.

Some of the graphical output from the analysis software for the same experiment is shown in . For each array there is a compound display with the following elements i an intensity histogram green for the index spots ii a blue line registered with the histogram showing the dynamic threshold for spot counting iii a 32 32 grid which is a digital representation of each array. A white site in the grid denotes a spot whose intensity was above the dynamic threshold and a black site denotes that the intensity was below the dynamic threshold and iv the result N and the quality score Q is reported for each array as text.

While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments may be provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention.

