---

title: Tracking source of job parameters in print jobs
abstract: Methods and devices receive a print job, evaluate the print job to identify job parameter settings and associated sources of the job parameter settings, transmit the job parameter settings and the associated sources to a database, and transmit the print job to a marking device to cause the marking device to print the print job. These methods and devices also provide access to the database to view the job parameter settings and the associated sources, and/or change the job parameter settings. The access to the database is provided before and/or after the marking device prints the print job. When evaluating the print job, these methods and devices identify “potential” and “final” job parameter settings and associated sources. The final settings and sources are used to perform marking and finishing operations, while the potential setting and sources comprise a pre-printing, job preparation history in the database.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09232084&OS=09232084&RS=09232084
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 09232084
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140219
---
Systems and methods herein generally relate to print jobs and to methods and devices that analyze print jobs.

Parameters of print jobs such as for finishing imposition color management can be set at the print queue print job page description language PDL creation exception page creation line printer remote LPR and job ticket level. These settings are reconciled before a job is submitted for print. The reconciliation can be performed for example using a precedence model.

However it is sometimes difficult or impossible to determine on what level an attribute had been set on a print job. The problem occurs when attempting to debug the reasons for unexpected and or unacceptable output or when changing the precedence for an attribute value immediately before print submission or reprint.

Exemplary system and printing devices herein comprise a computerized device that receives a print job. The computerized device evaluates the print job to identify job parameter settings and associated sources of such job parameter settings. A non transitory computer storage medium is operatively meaning directly or indirectly connected to the computerized device and the computerized device transmits the job parameter settings and the associated sources to a database stored within the non transitory computer storage medium. Each print job can have its own separate database

In addition a marking device is operatively connected to the computerized device. The computerized device transmits the print job to cause the marking device to print the print job. Also a graphic user interface is operatively connected to the computerized device and the graphic user interface provides access to the database to allow a user to view the job parameter settings and the associated sources and or change the job parameter settings. The graphic user interface provides access to the database before or after the marking device prints the print job.

The computerized device raster image processes RIPs the print job before printing the print job using the marking device. Further the computerized device identifies potential settings and sources and final settings and sources of the job parameter settings and the associated sources when evaluating the print job. These final settings and sources are the ones actually used to perform the raster image processing RIPing marking and finishing operations however all the potential setting and sources are all maintained in the database to provide a pre RIPing marking and finishing print job preparation history. Further the database maintains the potential setting and sources and the final settings and sources before and after the marking device prints the print job to allow user diagnosis etc.

Specifically these associated sources can include for example a print job property attributes source a print job ticket attributes source a print queue attributes source a page exception attributes source etc. Similarly the job parameter settings can include for example print job properties values print job ticket values print queue values page exception source values etc.

Stated in method terms exemplary methods herein can be performed on a system using discrete components that are in communication with one another over a local or wide area network or methods herein can be performed fully using just an individual printing device. One exemplary method receives a print job into a computerized device evaluates the print job to identify job parameter settings and associated sources of the job parameter settings using the computerized device. This exemplary method transmits the job parameter settings and the associated sources from the computerized device to a database stored within a non transitory computer storage medium that is operatively connected to the computerized device. Each print job can have its own database. Further this method transmits the print job from the computerized device to a marking device that is also operatively connected to the computerized device to cause the marking device to print the print job.

This method also provides access to the database to view the job parameter settings and the associated sources and or change the job parameter settings using a graphic user interface that is operatively connected to the computerized device. The access to the database is provided before and or after the marking device prints the print job. The method performs raster image processing RIPing on the print job before printing the print job using the marking device. When evaluating the print job this method identifies potential settings and sources and final settings and sources of the job parameter settings and the associated sources. The final settings and sources are used to perform the RIPing marking and finishing operations while the potential setting and sources comprise a pre RIPing marking and finishing print job preparation history. This method maintains the potential setting and sources and the final settings and sources in the database before and after the marking device prints the print job.

As mentioned above it is sometimes difficult or impossible to determine on what level an attribute had been set on a print job. Therefore the systems and methods herein provide a job parameter database that tracks the history of the print job a pre RIPing marking and finishing print job history and allows system users to understand all the specified parameter settings on a job and their source and also allows system users to override change attributes with the knowledge of the above

With the methods and devices herein each print job has a job parameter database associated with it. The job parameter database includes the attribute value pairs set at the job page description language PDL line printer remote LPR page exception queue and job ticket levels. The database includes additional precedence information such as queue overrides and page exceptions.

The job parameter database can be viewable updateable on the digital front end DFE of the printing device via a cascading menu. The user can request a view of the final reconciled parameter values before submission the selections for each parameter contributor e.g. queue job ticket etc. including the queue name as well as a view of the attributes on job level page level range of pages etc.

Thus with the job parameter database added to the DFE when a job is submitted to the DFE the gateway through which the submission enters the DFE on the print server common gateway application programming interface API establishes a database entry for the job. The gateway also queries the accompanying job ticket for attributes value pairs. The outcome of the query is entered in the database for the job ticket parameters. The job name and or job ID number can be included in the database.

Likewise when a job is submitted for either print or save print and save or hold the queue job and page exception attribute values are queried and entered into the database. Also the database can include page exception ranges queue override states queue name job identification ID etc. If the job is sent to a hold state the graphic user interface GUI will enable viewing of the database contents before print submission. The GUI display highlights which values are live for the submission. The user is presented with the option to change the live setting.

During raster image processing RIPing the common decomposer facility CDF monitors the finishing and media libraries that are created by the PDL interpreter. The CDF compares the library attribute values to those within the database. If there is a discrepancy it is assumed that a new job parameter value has been entered via the PDL contents. The CDF updates the database with entries for PDL attribute values. When a job is deleted the DFE s job manager can eliminate the database entry for the job.

With the job parameter database the methods and devices herein enable traceability of the origin of job parameters. The methods and devices can also include a low resolution RIP of the job to ascertain the job page parameters that are based within the PDL before job fulfillment RIPing printing out the parameters information on a banner or information sheet etc.

More specifically the job ticket attributes are shown in the first column of the table to the far left in and the job ticket attributes can include copy count halftone value and type of paper stock to be used during the printing. The second column shows the value of those job ticket attributes. Specifically the copy count on the job ticket is 4 the halftone setting is 175 and the paper stock should come from tray if the job ticket attributes are followed.

Similarly the job property attributes and job property values are shown in the next two columns to the right the queue attributes and queue values are shown in the following two columns to the right and the page exception attributes and values are shown in the following two columns to the right. Many of these attribute value pairs are different and therefore the job parameter database allows the user to easily see the differences between the values of the different sources that contribute to the print job settings.

The final two columns in the database shown to the far left in are the final value and an identification of the source of the final value that were used in the actual printing of the print job. For example with respect to the destination profile attribute the final print job that was actually printed utilized the queue attribute value of DC1000special.icc with respect to the halftone attribute the final print job that was actually printed utilized the job property attribute value of 200 with respect to the imposition attribute the final print job that was actually printed utilized the queue attribute value of signature etc.

While a few limited print job setting sources and a few exemplary print job setting sources have been illustrated in those ordinarily skilled in the art would understand that many more print job setting sources print job setting sources could be utilized and that the foregoing have only been selected as representative examples to demonstrate the functionality of the job parameter database created and utilized by the methods and devices herein.

As shown in the job parameter database not only provides the final value that was utilized when printing a specific print job but also identifies the source of the final job parameter setting as well as a listing of all other sources of job parameter settings which were not utilized in the final print job settings. By providing such information both before and after the print job has been executed the methods and devices herein provide the user with a history of how the settings for the print job were established the sources of such settings as well as the potential settings that were not utilized and the sources that could have supplied those potential non utilized settings . This allows the user to more easily identify why printing did not occur in the manner expected.

In item the exemplary method shown in receives a print job into a computerized device. In item this method evaluates the print job ticket to identify print job ticket parameter settings using the computerized device. In item this exemplary method transmits the print job ticket parameter settings from the computerized device to a database stored within a non transitory computer storage medium that is operatively connected to the computerized device. Each print job can have its own database.

In item this method evaluates the print job properties to identify print job property parameter settings using the computerized device. In item this exemplary method transmits the print job property parameter settings from the computerized device to the database. Similarly in item this method evaluates the print job queue to identify print job queue parameter settings using the computerized device. In item this exemplary method transmits the print job queue parameter settings from the computerized device to the database. Similarly in item this method evaluates the print job page exceptions to identify print job page exception parameter settings using the computerized device. In item this exemplary method transmits the print job page exception parameter settings from the computerized device to the database. While a limited number of parameter settings and associated sources are shown in those ordinarily skilled in the art would understand that additional parameter settings and associated sources such as PDL embedded values etc. could be evaluated and saved in the database depending upon specific implementation.

The method performs raster image processing RIPing on the print job in item . Further as shown in item this method transmits the print job from the computerized device to a marking device before or after the RIPing in item that is also operatively connected to the computerized device and prints the print job e.g. performs a marking operation on print media using the marking device in item . Similarly in item the methods herein perform finishing operations e.g. hole punching stapling cutting binding bookmaking folding etc. using finishing equipment according to finishing instructions within the print job.

In item this method also provides access to the database to view the job parameter settings and the associated sources and or change the job parameter settings using a graphic user interface that is operatively connected to the computerized device. The access to the database in item is provided before and or after the marking device prints the print job in item .

When evaluating the print job in item this method identifies potential settings and sources and final settings and sources of the job parameter settings and the associated sources. The final settings and sources are used to perform the RIPing marking and finishing operations in item while the potential setting and sources comprise a pre RIPing marking and finishing print job preparation history that is maintained in the database item and can be accessed before and or after the marking device prints the print job.

As shown in exemplary system and methods herein include various computerized devices located at various different physical locations . The computerized devices can include print servers printing devices personal computers etc. and are in communication operatively connected to one another by way of a local or wide area wired or wireless network .

The input output device is used for communications to and from the computerized device . The processor controls the various actions of the computerized device. A non transitory computer storage medium device which can be optical magnetic capacitor based etc. is readable by the processor and stores instructions that the processor executes to allow the computerized device to perform its various functions such as those described herein. Thus as shown in a body housing has one or more functional components that operate on power supplied from an alternating current AC source by the power supply . The power supply can comprise a power storage element e.g. a battery etc .

Therefore exemplary systems and printing devices herein comprise a computerized device that receives a print job. The computerized device evaluates the print job to identify job parameter settings and associated sources of such job parameter settings. A non transitory computer storage medium is operatively meaning directly or indirectly connected to the computerized device and the computerized device transmits the job parameter settings and the associated sources to a database stored within the non transitory computer storage medium . Each print job can have its own separate database.

In addition a marking device is operatively connected to the computerized device . The computerized device transmits the print job to cause the marking device to print the print job. Also a graphic user interface is operatively connected to the computerized device and the graphic user interface provides access to the database to allow a user to view the job parameter settings and the associated sources and or change the job parameter settings. The graphic user interface provides access to the database before or after the marking device prints the print job.

The computerized device raster image processes RIPs the print job before printing the print job using the marking device . Further the computerized device identifies potential settings and sources and final settings and sources of the job parameter settings and the associated sources when evaluating the print job. These final settings and sources are the ones actually used to perform the raster image processing RIPing however all the potential setting and sources are all maintained in the database to provide a pre RIPing print job preparation history. Further the database maintains the potential setting and sources and the final settings and sources before and after the marking device prints the print job to allow user diagnosis etc.

Specifically these associated sources can include for example a print job property attributes source a print job ticket attributes source a print queue attributes source a page exception attributes source etc. Similarly the job parameter settings can include for example print job properties values print job ticket values print queue values page exception source values etc.

While some exemplary structures are illustrated in the attached drawings those ordinarily skilled in the art would understand that the drawings are simplified schematic illustrations and that the claims presented below encompass many more features that are not illustrated or potentially many less but that are commonly utilized with such devices and systems. Therefore Applicants do not intend for the claims presented below to be limited by the attached drawings but instead the attached drawings are merely provided to illustrate a few ways in which the claimed features can be implemented.

Many computerized devices are discussed above. Computerized devices that include chip based central processing units CPU s input output devices including graphic user interfaces GUI memories comparators processors etc. are well known and readily available devices produced by manufacturers such as Dell Computers Round Rock Tex. USA and Apple Computer Co. Cupertino Calif. USA. Such computerized devices commonly include input output devices power supplies processors electronic storage memories wiring etc. the details of which are omitted herefrom to allow the reader to focus on the salient aspects of the systems and methods described herein. Similarly scanners and other similar peripheral equipment are available from Xerox Corporation Norwalk Conn. USA and the details of such devices are not discussed herein for purposes of brevity and reader focus.

The terms printer or printing device as used herein encompasses any apparatus such as a digital copier bookmaking machine facsimile machine multi function machine etc. which performs a print outputting function for any purpose. The details of printers printing engines etc. are well known and are not described in detail herein to keep this disclosure focused on the salient features presented. The systems and methods herein can encompass systems and methods that print in color monochrome or handle color or monochrome image data. All foregoing systems and methods are specifically applicable to electrostatographic and or xerographic machines and or processes.

A raster image processor RIP is a component used in a printing system that produces a raster image also known as a bitmap. The bitmap is then sent to a printing device for output. Raster image processing is the process that turns vector digital information into a high resolution raster image.

Thus an image input device is any device capable of obtaining color pixel values from a color image. The set of image input devices is intended to encompass a wide variety of devices such as for example digital document devices computer systems memory and storage devices networked platforms such as servers and client devices which can obtain pixel values from a source device and image capture devices. The set of image capture devices includes scanners cameras photography equipment facsimile machines photo reproduction equipment digital printing presses xerographic devices and the like. A scanner is one image capture device that optically scans images print media and the like and converts the scanned image into a digitized format. Common scanning devices include variations of the flatbed scanner generally known in the arts wherein specialized image receptors move beneath a platen and scan the media placed on the platen. Modern digital scanners typically incorporate a charge coupled device CCD or a contact image sensor CIS as the image sensing receptor s . The scanning device produces a signal of the scanned image data. Such a digital signal contains information about pixels such as color value intensity and their location within the scanned image.

Further an image output device is any device capable of rendering the image. The set of image output devices includes digital document reproduction equipment and other copier systems as are widely known in commerce photographic production and reproduction equipment monitors and other displays computer workstations and servers including a wide variety of color marking devices and the like. To render an image is to reduce the image data or a signal thereof to viewable form store the image data to memory or a storage device for subsequent retrieval or communicate the image data to another device. Such communication may take the form of transmitting a digital signal of the image data over a network. In addition the terms automated or automatically mean that once a process is started by a machine or a user one or more machines perform the process without further input from any user.

It will be appreciated that the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims. Unless specifically defined in a specific claim itself steps or components of the systems and methods herein cannot be implied or imported from any above example as limitations to any particular order number position size shape angle color or material.

