---

title: Methods and apparatus for improving device functionality during long blocking UICC operations
abstract: Methods and apparatuses are presented herein for improved operation of a Universal Integrated Circuit Card (UICC) of one or more user equipment (UE). For example, an example method of wireless communications is presented, which may include monitoring, by a UE, one or more items received from a UICC of the UE during a UICC operation. In addition, the example method may also include determining that at least one of (a) a number of the one or more items having a first item type exceeds a threshold number, or (b) an elapsed time since the UICC operation started exceeds a threshold time. Moreover, the example method may include providing, based on the determining, a notification to a user interface associated with the UE indicating that the UICC operation is ongoing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09325835&OS=09325835&RS=09325835
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09325835
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140602
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 830 441 entitled Methods and Apparatus for Improving Device Functionality During Long Blocking UICC Operations filed Jun. 3 2013 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Aspects of the present disclosure relate generally to wireless communication systems and more particularly to assisting a device avoid the loss of functionality during long blocking operations on a Universal Integrated Circuit Card UICC .

Wireless communication networks are widely deployed to provide various communication services such as telephony video data messaging broadcasts and so on. Such networks which are usually multiple access networks support communications for multiple users by sharing the available network resources. One example of such a network is the UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN . The UTRAN is the radio access network RAN defined as a part of the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS a third generation 3G mobile phone technology supported by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . The UMTS which is the successor to Global System for Mobile Communications GSM technologies currently supports various air interface standards such as Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Time Division Code Division Multiple Access TD CDMA and Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA . The UMTS also supports enhanced 3G data communications protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA which provides higher data transfer speeds and capacity to associated UMTS networks.

Currently a user equipment UE may use a UICC to enable various functionalities within an access network. In addition to telecommunication functionalities the UICC can include applications and or information used for other purposes such as mobile payments banking transportation and so on. In some cases the UICC may perform operations that have a relatively long time period before completion e.g. potentially longer than a minute such as the generation of public keys or installation of an applet. Further the UE may be required to wait for access to the UICC when the UICC continuously sends NULL procedure bytes to the UE. Such NULL procedure bytes may be sent while a UICC operation is ongoing and until the UICC operation is complete. During this waiting period the UE may not be able to send other commands to the UICC. As such other operations on the UE which may need to contact the UICC such as network authentication functions call control procedures required to establish a call and others may be blocked from accessing the UICC applications and or information. This blocking during the waiting period may severely affect the user experience and may also violate regional regulations.

Thus improved apparatus and methods to assist a device avoid the loss of functionality during long blocking operations with a UICC may be desired.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with one or more aspects and corresponding disclosure thereof various aspects are described in connection with improving device functionality during long blocking operations with a UICC. In an aspect an example method of wireless communications is presented which may include monitoring by a UE one or more items received from a UICC of the UE during a UICC operation. Furthermore the example method may include determining that at least one of a a number of a first item of the one or more items that have been received from the UICC exceeds a threshold number or b an elapsed time since the UICC operation started exceeds a threshold time. In addition the example method may include providing based on the determining a first notification to a user interface associated with the UE indicating that the UICC operation is ongoing.

In an additional aspect the present disclosure presents an example apparatus for wireless communications which may include means for monitoring by a UE one or more items received from a UICC of the UE during a UICC operation. Furthermore the example apparatus may include means for determining that at least one of a a number of the one or more items having a first item type exceeds a threshold number or b an elapsed time since the UICC operation started exceeds a threshold time. Additionally the example apparatus may include means for providing based on the determining a first notification to a user interface associated with the UE indicating that the UICC operation is ongoing.

Moreover the present disclosure presents an example apparatus for wireless communication which may include a monitoring component configured to monitor by a UE one or more items received from a UICC of the UE during a UICC operation. In addition the UE may include a threshold managing component configured to determine that at least one of a a number of the one or more items having a first item type exceeds a threshold number or b an elapsed time since the UICC operation started exceeds a threshold time. Additionally the UE may include a user interface managing component configured to provide based on the determining a first notification to a user interface associated with the UE indicating that the UICC operation is ongoing.

In a further aspect of the present disclosure an example non transitory computer readable medium is presented that may include instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to monitor by a UE one or more items received from a UICC of the UE during a UICC operation. In addition the computer readable medium may further include instructions that when executed by the processor may cause the processor to determine that at least one of a a number of the one or more items having a first item type exceeds a threshold number or b an elapsed time since the UICC operation started exceeds a threshold time. Furthermore the computer readable medium may further include instructions that when executed by the processor may cause the processor to provide based on the determining a first notification to a user interface associated with the UE indicating that the UICC operation is ongoing.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of various configurations and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the concepts described herein may be practiced. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of various concepts. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that these concepts may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring such concepts. For purposes of the present disclosure the term component refers to one of the parts that make up a system and may be hardware or software and may be subdivided into other components. The terms module component unit and structure may be used interchangeably herein.

The various concepts presented throughout this disclosure may be implemented across a broad variety of telecommunication systems network architectures and communication standards. By way of example and without limitation the aspects of the present disclosure illustrated in which is a schematic diagram illustrating a system for wireless communication according to an example configuration. includes an example network entity which may communicate wirelessly with one or more UEs over one or more wireless communication channels which may include in a non limiting aspect data communication channels paging channels broadcast channels control channels or any other over the air OTA communication channel known in the art.

UE may comprise any type of mobile device such as but not limited to a smartphone cellular telephone mobile phone laptop computer tablet computer or other portable networked device. In addition UE may also be referred to by those skilled in the art as a mobile station a subscriber station a mobile unit a subscriber unit a wireless unit a remote unit a mobile device a wireless device a wireless communications device a remote device a mobile subscriber station an access terminal a mobile terminal a wireless terminal a remote terminal a handset a terminal a user agent a mobile client a client a machine to machine M2M device a device associated with the Internet of Things or some other suitable terminology. In general UE may be small and light enough to be considered portable and may be configured to communicate wirelessly via an over the air communication link using one or more OTA communication protocols described herein.

Furthermore network entity of may comprise one or more of any type of network module such as an access point a macro cell including a base station BS node B eNodeB eNB a relay a peer to peer device an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server a mobile switching center MSC a radio network controller RNC or a small cell. As used herein the term small cell may refer to an access point or to a corresponding coverage area of the access point where the access point in this case has a relatively low transmit power or relatively small coverage as compared to for example the transmit power or coverage area of a macro network access point or macro cell. For instance a macro cell may cover a relatively large geographic area such as but not limited to several kilometers in radius. In contrast a small cell may cover a relatively small geographic area such as but not limited to a home a building or a floor of a building. As such a small cell may include but is not limited to an apparatus such as a base station BS an access point a femto node a femtocell a pico node a micro node a Node B evolved Node B eNB home Node B HNB or home evolved Node B HeNB . Therefore the term small cell as used herein refers to a relatively low transmit power and or a relatively small coverage area cell as compared to a macro cell. Additionally network entity may communicate with one or more other network entities of wireless and or core networks

Additionally system may include any network type such as but not limited to wide area networks WAN wireless networks e.g. 802.11 or cellular network the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN network ad hoc networks personal area networks e.g. Bluetooth or other combinations or permutations of network protocols and network types. Such network s may include a single local area network LAN or wide area network WAN or combinations of LANs or WANs such as the Internet. Such networks may comprise a Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA system and may communicate with one or more UEs according to this standard. As those skilled in the art will readily appreciate various aspects described throughout this disclosure may be extended to other telecommunication systems network architectures and communication standards. By way of example various aspects may be extended to other Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS systems such as Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Packet Access Plus HSPA and Time Division CDMA TD CDMA . Various aspects may also be extended to systems employing Long Term Evolution LTE in FDD TDD or both modes LTE Advanced LTE A in FDD TDD or both modes CDMA2000 Evolution Data Optimized EV DO Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Ultra Wideband UWB Bluetooth and or other suitable systems. The actual telecommunication standard network architecture and or communication standard employed will depend on the specific application and the overall design constraints imposed on the system. The various devices coupled to the network s e.g. UEs network entity may be coupled to a core network via one or more wired or wireless connections.

The UE may further include a universal integrated circuit card UICC and a UICC manager configured to communicate with and manage operation of the UICC . In a UMTS system the UICC may further include a universal subscriber identity module USIM which contains a user s subscription information to a network. Furthermore though UICC and UICC manager may comprise separate and distinct components as illustrated in UICC manager may alternatively comprise a subcomponent of UICC or may be otherwise included in UICC .

In an aspect some operations between the UICC and the UE may be performed at a runtime e.g. during public key generation operations etc. . In an aspect the UICC may send one or more NULL procedure bytes to the UE . For purposes of the present disclosure the one or more NULL procedure bytes may include one or more bytes that may be sent from the UICC to the UE or a component processor therein that are configured to indicate that a UICC operation is still pending or otherwise ongoing. In some examples the one or more NULL bytes may comprise a byte having a value of zero e.g. a byte with a 0 00 hexadecimal value . As discussed in further detail with respect to the flowchart provided in below when UE has received the NULL procedure bytes more than a threshold number of times e.g. 5 times and or for more than a threshold amount of time e.g. 15 seconds the UE may prompt a user interface to notify the user that the UE is waiting for UICC to complete what is a time consuming operation.

Turning to an example UICC manager of for example is presented as comprising a plurality of individual components for carrying out the one or more methods or processes described herein. In an aspect each of the components of UICC manager and UICC manager itself may be software components running in a processor e.g. processor of below resident stored in a computer readable medium e.g. computer readable medium of below one or more hardware modules coupled to the processor or some combination thereof.

For example in an aspect UICC manager may include a monitoring component which may be configured to monitor one or more items received from a UICC of the UE during a UICC operation. For purposes of the present disclosure the term item may refer to a piece of structured data e.g. message field flag packet bit byte or any other form of data from which information about various aspects of operations functionality and or applications related to the UICC or the UE may be determined or identified. For example the one or more items may include UE application UICC or subscriber identity specific information that allows an application executed by the UE or the UE generally to determine the status of a particular UICC operation e.g. whether the UICC operation is ongoing or that the UICC operation has completed . In some examples each of the one or more items may have an associated item type e.g. first item type second item type etc. which indicates a type class classification or kind of item. For example in an aspect the one or more items may include one or more NULL procedure bytes received from the UICC. Thus in an aspect a first item type may correspond to a NULL procedure byte. In an additional aspect the one or more items may include one or more indicators which may comprise a message field flag packet bit byte or any other form of data that indicate that a UICC operation is complete. Therefore in an aspect a second item type may correspond to an indicator that indicates that a UICC operation is complete. Furthermore for purposes of the present disclosure a UICC operation may be considered complete where each computation calculation method or any other process associated with the UICC operation has been fully executed or otherwise completed.

Furthermore for purposes of the present disclosure a UICC operation may refer to any operation associated with a UE e.g. UE of that involves communicating with writing data to and or reading data from UICC . In some examples the UICC operation may have an associated type or type of UICC operation which for purposes of the present disclosure may include but is not limited to a public key generation operation or installation of an applet or any other software or machine executable instructions on the UICC. Furthermore for purposes of the present disclosure a public key generation operation may include any operation performed by a UICC associated with generating one or more public keys for example for data encryption and or information security purposes.

In addition in some examples one or more functions associated with the UICC may be blocked from proceeding during the UICC operation e.g. by UICC manager . In some examples the blocked functions may include one or more authentication functions associated with acquiring UE access to a network or one or more call control functions to perform a voice or data call associated with the UE.

In addition UICC manager may include a threshold managing component which may be configured to compare one or more values against one or more thresholds associated with the UICC. In an aspect these thresholds may include a threshold number of items having a first item type that have been received by the UICC for example during an operation. In some examples the threshold number may comprise any number e.g. integer numbers from zero to 500 including any number from zero to ten and may in some examples comprise five. Alternatively or additionally the thresholds may include threshold time . In an aspect an elapsed time since the UICC operation started may be compared against threshold time to determine whether the elapsed time exceeds the threshold time . In some examples the threshold time may comprise any period of time such as but not limited to anywhere from one second to 100 seconds including any time period from five to twenty five seconds including fifteen seconds.

Furthermore in an aspect threshold managing component may be configured to determine that a number of the one or more items received from the UICC having the first item type exceeds the threshold number . In an example where the first item type comprises a NULL procedure byte the threshold managing component may determine based on the threshold number that too many NULL procedure bytes have been received by the UE and therefore that the UICC operation is a relatively high time consuming operation e.g. the UICC operation is taking too long to complete . Alternatively or additionally threshold managing component may be configured to determine that an elapsed time since the UICC operation started exceeds the threshold time . For example the threshold managing component may determine based on the threshold time whether the UICC operation is a time consuming operation e.g. the UICC operation is taking too long to complete . In an aspect these determinations may be made based on the comparison of one or more values e.g. a number of items having a first item type received from the UICC and or an elapsed time since the UICC operation started against the one or more thresholds e.g. threshold number and threshold time performed by threshold managing component .

Additionally UICC manager may include a user interface managing component which may be configured to provide a one or more notifications e.g. first second or further notifications to a user interface associated with the UE. In an aspect such notifications may include one or more objects e.g. text box message or the like conveying information that can be directly displayed to a user via the user interface . For example the user interface managing component may be configured to provide a first notification to a user interface associated with the UE indicating that a UICC operation is ongoing. Alternatively or additionally the user interface managing component may be configured to provide a second notification to the user interface indicating successful completion of the UICC operation to the user interface . In an aspect the user interface may be configured to display the one or more notifications to a user via a display e.g. display screen touch screen or other display device associated with the UE .

Furthermore user interface managing component may be configured to provide e.g. display or otherwise convey to the user via a display an abort option through the user interface to allow a user an option to terminate or otherwise abort the UICC operation prior to completion of the UICC operation. Thus for purposes of the present disclosure the term abort option may include any command or instruction that when executed by the UICC manager may cause the UICC manager to terminate or otherwise abort an ongoing UICC operation prior to completion of the UICC operation. In an aspect the user interface may also provide the user a button to abort this pending UICC operation for example if some other more critical task e.g. an emergency call is attempting to access the UICC. In an aspect selection of the button by user input user activation or some other user action may prompt the UE to reset the UICC . As used herein the button may be a physical button on the UE a software button on a touch screen or any other virtual button presented to a user via user interface for potential activation by touching a screen etc. Further the button may be disabled or removed once the UICC operation is completed. In some examples abort option may be provided to a user after a time duration beyond an estimated total time for the UICC operation has elapsed. For purposes of the present disclosure an estimated total time for the UICC operation may include an estimation of a time period or duration associated with the particular UICC operation. This estimated total time may be based on historical time periods of past executions of the UICC operations e.g. a time period of a preceding iteration of a UICC operation or an average of all past instances of the UICC operation or may include a static time period or duration associated with the UICC operation that may be stored in memory. In an aspect user interface managing component may obtain e.g. look up in memory compute receive or otherwise obtain an estimated total time for the UICC operation and may start a timer not shown when the UICC operation has started. If the time period of the timer exceeds the estimated total time for the UICC operation by a particular time period or amount of time the user interface managing component may provide the abort option to the user via user interface .

In another aspect the user interface managing component may be configured to provide an estimated progress status indication for the UICC operation through the user interface . For example the user interface may display the estimated progress status indication e.g. a progress bar pie etc. to the user to show the progress of the UICC operation. The UICC operation estimated progress status indication may indicate a percentage of completion of the UICC operation or conversely may indicate a remaining percentage for completion of the UICC operation. In an additional or alternative aspect the UE may query the estimated time of the UICC operation before the operation starts. In another aspect the estimated time may be based on the type of UICC operation and or prior UICC operations performed by the UE.

In an additional aspect user interface managing component may be configured to remove e.g. not display the first notification from the user interface . Furthermore UICC managing component may include a UICC operation terminating component which may be configured to terminate a UICC operation prior to completion of the UICC operation. In some examples UICC operation terminating component may be configured to terminate a UICC operation based on receiving a user input through the user interface indicating that the abort option has been selected for example by a user selecting or otherwise activating button . In an aspect the UICC operation terminating component may be configured to communicate with the UICC in a manner so as to avoid resetting the UICC upon termination of the operation. In another aspect such a communication may reset the UICC.

Through exemplary components and are presented in reference to UICC manager they are not exclusive. Instead UICC manager may include additional or alternative components configured to perform aspects of the present disclosure and the claims recited below.

Turning to an example methodology is displayed that improves UE functionality for example during long blocking operations with a UICC. In an aspect the methodology may be performed by a UE e.g. UE of with a UICC e.g. UICC of operating within the UE or may be performed by one or more components within the UE e.g. UICC manager of or the components of therein .

In an aspect of methodology at block the UE may monitor communications with a UICC during a UICC operation. In an aspect monitoring component of may monitor such communications with the UICC of . For example in an aspect at block the UE may monitor one or more items received from the UICC of the UE during the UICC operation. In an aspect an example item that may be monitored is a NULL procedure byte i.e. a first item type that may be sent by the UICC when the UICC operation is still pending. In an additional aspect an example item that may be monitored is an indication that indicates that a UE operation is complete i.e. a second item type .

In addition at block the UE may determine whether the UICC operation has exceeded a threshold. In an aspect such a determination may be performed by threshold managing component and may be based on the reception of one or more items having a first item type where the first item type may include a NULL procedure byte. Thus in an aspect the threshold may be based on a number of NULL procedure bytes received. In another aspect the threshold may be based on a time elapsed since a command was sent to the UICC i.e. since the UICC operation started .

Furthermore in an aspect at block if the UE determines that the UICC operation has not exceeded or in some examples has not met the threshold then the methodology may return to the monitoring at block . As noted above the determination may be performed by threshold managing component . Alternatively if the UE determines that the UICC operation has exceeded or in some examples has met the threshold at block the UE may provide at block a first notification to a user interface at least indicating that the UICC is ongoing. In an aspect threshold managing component of may make the determination and the user interface managing component of may send the first notification to the user interface of .

In addition at block as part of providing the first notification the UE may provide an estimated progress status indication to the user interface. In an aspect the progress may be estimated based on the type of UICC operation being performed. In another aspect the progress may be estimated based on a value received from the UICC such as a percentage or fraction of total calculations or processes of the operation that have been completed. In still another aspect the progress may be estimated based on prior UICC operations performed by the UE. For example the UICC manager may be configured to store a number of calculations or processes that were required to complete the operation in the past and may subsequently utilize this prior UICC operation information to determine an estimated progress of a current operation. In addition in some examples the user interface managing component of may perform the progress estimation.

Additionally at block as an additional and or alternative part of providing the first notification the UE may provide an abort option to prematurely terminate the UICC operation. In an aspect the user interface managing component of may prompt the user interface of to provide an abort option along with the first notification. Furthermore in an aspect in which the first notification includes an abort option at block the UE may determine whether the abort option is selected. In an aspect this determination may be performed by the user interface managing component .

In an additional aspect of methodology if the UE determines that the abort option has been selected at block then at block the UE may terminate the UICC operation. In an aspect the UICC operation terminating component may terminate the UICC operation based on reception of the first notification that the abort option has been selected. Furthermore at block the UE may determine whether the UICC operation is complete. In an aspect the UE may perform the determination where the abort option has not been selected at block . In an aspect the UICC manager of may perform such a determination. If however at block the UE determines that the UICC operation is not complete then methodology may return to block . As noted above the UICC manager may perform this determination.

In an aspect if the UE determines that the UICC operation is complete at block then at block the UE may provide an indication of the successful completion of the UICC operation to the user interface. In an aspect the indication may be through removal of a previously present notification. In some examples the UICC manager may determine through interactions with the UICC that the UICC operation is complete and may notify the user interface managing component of . Further the user interface managing component may provide a second notification to the user interface of indicating that the UICC operation is complete.

The bus may also link various other circuits such as timing sources peripherals voltage regulators and power management circuits which are well known in the art and therefore will not be described any further. A bus interface provides an interface between the bus and a transceiver . The transceiver provides a means for communicating with various other apparatus over a transmission medium. Depending upon the nature of the apparatus an input output component e.g. keypad display speaker microphone joystick may also be provided. In some aspects the input output component may include or may be part of the user interface of .

The processor is responsible for managing the bus and general processing including the execution of software stored on the computer readable medium . The software when executed by the processor causes the processing system to perform the various functions described infra for any particular apparatus. The computer readable medium may also be used for storing data that is manipulated by the processor when executing software.

In one configuration the apparatus may comprise an apparatus for wireless communication and may include means for executing one or more functions methods methodologies or processes described by the present disclosure. Such means may be realized for example by one or more components of UICC manager computer readable medium and or processor . For example apparatus may include means for monitoring by a UE one or more items received from a UICC of the UE during a UICC operation means for determining that a number of a first item of the one or more items that have been received from the UICC exceeds a threshold number means for determining that an elapsed time since the UICC operation started exceeds a threshold time and means for providing a first notification to a user interface associated with the UE at least indicating that the UICC operation is ongoing. In an aspect the means for providing may be further configured to provide an abort option through the user interface to allow a user an option to terminate the UICC operation prior to completion. In an aspect the means for providing may be further configured to provide an estimated progress status indication for the UICC operation through the user interface e.g. input output component . In such an aspect the means for providing may be further configured to provide an abort option through the user interface to allow a user to terminate the UICC operation prior to completion. In a further aspect the apparatus may further include means for receiving a user input through the user interface indicating that the abort option has been selected and means for terminating the UICC operation prior to completion. In such an aspect the apparatus may include means for receiving a second item of the one or more items that indicates that the UICC operation is complete and at least one of means for removing the first notification from the user interface or means for providing a second notification indicating a successful completion of the UICC operation to the user interface. Moreover the means for providing may be further configured to provide an option to make an emergency call.

The various concepts presented throughout this disclosure may be implemented across a broad variety of telecommunication systems network architectures and communication standards. By way of example and without limitation the aspects of the present disclosure illustrated in are presented with reference to a UMTS system employing a W CDMA air interface. A UMTS network includes three interacting domains a Core Network CN a UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN and UE which may comprise UE of . As illustrated in UE may include a UICC and a UICC manager as described herein with reference to and may be configured to perform aspects of methodology of . In this example the UTRAN provides various wireless services including telephony video data messaging broadcasts and or other services. The UTRAN may include a plurality of Radio Network Subsystems RNSs such as an RNS each controlled by a respective Radio Network Controller RNC such as an RNC . Here the UTRAN may include any number of RNCs and RNSs in addition to the RNCs and RNSs illustrated herein. The RNC is an apparatus responsible for among other things assigning reconfiguring and releasing radio resources within the RNS . The RNC may be interconnected to other RNCs not shown in the UTRAN through various types of interfaces such as a direct physical connection a virtual network or the like using any suitable transport network.

Communication between a UE and a Node B may be considered as including a physical PHY layer and a medium access control MAC layer. Further communication between a UE and an RNC by way of a respective Node B may be considered as including a radio resource control RRC layer. In the instant specification the PHY layer may be considered layer the MAC layer may be considered layer and the RRC layer may be considered layer . Information hereinbelow utilizes terminology introduced in Radio Resource Control RRC Protocol Specification 3GPP TS 25.331 v9.1.0 incorporated herein by reference.

The geographic region covered by the SRNS may be divided into a number of cells with a radio transceiver apparatus serving each cell. A radio transceiver apparatus is commonly referred to as a Node B in UMTS applications but may also be referred to by those skilled in the art as a base station BS a base transceiver station BTS a radio base station a radio transceiver a transceiver function a basic service set BSS an extended service set ESS an access point AP or some other suitable terminology. For clarity three Node Bs are shown in each SRNS however the SRNSs may include any number of wireless Node Bs. The Node Bs provide wireless access points to a core network CN for any number of mobile apparatuses. Examples of a mobile apparatus include a cellular phone a smart phone a session initiation protocol SIP phone a laptop a notebook a netbook a smartbook a personal digital assistant PDA a satellite radio a global positioning system GPS device a multimedia device a video device a digital audio player e.g. MP3 player a camera a game console or any other similar functioning device. The mobile apparatus is commonly referred to as user equipment UE in UMTS applications but may also be referred to by those skilled in the art as a mobile station MS a subscriber station a mobile unit a subscriber unit a wireless unit a remote unit a mobile device a wireless device a wireless communications device a remote device a mobile subscriber station an access terminal AT a mobile terminal a wireless terminal a remote terminal a handset a terminal a user agent a mobile client a client or some other suitable terminology. As indicated above in a UMTS system the UE may further include a UICC which contains a user s subscription information to a network and may also comprise UICC manager of . For illustrative purposes one UE is shown in communication with a number of the Node Bs . The downlink DL also called the forward link refers to the communication link from a Node B to a UE and the uplink UL also called the reverse link refers to the communication link from a UE to a Node B .

The core network interfaces with one or more access networks such as the UTRAN . As shown the core network is a GSM core network. However as those skilled in the art will recognize the various concepts presented throughout this disclosure may be implemented in a RAN or other suitable access network to provide UEs with access to types of core networks other than GSM networks.

The core network includes a circuit switched CS domain and a packet switched PS domain. Some of the circuit switched elements are a Mobile services Switching Centre MSC a Visitor location register VLR and a Gateway MSC. Packet switched elements include a Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN and a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN . Some network elements like EIR HLR VLR and AuC may be shared by both of the circuit switched and packet switched domains. In the illustrated example the core network supports circuit switched services with a MSC and a GMSC . In some applications the GMSC may be referred to as a media gateway MGW . One or more RNCs such as the RNC may be connected to the MSC . The MSC is an apparatus that controls call setup call routing and UE mobility functions. The MSC also includes a visitor location register VLR that contains subscriber related information for the duration that a UE is in the coverage area of the MSC . The GMSC provides a gateway through the MSC for the UE to access a circuit switched network . The core network includes a home location register HLR containing subscriber data such as the data reflecting the details of the services to which a particular user has subscribed. The HLR is also associated with an authentication center AuC that contains subscriber specific authentication data. When a call is received for a particular UE the GMSC queries the HLR to determine the UE s location and forwards the call to the particular MSC serving that location.

The core network also supports packet data services with a serving GPRS support node SGSN and a gateway GPRS support node GGSN . GPRS which stands for General Packet Radio Service is designed to provide packet data services at speeds higher than those available with standard circuit switched data services. The GGSN provides a connection for the UTRAN to a packet based network . The packet based network may be the Internet a private data network or some other suitable packet based network. The primary function of the GGSN is to provide the UEs with packet based network connectivity. Data packets may be transferred between the GGSN and the UEs through the SGSN which performs primarily the same functions in the packet based domain as the MSC performs in the circuit switched domain.

The UMTS air interface is a spread spectrum Direct Sequence Code Division Multiple Access DS CDMA system. The spread spectrum DS CDMA spreads user data through multiplication by a sequence of pseudorandom bits called chips. The W CDMA air interface for UMTS is based on such direct sequence spread spectrum technology and additionally calls for a frequency division duplexing FDD . FDD uses a different carrier frequency for the uplink UL and downlink DL between a Node B and a UE . Another air interface for UMTS that utilizes DS CDMA and uses time division duplexing is the TD SCDMA air interface. Those skilled in the art will recognize that although various examples described herein may refer to a WCDMA air interface the underlying principles are equally applicable to a TD SCDMA air interface.

Referring to an access network in a UTRAN architecture is illustrated. In an example aspect the UTRAN architecture may be associated with a network associated with UE having UICC and UICC manager and may include network entity of . The multiple access wireless communication system includes multiple cellular regions cells including cells and each of which may include one or more sectors. The multiple sectors can be formed by groups of antennas with each antenna responsible for communication with UEs in a portion of the cell. For example in cell antenna groups and may each correspond to a different sector. In cell antenna groups and each correspond to a different sector. In cell antenna groups and each correspond to a different sector. The cells and may include several wireless communication devices e.g. UEs of which may be in communication with one or more sectors of each cell or . For example UEs and may be in communication with Node B UEs and may be in communication with Node B and UEs and which may represent UE of can be in communication with Node B . Here each Node B is configured to provide an access point to a core network see for all the UEs in the respective cells and .

As the UE moves from the illustrated location in cell into cell a serving cell change SCC or handover may occur in which communication with the UE transitions from the cell which may be referred to as the source cell to cell which may be referred to as the target cell. Management of the handover procedure may take place at the UE at the Node Bs corresponding to the respective cells at a radio network controller see or at another suitable node in the wireless network. For example during a call with the source cell or at any other time the UE may monitor various parameters of the source cell as well as various parameters of neighboring cells such as cells and . Further depending on the quality of these parameters the UE may maintain communication with one or more of the neighboring cells. During this time the UE may maintain an Active Set that is a list of cells that the UE is simultaneously connected to i.e. the UTRA cells that are currently assigning a downlink dedicated physical channel DPCH or fractional downlink dedicated physical channel F DPCH to the UE may constitute the Active Set .

The modulation and multiple access scheme employed by the access network may vary depending on the particular telecommunications standard being deployed. By way of example the standard may include Evolution Data Optimized EV DO or Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB . EV DO and UMB are air interface standards promulgated by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 as part of the CDMA2000 family of standards and employs CDMA to provide broadband Internet access to mobile stations. The standard may alternately be Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA employing Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA such as TD SCDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM employing TDMA and Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 and Flash OFDM employing OFDMA. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE LTE Advanced and GSM are described in documents from the 3GPP organization. CDMA2000 and UMB are described in documents from the 3GPP2 organization. The actual wireless communication standard and the multiple access technology employed will depend on the specific application and the overall design constraints imposed on the system.

At the UE a receiver receives the downlink transmission through an antenna and processes the transmission to recover the information modulated onto the carrier. The information recovered by the receiver is provided to a receive frame processor which parses each frame and provides information from the frames to a channel processor and the data control and reference signals to a receive processor . The receive processor then performs the inverse of the processing performed by the transmit processor in the Node B . More specifically the receive processor descrambles and despreads the symbols and then determines the most likely signal constellation points transmitted by the Node B based on the modulation scheme. These soft decisions may be based on channel estimates computed by the channel processor . The soft decisions are then decoded and deinterleaved to recover the data control and reference signals. The CRC codes are then checked to determine whether the frames were successfully decoded. The data carried by the successfully decoded frames will then be provided to a data sink which represents applications running in the UE and or various user interfaces e.g. display . Control signals carried by successfully decoded frames will be provided to a controller processor . When frames are unsuccessfully decoded by the receiver processor the controller processor may also use an acknowledgement ACK and or negative acknowledgement NACK protocol to support retransmission requests for those frames.

In the uplink data from a data source and control signals from the controller processor are provided to a transmit processor . The data source may represent applications running in the UE and various user interfaces e.g. keyboard . Similar to the functionality described in connection with the downlink transmission by the Node B the transmit processor provides various signal processing functions including CRC codes coding and interleaving to facilitate FEC mapping to signal constellations spreading with OVSFs and scrambling to produce a series of symbols. Channel estimates derived by the channel processor from a reference signal transmitted by the Node B or from feedback contained in the midamble transmitted by the Node B may be used to select the appropriate coding modulation spreading and or scrambling schemes. The symbols produced by the transmit processor will be provided to a transmit frame processor to create a frame structure. The transmit frame processor creates this frame structure by multiplexing the symbols with information from the controller processor resulting in a series of frames. The frames are then provided to a transmitter which provides various signal conditioning functions including amplification filtering and modulating the frames onto a carrier for uplink transmission over the wireless medium through the antenna .

The uplink transmission is processed at the Node B in a manner similar to that described in connection with the receiver function at the UE . A receiver receives the uplink transmission through the antenna and processes the transmission to recover the information modulated onto the carrier. The information recovered by the receiver is provided to a receive frame processor which parses each frame and provides information from the frames to the channel processor and the data control and reference signals to a receive processor . The receive processor performs the inverse of the processing performed by the transmit processor in the UE . The data and control signals carried by the successfully decoded frames may then be provided to a data sink and the controller processor respectively. If some of the frames were unsuccessfully decoded by the receive processor the controller processor may also use an acknowledgement ACK and or negative acknowledgement NACK protocol to support retransmission requests for those frames.

The controller processors and may be used to direct the operation at the Node B and the UE respectively. For example the controller processors and may provide various functions including timing peripheral interfaces voltage regulation power management and other control functions. The computer readable media of memories and may store data and software for the Node B and the UE respectively. A scheduler processor at the Node B may be used to allocate resources to the UEs and schedule downlink and or uplink transmissions for the UEs.

Several aspects of a telecommunications system have been presented with reference to an HSPA system. As those skilled in the art will readily appreciate various aspects described throughout this disclosure may be extended to other telecommunication systems network architectures and communication standards.

By way of example various aspects may be extended to other UMTS systems such as W CDMA TD SCDMA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA High Speed Packet Access Plus HSPA and TD CDMA. Various aspects may also be extended to systems employing Long Term Evolution LTE in FDD TDD or both modes LTE Advanced LTE A in FDD TDD or both modes CDMA2000 Evolution Data Optimized EV DO Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Ultra Wideband UWB Bluetooth and or other suitable systems. The actual telecommunication standard network architecture and or communication standard employed will depend on the specific application and the overall design constraints imposed on the system.

In accordance with various aspects of the disclosure an element or any portion of an element or any combination of elements may be implemented with a processing system that includes one or more processors. Examples of processors include microprocessors microcontrollers digital signal processors DSPs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs programmable logic devices PLDs state machines gated logic discrete hardware circuits and other suitable hardware configured to perform the various functionality described throughout this disclosure. One or more processors in the processing system may execute software. Software shall be construed broadly to mean instructions instruction sets code code segments program code programs subprograms software modules applications software applications software packages routines subroutines objects executables threads of execution procedures functions etc. whether referred to as software firmware middleware microcode hardware description language or otherwise. The software may reside on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium may be a non transitory computer readable medium. A non transitory computer readable medium includes by way of example a magnetic storage device e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strip an optical disk e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD a smart card a flash memory device e.g. card stick key drive random access memory RAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM a register a removable disk and any other suitable medium for storing software and or instructions that may be accessed and read by a computer. The computer readable medium may also include by way of example a carrier wave a transmission line and any other suitable medium for transmitting software and or instructions that may be accessed and read by a computer. The computer readable medium may be resident in the processing system external to the processing system or distributed across multiple entities including the processing system. The computer readable medium may be embodied in a computer program product. By way of example a computer program product may include a computer readable medium in packaging materials. Those skilled in the art will recognize how best to implement the described functionality presented throughout this disclosure depending on the particular application and the overall design constraints imposed on the overall system.

It is to be understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the methods disclosed is an illustration of exemplary processes. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the methods or methodologies described herein may be rearranged. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented unless specifically recited therein. The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language of the claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. A phrase referring to at least one of a list of items refers to any combination of those items including single members. As an example at least one of a b or c is intended to cover a b c a and b a and c b and c and a b and c. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for or in the case of a method claim the element is recited using the phrase step for. 

