---

title: Music streaming using supported services
abstract: An example method includes sending a first message from a media playback system to a curating service server where the first message includes an indication of a service provider that is accessible to the media playback system. The example method further includes the media playback system receiving a message from the curating service server, where the message includes a media item identifier. The example method further includes the media playback system sending a request for a media item including the media item identifier to a service provider server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09646085&OS=09646085&RS=09646085
owner: Sonos, Inc.
number: 09646085
owner_city: Santa Barbara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140627
---
The disclosure is related to consumer goods and more particularly to methods systems products features services and other elements directed to media playback or some aspect thereof.

Options for accessing and listening to digital audio in an out loud setting were limited until in 2003 when SONOS Inc. filed for one of its first patent applications entitled Method for Synchronizing Audio Playback between Multiple Networked Devices and began offering a media playback system for sale in 2005. The Sonos Wireless HiFi System enables people to experience music from many sources via one or more networked playback devices. Through a software control application installed on a smartphone tablet or computer one can play what he or she wants in any room that has a networked playback device. Additionally using the controller for example different songs can be streamed to each room with a playback device rooms can be grouped together for synchronous playback or the same song can be heard in all rooms synchronously.

Given the ever growing interest in digital media there continues to be a need to develop consumer accessible technologies to further enhance the listening experience.

The drawings are for the purpose of illustrating example embodiments but it is understood that the inventions are not limited to the arrangements and instrumentality shown in the drawings.

Media provision services e.g. SPOTIFY PANDORA RHAPSODY BEATS MUSIC etc. may use customized identification systems for identifying music tracks albums artists and other aspects of media items. For example a media provision service may assign one or more media item identifiers to a media item. The assigned media item identifiers may be different than media item identifiers assigned to the media item by another media provision service. For example a media item identifier assigned to a media item provided by a first service might be Service1 track abcdef0123234 while a media item identifier assigned to the same media item provided by a second service might be Service2 ft2345049. The term media item identifier as used herein is meant to broadly encompass data that identifies or characterizes any aspect of a media item including but not limited to track titles albums artists memory locations or addresses uniform resource identifiers URIs uniform resource locators URLs service providers or other aspects of a media item.

Accordingly when a media provision service provides a media item identifier to a media playback system the media playback system can later request that the media provision service provide the media item by providing the media item identifier back to the media provision service.

Some services may provide other media related services in addition to media provision services. For instance media curating services curate media items aggregated from other services e.g. media provision services . In other words a media curating service may aggregate media items using media item identifiers unique to the media curating service but not actually provide the media items for playback. Of course a media provision service may also include media curating services. For example a media curating service e.g. BLUE NOTE SLACKER BEATS MUSIC may provide curated media by providing media item identifiers associated with one or more media provision services. In one example a record label may curate its own media and provide media item identifiers associated with one or more media provision services where the record label s media items are available. In the instance where the media curating service does not provide access to the actual media item a media playback system accessing the media curating service would be unable to access the actual media item directly from the media curating service. Rather the media playback system would use the media item identifiers associated media provision services to access the media item.

As such according to some example implementations described herein the example methods systems and circuitry may facilitate interaction between a media playback system and media services such as media curating services and media provision services in a more efficient and or desirable manner.

Accordingly some examples described herein involve among other things sending from a media playback system a first message to a curating service. The first message may include an indication of a service provider to which the media playback system has access. The media playback system may receive a second message from the curating service that includes a media item identifier. The media playback system may then send a request that includes the media item identifier to the service provider. Other aspects of the examples will be made apparent in the remainder of the description herein.

In one aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a media playback system configured to perform functions. The functions include sending a first message to a curating service. The first message includes an indication of a service provider to which the media playback system has access. The functions further include the media playback system receiving a second message from a curating service. The second message may include a media item identifier. The functions further include the media playback system sending a request to the service provider for a media item. The media item may be identified by a media item identifier.

In one aspect a method is provided. The method involves receiving a message at a curating service from a media playback system. The message includes a service provider access identifier that indicates the media playback system has access to the service provider. Based on the first message the curating service determines that the service provider has access to media corresponding to a media item identifier. The curating service then transmits a message to the media playback system that includes the media item identifier.

In another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to perform functions. The computing device may for example be a server device. The functions include receiving a message from a media playback system that indicates the media playback system has access to a service provider. Based on the message the computing device determines that the service provider has access to media corresponding to a media item identifier. Then the computing device transmits a message to the media playback system that includes the media item identifier.

In another aspect a method is provided. The method involves a media playback system determining one or more service providers are accessible by the media playback system. The method further involves generating a message header that includes an identification of the accessible service providers. The method further includes the media playback system sending a message to a curating service that includes the generated message header.

In another aspect a method is provided. The method involves a controller application installed on a media playback system storing service provider identification data that indicates the media playback system has access to a service provider. The method further involves a curator application installed on the media playback device detecting a media item. The method further involves the media playback system determines that the media item is available at the service provider. The method further involves the media playback system sending a request to the service provider for the media item where the media item is identified by a media item identifier.

In another aspect a media playback system is provided. The media playback system includes a processor and memory storing instructions that when executed by the media playback system cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions include sending from a media playback system a first message to a curating service. The first message may include a service provider access identifier that indicates a service provider to which the media playback system has access. The media playback system may receive a second message from the curating service that includes a media item identifier. The media playback device may then send a request that includes the media item identifier to the service provider.

In another aspect a system is provided. The system includes a first computing device and a second computing device. In one example the computing devices are server systems. Each computing device includes a processor and memory storing instructions that when executed by the computing device cause the computing device to perform functions. The functions at the first computing device include receiving a first message from a media playback system that includes an indication of a service provider to which the media playback system has access. The functions at the first computing device further include sending a second message to the media playback system that includes a media item identifier. The functions at the second computing device include receiving a request from the media playback system that includes the media item identifier.

In another aspect a non transitory computer readable memory is provided. The non transitory computer readable memory has stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to perform functions. The computing device may for example be a media playback device. The functions include sending a first message to a curating service that includes an indication of a service provider to which the media playback system has access. The functions further include receiving a second message from the curating service that includes a media item identifier. The functions further include sending a request to the service provider for a media item where the media item is identified by the media item identifier.

In another aspect a media playback system is provided. The media playback system includes a processor and memory storing instructions that when executed by the media playback system cause the media playback system to perform functions. The functions include determining a service provider to which the media playback system has access. The functions further include generating a message header that includes an identification of the service provider. The functions further include sending a message from the media playback system to a curating service that includes the message header.

In another aspect a media playback system is provided. The media playback system includes a processor and memory storing instructions that when executed by the media playback system cause the media playback system to perform functions. The functions include receiving by a curating application installed on the media playback system a first message from a second application installed on the media playback system. The first message includes an indication of a service provider to which the media playback system has access. The functions further include receiving by the curating application an input. The input includes a media item identifier. The functions further include the media playback system sending a request for a media item to the service provider.

It will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that this disclosure includes numerous other embodiments. While some examples described herein may refer to functions performed by given actors such as users media provision services curating services or other entities it should be understood that this is for purposes of explanation only. The claims should not be interpreted to require action by any such example actor unless explicitly required by the language of the claims themselves.

Further discussions relating to the different components of the example media playback system and how the different components may interact to provide a user with a media experience may be found in the following sections. While discussions herein may generally refer to the example media playback system technologies described herein are not limited to applications within among other things the home environment as shown in . For instance the technologies described herein may be useful in environments where multi zone audio may be desired such as for example a commercial setting like a restaurant mall or airport a vehicle like a sports utility vehicle SUV bus or car a ship or boat an airplane and so on.

In one example the processor may be a clock driven computing component configured to process input data according to instructions stored in the memory . The memory may be a tangible computer readable medium configured to store instructions executable by the processor . For instance the memory may be data storage that can be loaded with one or more of the software components executable by the processor to achieve certain functions. In one example the functions may involve the playback device retrieving audio data from an audio source or another playback device. In another example the functions may involve the playback device sending audio data to another device or playback device on a network. In yet another example the functions may involve pairing of the playback device with one or more playback devices to create a multi channel audio environment.

Certain functions may involve the playback device synchronizing playback of audio content with one or more other playback devices. During synchronous playback a listener will preferably not be able to perceive time delay differences between playback of the audio content by the playback device and the one or more other playback devices. U.S. Pat. No. 8 234 395 entitled System and method for synchronizing operations among a plurality of independently clocked digital data processing devices which is hereby incorporated by reference provides in more detail some examples for audio playback synchronization among playback devices.

The memory may further be configured to store data associated with the playback device such as one or more zones and or zone groups the playback device is a part of audio sources accessible by the playback device or a playback queue that the playback device or some other playback device may be associated with. The data may be stored as one or more state variables that are periodically updated and used to describe the state of the playback device . The memory may also include the data associated with the state of the other devices of the media system and shared from time to time among the devices so that one or more of the devices have the most recent data associated with the system. Other embodiments are also possible.

The audio processing components may include one or more digital to analog converters DAC an audio preprocessing component an audio enhancement component or a digital signal processor DSP and so on. In one embodiment one or more of the audio processing components may be a subcomponent of the processor . In one example audio content may be processed and or intentionally altered by the audio processing components to produce audio signals. The produced audio signals may then be provided to the audio amplifier s for amplification and playback through speaker s . Particularly the audio amplifier s may include devices configured to amplify audio signals to a level for driving one or more of the speakers . The speaker s may include an individual transducer e.g. a driver or a complete speaker system involving an enclosure with one or more drivers. A particular driver of the speaker s may include for example a subwoofer e.g. for low frequencies a mid range driver e.g. for middle frequencies and or a tweeter e.g. for high frequencies . In some cases each transducer in the one or more speakers may be driven by an individual corresponding audio amplifier of the audio amplifier s . In addition to producing analog signals for playback by the playback device the audio processing components may be configured to process audio content to be sent to one or more other playback devices for playback.

Audio content to be processed and or played back by the playback device may be received from an external source such as via an audio line in input connection e.g. an auto detecting 3.5 mm audio line in connection or the network interface .

The network interface may be configured to facilitate a data flow between the playback device and one or more other devices on a data network. As such the playback device may be configured to receive audio content over the data network from one or more other playback devices in communication with the playback device network devices within a local area network or audio content sources over a wide area network such as the Internet. In one example the audio content and other signals transmitted and received by the playback device may be transmitted in the form of digital packet data containing an Internet Protocol IP based source address and IP based destination addresses. In such a case the network interface may be configured to parse the digital packet data such that the data destined for the playback device is properly received and processed by the playback device .

As shown the network interface may include wireless interface s and wired interface s . The wireless interface s may provide network interface functions for the playback device to wirelessly communicate with other devices e.g. other playback device s speaker s receiver s network device s control device s within a data network the playback device is associated with in accordance with a communication protocol e.g. any wireless standard including IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 802.11 ac 802.15 4G mobile communication standard and so on . The wired interface s may provide network interface functions for the playback device to communicate over a wired connection with other devices in accordance with a communication protocol e.g. IEEE 802.3 . While the network interface shown in includes both wireless interface s and wired interface s the network interface may in some embodiments include only wireless interface s or only wired interface s .

In one example the playback device and one other playback device may be paired to play two separate audio components of audio content. For instance playback device may be configured to play a left channel audio component while the other playback device may be configured to play a right channel audio component thereby producing or enhancing a stereo effect of the audio content. The paired playback devices also referred to as bonded playback devices may further play audio content in synchrony with other playback devices.

In another example the playback device may be sonically consolidated with one or more other playback devices to form a single consolidated playback device. A consolidated playback device may be configured to process and reproduce sound differently than an unconsolidated playback device or playback devices that are paired because a consolidated playback device may have additional speaker drivers through which audio content may be rendered. For instance if the playback device is a playback device designed to render low frequency range audio content i.e. a subwoofer the playback device may be consolidated with a playback device designed to render full frequency range audio content. In such a case the full frequency range playback device when consolidated with the low frequency playback device may be configured to render only the mid and high frequency components of audio content while the low frequency range playback device renders the low frequency component of the audio content. The consolidated playback device may further be paired with a single playback device or yet another consolidated playback device.

By way of illustration SONOS Inc. presently offers or has offered for sale certain playback devices including a PLAY 1 PLAY 3 PLAY 5 PLAYBAR CONNECT AMP CONNECT and SUB. Any other past present and or future playback devices may additionally or alternatively be used to implement the playback devices of example embodiments disclosed herein. Additionally it is understood that a playback device is not limited to the example illustrated in or to the SONOS product offerings. For example a playback device may include a wired or wireless headphone. In another example a playback device may include or interact with a docking station for personal mobile media playback devices. In yet another example a playback device may be integral to another device or component such as a television a lighting fixture or some other device for indoor or outdoor use.

Referring back to the media playback system of the environment may have one or more playback zones each with one or more playback devices. The media playback system may be established with one or more playback zones after which one or more zones may be added or removed to arrive at the example configuration shown in . Each zone may be given a name according to a different room or space such as an office bathroom master bedroom bedroom kitchen dining room living room and or balcony. In one case a single playback zone may include multiple rooms or spaces. In another case a single room or space may include multiple playback zones.

As shown in the balcony dining room kitchen bathroom office and bedroom zones each have one playback device while the living room and master bedroom zones each have multiple playback devices. In the living room zone playback devices and may be configured to play audio content in synchrony as individual playback devices as one or more bonded playback devices as one or more consolidated playback devices or any combination thereof. Similarly in the case of the master bedroom playback devices and may be configured to play audio content in synchrony as individual playback devices as a bonded playback device or as a consolidated playback device.

In one example one or more playback zones in the environment of may each be playing different audio content. For instance the user may be grilling in the balcony zone and listening to hip hop music being played by the playback device while another user may be preparing food in the kitchen zone and listening to classical music being played by the playback device . In another example a playback zone may play the same audio content in synchrony with another playback zone. For instance the user may be in the office zone where the playback device is playing the same rock music that is being playing by playback device in the balcony zone. In such a case playback devices and may be playing the rock music in synchrony such that the user may seamlessly or at least substantially seamlessly enjoy the audio content that is being played out loud while moving between different playback zones. Synchronization among playback zones may be achieved in a manner similar to that of synchronization among playback devices as described in previously referenced U.S. Pat. No. 8 234 395.

As suggested above the zone configurations of the media playback system may be dynamically modified and in some embodiments the media playback system supports numerous configurations. For instance if a user physically moves one or more playback devices to or from a zone the media playback system may be reconfigured to accommodate the change s . For instance if the user physically moves the playback device from the balcony zone to the office zone the office zone may now include both the playback device and the playback device . The playback device may be paired or grouped with the office zone and or renamed if so desired via a control device such as the control devices and . On the other hand if the one or more playback devices are moved to a particular area in the home environment that is not already a playback zone a new playback zone may be created for the particular area.

Further different playback zones of the media playback system may be dynamically combined into zone groups or split up into individual playback zones. For instance the dining room zone and the kitchen zone may be combined into a zone group for a dinner party such that playback devices and may render audio content in synchrony. On the other hand the living room zone may be split into a television zone including playback device and a listening zone including playback devices and if the user wishes to listen to music in the living room space while another user wishes to watch television.

The processor may be configured to perform functions relevant to facilitating user access control and configuration of the media playback system . The memory may be configured to store instructions executable by the processor to perform those functions. The memory may also be configured to store the media playback system controller application software and other data associated with the media playback system and the user.

In one example the network interface may be based on an industry standard e.g. infrared radio wired standards including IEEE 802.3 wireless standards including IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11n 802.11ac 802.15 4G mobile communication standard and so on . The network interface may provide a means for the control device to communicate with other devices in the media playback system . In one example data and information e.g. such as a state variable may be communicated between control device and other devices via the network interface . For instance playback zone and zone group configurations in the media playback system may be received by the control device from a playback device or another network device or transmitted by the control device to another playback device or network device via the network interface . In some cases the other network device may be another control device.

Playback device control commands such as volume control and audio playback control may also be communicated from the control device to a playback device via the network interface . As suggested above changes to configurations of the media playback system may also be performed by a user using the control device . The configuration changes may include adding removing one or more playback devices to from a zone adding removing one or more zones to from a zone group forming a bonded or consolidated player separating one or more playback devices from a bonded or consolidated player among others. Accordingly the control device may sometimes be referred to as a controller whether the control device is a dedicated controller or a network device on which media playback system controller application software is installed.

The user interface of the control device may be configured to facilitate user access and control of the media playback system by providing a controller interface such as the controller interface shown in . The controller interface includes a playback control region a playback zone region a playback status region a playback queue region and an audio content sources region . The user interface as shown is just one example of a user interface that may be provided on a network device such as the control device of and or the control devices and of and accessed by users to control a media playback system such as the media playback system . Other user interfaces of varying formats styles and interactive sequences may alternatively be implemented on one or more network devices to provide comparable control access to a media playback system.

The playback control region may include selectable e.g. by way of touch or by using a cursor icons to cause playback devices in a selected playback zone or zone group to play or pause fast forward rewind skip to next skip to previous enter exit shuffle mode enter exit repeat mode enter exit cross fade mode. The playback control region may also include selectable icons to modify equalization settings and playback volume among other possibilities.

The playback zone region may include representations of playback zones within the media playback system . In some embodiments the graphical representations of playback zones may be selectable to bring up additional selectable icons to manage or configure the playback zones in the media playback system such as a creation of bonded zones creation of zone groups separation of zone groups and renaming of zone groups among other possibilities.

For example as shown a group icon may be provided within each of the graphical representations of playback zones. The group icon provided within a graphical representation of a particular zone may be selectable to bring up options to select one or more other zones in the media playback system to be grouped with the particular zone. Once grouped playback devices in the zones that have been grouped with the particular zone will be configured to play audio content in synchrony with the playback device s in the particular zone. Analogously a group icon may be provided within a graphical representation of a zone group. In this case the group icon may be selectable to bring up options to deselect one or more zones in the zone group to be removed from the zone group. Other interactions and implementations for grouping and ungrouping zones via a user interface such as the user interface are also possible. The representations of playback zones in the playback zone region may be dynamically updated as playback zone or zone group configurations are modified.

The playback status region may include graphical representations of audio content that is presently being played previously played or scheduled to play next in the selected playback zone or zone group. The selected playback zone or zone group may be visually distinguished on the user interface such as within the playback zone region and or the playback status region . The graphical representations may include track title artist name album name album year track length and other relevant information that may be useful for the user to know when controlling the media playback system via the user interface .

The playback queue region may include graphical representations of audio content in a playback queue associated with the selected playback zone or zone group. In some embodiments each playback zone or zone group may be associated with a playback queue containing information corresponding to zero or more audio items for playback by the playback zone or zone group. For instance each audio item in the playback queue may comprise a uniform resource identifier URI a uniform resource locator URL or some other identifier that may be used by a playback device in the playback zone or zone group to find and or retrieve the audio item from a local audio content source or a networked audio content source possibly for playback by the playback device.

In one example a playlist may be added to a playback queue in which case information corresponding to each audio item in the playlist may be added to the playback queue. In another example audio items in a playback queue may be saved as a playlist. In a further example a playback queue may be empty or populated but not in use when the playback zone or zone group is playing continuously streaming audio content such as Internet radio that may continue to play until otherwise stopped rather than discrete audio items that have playback durations. In an alternative embodiment a playback queue can include Internet radio and or other streaming audio content items and be in use when the playback zone or zone group is playing those items. Other examples are also possible.

When playback zones or zone groups are grouped or ungrouped playback queues associated with the affected playback zones or zone groups may be cleared or re associated. For example if a first playback zone including a first playback queue is grouped with a second playback zone including a second playback queue the established zone group may have an associated playback queue that is initially empty that contains audio items from the first playback queue such as if the second playback zone was added to the first playback zone that contains audio items from the second playback queue such as if the first playback zone was added to the second playback zone or a combination of audio items from both the first and second playback queues. Subsequently if the established zone group is ungrouped the resulting first playback zone may be re associated with the previous first playback queue or be associated with a new playback queue that is empty or contains audio items from the playback queue associated with the established zone group before the established zone group was ungrouped. Similarly the resulting second playback zone may be re associated with the previous second playback queue or be associated with a new playback queue that is empty or contains audio items from the playback queue associated with the established zone group before the established zone group was ungrouped. Other examples are also possible.

Referring back to the user interface of the graphical representations of audio content in the playback queue region may include track titles artist names track lengths and other relevant information associated with the audio content in the playback queue. In one example graphical representations of audio content may be selectable to bring up additional selectable icons to manage and or manipulate the playback queue and or audio content represented in the playback queue. For instance a represented audio content may be removed from the playback queue moved to a different position within the playback queue or selected to be played immediately or after any currently playing audio content among other possibilities. A playback queue associated with a playback zone or zone group may be stored in a memory on one or more playback devices in the playback zone or zone group on a playback device that is not in the playback zone or zone group and or some other designated device.

The audio content sources region may include graphical representations of selectable audio content sources from which audio content may be retrieved and played by the selected playback zone or zone group. Discussions pertaining to audio content sources may be found in the following section.

As indicated previously one or more playback devices in a zone or zone group may be configured to retrieve for playback audio content e.g. according to a corresponding URI or URL for the audio content from a variety of available audio content sources. In one example audio content may be retrieved by a playback device directly from a corresponding audio content source e.g. a line in connection . In another example audio content may be provided to a playback device over a network via one or more other playback devices or network devices.

Example audio content sources may include a memory of one or more playback devices in a media playback system such as the media playback system of local music libraries on one or more network devices such as a control device a network enabled personal computer or a networked attached storage NAS for example streaming audio services e.g. media provision services providing audio content via the Internet e.g. the cloud or audio sources connected to the media playback system via a line in input connection on a playback device or network devise among other possibilities.

In some embodiments audio content sources may be regularly added or removed from a media playback system such as the media playback system of . In one example an indexing of audio items may be performed whenever one or more audio content sources are added removed or updated. Indexing of audio items may involve scanning for identifiable audio items in all folders directory shared over a network accessible by playback devices in the media playback system and generating or updating an audio content database containing metadata e.g. title artist album track length among others and other associated information such as a URI or URL for each identifiable audio item found. Other examples for managing and maintaining audio content sources may also be possible such as curating services.

The above discussions relating to playback devices controller devices playback zone configurations and media content sources provide only some examples of operating environments within which functions and methods described below may be implemented. Other operating environments and configurations of media playback systems playback devices and network devices not explicitly described herein may also be applicable and suitable for implementation of the functions and methods.

As discussed above some examples described herein may involve among other things facilitating interactions between a media playback system and music services such as curating services and media provision services.

In this section the term computing device may have the same meaning as the terms network device and or controller device used in previous sections unless it is clear from context that this is not the case. The term server may also be used interchangeably with the term server device. Terminology such as server server device controller controller device network device media item identifier media provision services curating services and computing device are generally used for explanatory purposes in this disclosure and are not meant to be limiting. One of skill in the art will recognize that any suitable computing device may perform various functions disclosed herein and that the preceding list of terms is non exhaustive.

The following description pertaining to refers to an example operating environment but such an operating environment is disclosed herein for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed as limiting. In other examples the devices systems services and functions depicted in may occur or be performed by other devices systems services or functions from those depicted in or some depicted devices systems services or functions may not be performed or occur at all.

The media playback system may send a message such as message to a computing device of the curating service . For example message may include an indication of a media provision service such as either of media provision service A or media provision service B to which the media playback system has access. For example as illustrated in the media playback system may be associated with a user account that is registered with media provision service B.

The curating service may have access to curated content . The curated content for example may reside on a database accessible to the media curating service . The curated content may include one or more media item identifiers related to various aspects of media items such as album title artist name track title or number or a location where a corresponding media item is stored or other information associated with a media item. The media item identifier may identify one or more aspects of a media item. For example the media item identifier may identify a track title a composer an album title a musical genre a playback duration a year of release a performer a service provider a URI a URL a storage location or any other aspect associated with the media item among other examples or any combination thereof. For example as illustrated in the curated content contains information related to media items such as the album name artist name track name or number and identifiers associated with media provision services A and B. For example the media item may be stored on a server associated with media provision service A as designated by the identifier f 1234123 .

A computing device of the curating service may also send a message such as message to the media playback system . For example the curating service may determine one or more service specific identifiers of curated content that correspond to the media provision service to which the media playback device has access. Curating service may then send a message illustrated in as message to the media playback system . The message may include a media item identifier such as a track identifier an album identifier a location identifier a media provision service identifier or other information.

The media playback system may send a request to a media provision service. For example as illustrated in the media playback system may send a request to media provision service A. The request may include a media item identifier.

The media provision service may provide a media item to the media playback system . For example as illustrated in the media provision service A sends a response that includes a media item based on the media item identifier provided by request .

Curating services and provision services may also communicate with each other. For example as illustrated in media curating service and media provision service B may communicate with each other through communication link . For example media curating service may have curated content and may need to verify the location of media items within the curated content at the media provision service B. For example media curating service may have access to identifiers of curated content such as the song Stuffy Turkey by the artist Thelonious Sphere Monk. However media curating service may need to verify whether media provision service B has access to Stuffy Turkey. Thus a media curating service may use communication links such as communication link to communicate with various media provision services.

Method shown in presents an embodiment of a method that can be implemented within an operating environment involving for example the media playback system of one or more of the playback device of one or more of the control devices of and one or more of messages and request media item communication link curating service curated content and media provision services A and B of . Method may include one or more operations functions or actions as illustrated by one or more of blocks . Although the blocks are illustrated in sequential order these blocks may also be performed in parallel and or in a different order than those described herein. Also the various blocks may be combined into fewer blocks divided into additional blocks and or removed based upon the desired implementation.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks or compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device. In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the method includes sending by a media playback system a first message to a curating service wherein the first message comprises a service provider access identifier wherein the service provider access identifier indicates a service provider to which the media playback system has access. As one example a media playback system may send a first message shown in to a computing device of the curating service . The first message may include an indication of a service provider to which the media playback system has access. For example the media playback system may have access to media provision service A because the media playback system is associated with a user account of media provision service A. The media playback system may also have access to one or more additional service providers. As such the message may include an indication that the media playback system has access to those one or more additional service providers. The message may also include one or more media item identifiers.

In a further aspect the message from the media playback system may not include an indication of an accessible service provider. Rather the message may include a media item identifier without reference to any accessible service providers. For example the media playback system may send a request to the curating service for a song title a genre or other media item identifiers.

At block the method includes receiving by the media playback system from the curating service a second message the second message comprising a media item identifier. As one example a media playback system may receive a message from the curating service . The message may include one or more media item identifiers. The media item identifier may identify one or more aspects of a media item. For example the media item identifier may identify a track title a composer an album title a musical genre a playback duration a year of release a performer a service provider a URI a URL a storage location or any other aspect associated with the media item among other examples or any combination thereof.

In an example the media playback system has access to a first media provision service as indicated from the service provider access identifier of block . The message may include a media item identifier corresponding to that first media provision service. Likewise the message may include a media item identifier corresponding to one or more additional service providers if the media playback system has access to one or more additional service providers.

Messages may be organized in some manner. As one example if the media playback system has access to multiple service providers the message may be organized in an order of preference of media item identifiers corresponding to service providers. For example the message may be organized such that the service providers are ranked in an order of preference. The order of preference may be set by a user set by the media playback system set by the curating service set by a combination of these or by any other method. For example the user may prefer a first media provision service then a second media provision and not have any further preferences. But that media playback system may have a business relationship with a third media provision service. Thus the media playback system may set the order of preference such that the first then the second then the third media provision services are utilized.

At block the method includes sending by the media playback system to the service provider a request for a media item wherein the request comprises the media item identifier. For example the media playback system may send a request for a media item to the media provision service A. The request may include the media item identifier received by the media playback system in block . As an example the media playback system may send a request to a server associated with media provision service A.

In an example method the media playback system may include a playback device . Method may further include the media playback system receiving the media item from the server associated with the service provider and effecting playback of the media item at the playback device .

In another example method the media playback system may include a controller and one or more playback devices . The controller may receive an input e.g. from a user of the media playback system that indicates a media item should be sent to one or more of the one or more playback devices . For example the media playback system may send the media item to a stereo pair of playback devices in the living room.

Method shown in presents an example method that can be implemented within an operating environment involving for example the media playback system of one or more of the playback device of one or more of the control device of and one or more of messages and request media item communication link curating service curated content and media provision services A and B of . Method may include one or more operations functions or actions as illustrated by one or more of blocks . Although the blocks are illustrated in sequential order these blocks may also be performed in parallel and or in a different order than those described herein. Also the various blocks may be combined into fewer blocks divided into additional blocks and or removed based upon the desired implementation.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device. In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the method includes receiving at a curating service from a media playback system a first message wherein the first message comprises a service provider access identifier wherein the service provider access identifier indicates the media playback system has access to the service provider. In one example the curating service receives a first message from a media playback system . The first message includes an indication that the media playback system has access to one or more service providers. For example the message may indicate that the media playback device has access to a server associated with a first media provision service A and a second media provision service B. Additionally or alternatively the message may include one or more media item identifiers.

At block the method includes based on the first message determining by the curating service that the service provider has access to media corresponding to a media item identifier. In one example the curating service determines based on the first message that the service provider has access to a media item corresponding to a media item identifier. For example the curating service may have media item identifiers for curated content where the associated media item is available on a server associated with a first media provision service A. The curating service may use communication link to verify that media provision service A has access to the media item corresponding to a media item identifier.

In another example the curating service may receive a first message that identifies one or more media item identifiers but does not identify accessible service providers. For example the first message may include a song title or a genre. The curating service may then determine one or more media provision services which have access to the one or more media item identifiers. As described above in reference to an order of preference may exist for media provision services. For example the curating service may first determine that a first media provision service A has access to a media item associated with the song title from the first message and may then determine that a second media provision service B has access to the media item.

At block the method includes transmitting a second message from the curating service to the media playback system wherein the second message comprises the media item identifier. For example the curating service may transmit a message to the media playback system . The message may include one or more media item identifiers.

Method shown in presents an example method that can be implemented within an operating environment involving for example the media playback system of one or more of the playback device of one or more of the control device of and one or more of messages and request media item communication link curating service curated content and media provision services A and B of . Method may include one or more operations functions or actions as illustrated by one or more of blocks . Although the blocks are illustrated in sequential order these blocks may also be performed in parallel and or in a different order than those described herein. Also the various blocks may be combined into fewer blocks divided into additional blocks and or removed based upon the desired implementation.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device. In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the method includes determining by a media playback system one or more service providers accessible by the media playback system. For example a media playback system may determine one or more service providers accessible by the media playback system by reference to a database accessible to the media playback system . In another example a device such as controller associated with media playback system may be provided with credentials to access one or more service providers. In yet another example the media playback system may communicate with one or more service providers to determine whether the media playback system has access to the one or more service providers.

At block the method includes generating a message header wherein the message header comprises an identification of the one or more accessible service providers. For example a computing device of the media playback system may generate a message header. The message header may include an identification of the one or more accessible service providers determined at block .

At block the method includes sending from the media playback system to a curating service a first message comprising the generated header. For example the media playback system may send a first message to a curating service . The first message may include the generated message header from block .

In some embodiments method may include the use of an application programming interface or API on a computing device of the media playback system . With some network transactions the API may include the message header that tells the curating service which service providers are accessible to the media playback system . The message header may be for example a list of service provider identifications a list of numeric identifications such as 3 6 and 11 stored in a table that correlates the numeric identifications to a service or a list of more readable names such as Service Provider Service Provider Service Provider etc. . The message header may list the service providers in an order of preference. The order of preference may be determined as described above in reference to . The order of preference may also be determined by the media playback system based on user input user profiles a list of preferred service providers or any other means. When the media playback system has access to multiple service providers the media playback system may receive from the curating service one or more media item identifiers from each of the service providers in an order of preference.

In some embodiments the first message may include one or more media item identifiers. The media item identifier may include identifications of one or more aspects of a media item such as a track title a composer an album title a musical genre a playback duration a year of release a performer a service provider a URI a URL a storage location or any other aspect associated with the media item among other examples or any combination thereof.

In one example the method may further include the media playback system receiving a message such as message from the curating service in response to the sent message header from block . The message may include one or more media item identifiers associated with the one or more accessible service providers. After the media playback system receives the message from the curating service the method may further include the media playback system sending a request such as request to the service provider that includes the one or more media item identifiers. After the media playback system sends the request the method may further include the media playback system receiving one or more media items from the service provider and effecting playback at one or more playback devices such as playback device . In one example the media playback system may effect playback at specific playback devices. For example a user may indicate on a controller to playback the one or more media items obtained from the service provider at a stereo pair of playback devices in the kitchen.

Method shown in presents an example method that can be implemented within an operating environment involving for example the media playback system of one or more of the playback device of one or more of the control device of and one or more of messages and request media item communication link curating service curated content and media provision services A and B of . Method may include one or more operations functions or actions as illustrated by one or more of blocks . Although the blocks are illustrated in sequential order these blocks may also be performed in parallel and or in a different order than those described herein. Also the various blocks may be combined into fewer blocks divided into additional blocks and or removed based upon the desired implementation.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device. In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the method includes storing by a controller application installed on the media playback system a service provider access identifier wherein the service provider access identifier indicates the media playback system has access to a service provider server. For example at block the media playback system may execute code representing a controller application which causes storage of a service provider access identifier on the media playback system . The service provider access identifier may indicate the media playback system has access to the service provider. In some embodiments one or more additional service provider access identifiers may be stored as well.

At block the method includes detecting by a curator application installed on the media playback system an input wherein the input indicates a media item identifier. For example an input may be detected by a curator application installed on the media playback system that indicates one or more media item identifiers. For example a user of the media playback system may run a curator application and then indicate he or she would like to hear a certain genre of songs for example by a touch input on a touchscreen device on a controller . The media playback system may detect an input based on entered text and a subsequent search a provided list a voice command motion detection or other methods.

At block the method includes determining by the media playback system that the media item corresponding to the media item identifier is available at the service provider server. The method may further include determining whether one or more additional media items corresponding to one or more media item identifiers are available from one or more service providers at one or more service provider servers. For example the media playback system may determine that the media item corresponding to the media item identifier is available at the service provider by for example reference to a database on a server of the service provider.

At block the method includes sending by the media playback system to the service provider server a request for the media item. For example the media playback system may send a request such as request for the media item to the service provider.

In one example the method may further include the media playback system receiving one or more media items from the service provider and effecting playback at the one or more playback devices . The media playback system may also effect playback at specific playback devices . For example a user may indicate via a controller to playback the one or more media items obtained from the service provider at a stereo pair of playback devices e.g. playback devices and in the Living Room of .

In a further embodiment the media playback system may use application launching to facilitate interactions between curating services and media provision services. Application launching refers to the practice of an operating system supporting the ability for applications to register a URL scheme with the operating system. After registration the operating system will handle a registered URL by automatically launching the registered application. For example a music service focused on music criticism and commentary music news and artist interview e.g. Pitchfork Media may create an application. In this example the application is a third party application but the application does not have to be a third party application. Similar to other curating services the music service may aggregate and curate content and may have access to media item identifiers without having access to the media item itself. The music service could integrate with the media playback system by launching its application on a computing device associated with the media playback system such as controller using a URL scheme such as 

After launching an application the media playback system may communicate with the application that the media playback system has access to one or more accessible service providers. In one example the application may be able to control media playback on the local computing device such as the controller . For example if the controller is a smart phone the application may be able to effect playback of the media item on the smart phone. In a further example the application may even be able to effect playback at the media playback system on one or more playback devices such as playback device . For example the application may contain programming that allows it to effect playback at the media playback system directly from the launched application.

The description above discloses among other things various example systems methods apparatus and articles of manufacture including among other components firmware and or software executed on hardware. It is understood that such examples are merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. For example it is contemplated that any or all of the firmware hardware and or software aspects or components can be embodied exclusively in hardware exclusively in software exclusively in firmware or in any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Accordingly the examples provided are not the only way s to implement such systems methods apparatus and or articles of manufacture.

The specification is presented largely in terms of illustrative environments systems procedures steps logic blocks processing and other symbolic representations that directly or indirectly resemble the operations of data processing devices coupled to networks. These process descriptions and representations are typically used by those skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. Numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. However it is understood to those skilled in the art that certain embodiments of the present disclosure can be practiced without certain specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuitry have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the embodiments. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure is defined by the appended claims rather than the forgoing description of embodiments.

When any of the appended claims are read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the elements in at least one example is hereby expressly defined to include a tangible non transitory medium such as a memory DVD CD Blu ray and so on storing the software and or firmware.

