---

title: Exit-code-based RFID loss-prevention system
abstract: Methods and systems are described for authorizing an item with an RFID tag to leave a facility. In one embodiment, a mobile device receives or determines an exit code (EC) to write into the tag in response to providing authorizing information. The EC may be based on information stored in the tag such as the tag's item identifier or other tag information (collectively an item identifier or II), a ticket value, other information such as the OC, a mobile identity or location, or any other suitable information. Upon verification of the EC, the tagged item is allowed to leave the facility. In another embodiment, the mobile device stores an item identifier (II) associated with the tag and provides authorizing information. Upon verifying the authorizing information and confirming that the stored II corresponds to the tagged item's II, the tagged item is allowed to leave the facility.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09189904&OS=09189904&RS=09189904
owner: Impinj, Inc.
number: 09189904
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140124
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 972 825 filed on Aug. 21 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 866 596 issued on Oct. 21 2014. The disclosures of the parent application are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Radio Frequency Identification RFID systems typically include RFID readers also known as RFID reader writers or RFID interrogators and RFID tags. RFID systems can be used in many ways for locating and identifying objects to which the tags are attached. RFID systems are useful in product related and service related industries for tracking objects being processed inventoried or handled. In such cases an RFID tag is usually attached to an individual item or to its package.

In principle RFID techniques entail using an RFID reader to interrogate one or more RFID tags. The reader transmitting a Radio Frequency RF wave performs the interrogation. The RF wave is typically electromagnetic at least in the far field. The RF wave can also be predominantly electric or magnetic in the near field. The RF wave may encode one or more commands that instruct the tags to perform one or more actions.

A tag that senses the interrogating RF wave may respond by transmitting back another RF wave. The tag either generates the transmitted back RF wave originally or by reflecting back a portion of the interrogating RF wave in a process known as backscatter. Backscatter may take place in a number of ways.

The reflected back RF wave may encode data stored in the tag such as a number. The response is demodulated and decoded by the reader which thereby identifies counts or otherwise interacts with the associated item. The decoded data can denote a serial number a price a date a destination other attribute s any combination of attributes and so on. Accordingly when a reader receives tag data it can learn about the item that hosts the tag and or about the tag itself.

An RFID tag typically includes an antenna section a radio section a power management section and frequently a logical section a memory or both. In some RFID tags the power management section included an energy storage device such as a battery. RFID tags with an energy storage device are known as battery assisted semi active or active tags. Other RFID tags can be powered solely by the RF signal they receive. Such RFID tags do not include an energy storage device and are called passive tags. Of course even passive tags typically include temporary energy and data flag storage elements such as capacitors or inductors.

RFID technology may be employed in loss prevention systems used for example by retailers. Verification readers read tagged items exiting the store and determine if the item is approved to leave. However the determination can be challenging. In one approach a store database maintains information about all items in the store and indicates if an item is approved to leave. The verification reader then checks the database for approval. Unfortunately implementing the database may be costly and or complex especially for large stores that contain a large number of items multiple entrances and exits and multiple Point of Sale or checkout registers collectively PoS that must continually update the database.

In another approach the tags themselves retain information about whether they are approved to leave the store and the verification reader checks each tag for approval. Authorization readers or consumer mobile devices may write a bit or bits to each tag indicating that the item is approved to leave. Unfortunately this approach is susceptible to thieves using unauthorized readers to illegitimately set the bit or bits typically necessitating a password based authorization system that is complicated to maintain and use and is itself susceptible to attack.

Finally for both approaches foreign tags entering a store such as a tag carried by a consumer on his or her person may further complicate the situation because the verification reader must determine if a departing item is foreign or stolen.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments are directed to RFID systems for loss prevention. An ownership code OC associated with an organization or facility is stored in a tag indicating that an item to which the tag is attached is associated with the facility and not foreign a foreign tag indicates an item not associated with the facility . In one embodiment an authorization reader writes an exit code EC into the tag to indicate that the tagged item is allowed to leave the facility. The EC may be based on information stored in the tag such as the tag s item identifier or other tag information collectively an item identifier or II a ticket value other information such as the OC an authorization reader identity or location or any other suitable information. In some embodiments the authorization reader is a consumer device such as a mobile phone.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory only and are not restrictive of aspects as claimed.

In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments or examples. These embodiments or examples may be combined other aspects may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

As used herein memory is one of ROM RAM SRAM DRAM NVM EEPROM FLASH Fuse MRAM FRAM and other similar information storage technologies as will be known to those skilled in the art. Some portions of memory may be writeable and some not. Command refers to a reader request for one or more tags to perform one or more actions. Protocol refers to an industry standard for communications between a reader and a tag and vice versa such as the Class 1 Generation 2 UHF RFID Protocol for Communications at 860 MHz 960 MHz by GS1 EPCglobal Inc. Gen2 Specification versions 1.2.0 and 2.0.0 of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Reader and tag communicate via signals and . When communicating each encodes modulates and transmits data to the other and each receives demodulates and decodes data from the other. The data can be modulated onto and demodulated from RF waveforms. The RF waveforms are typically in a suitable range of frequencies such as those near 900 MHz 13.56 MHz and so on.

The communication between reader and tag uses symbols also called RFID symbols. A symbol can be a delimiter a calibration value and so on. Symbols can be implemented for exchanging binary data such as 0 and 1 if that is desired. When symbols are processed by reader and tag they can be treated as values numbers and so on.

Tag can be a passive tag or an active or battery assisted tag i.e. a tag having its own power source . When tag is a passive tag it is powered from signal .

Tag is typically although not necessarily formed on a substantially planar inlay which can be made in many ways known in the art. Tag includes a circuit which may be implemented as an IC . In some embodiments IC is implemented in complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS technology. In other embodiments IC may be implemented in other technologies such as bipolar junction transistor BJT technology metal semiconductor field effect transistor MESFET technology and others as will be well known to those skilled in the art. IC is arranged on inlay .

Tag also includes an antenna for exchanging wireless signals with its environment. The antenna is often flat and attached to inlay . IC is electrically coupled to the antenna via suitable antenna contacts not shown in . The term electrically coupled as used herein may mean a direct electrical connection or it may mean a connection that includes one or more intervening circuit blocks elements or devices. The electrical part of the term electrically coupled as used in this document shall mean a coupling that is one or more of ohmic galvanic capacitive and or inductive.

IC is shown with a single antenna port comprising two antenna contacts electrically coupled to two antenna segments and which are shown here forming a dipole. Many other embodiments are possible using any number of ports contacts antennas and or antenna segments.

Diagram depicts top and side views of tag formed using a strap. Tag differs from tag in that it includes a substantially planar strap substrate having strap contacts and . IC is mounted on strap substrate such that the antenna contacts on IC electrically couple to strap contacts and via suitable connections not shown . Strap substrate is then placed on inlay such that strap contacts and electrically couple to antenna segments and . Strap substrate may be affixed to inlay via pressing an interface layer one or more adhesives or any other suitable means.

Diagram depicts a side view of an alternative way to place strap substrate onto inlay . Instead of strap substrate s surface including strap contacts facing the surface of inlay strap substrate is placed with its strap contacts facing away from the surface of inlay . Strap contacts can then be either capacitively coupled to antenna segments through strap substrate or conductively coupled using a through via which may be formed by crimping strap contacts to antenna segments . In some embodiments the positions of strap substrate and inlay may be reversed with strap substrate mounted beneath strap substrate and strap contacts electrically coupled to antenna segments through inlay . Of course in yet other embodiments strap contacts may electrically couple to antenna segments through both inlay and strap substrate .

In operation the antenna receives a signal and communicates it to IC which both harvests power and responds if appropriate based on the incoming signal and the IC s internal state. If IC uses backscatter modulation then it responds by modulating the antenna s reflectance which generates response signal from signal transmitted by the reader. Electrically coupling and uncoupling the antenna contacts of IC can modulate the antenna s reflectance as can varying the admittance of a shunt connected circuit element which is coupled to the antenna contacts. Varying the impedance of a series connected circuit element is another means of modulating the antenna s reflectance.

In the embodiments of antenna segments and are separate from IC . In other embodiments the antenna segments may alternatively be formed on IC . Tag antennas according to embodiments may be designed in any form and are not limited to dipoles. For example the tag antenna may be a patch a slot a loop a coil a horn a spiral a monopole microstrip stripline or any other suitable antenna.

The components of the RFID system of may communicate with each other in any number of modes. One such mode is called full duplex. Another such mode is called half duplex and is described below.

RFID reader and RFID tag talk and listen to each other by taking turns. As seen on axis TIME when reader talks to tag the communication session is designated as R T and when tag talks to reader the communication session is designated as T R . Along the TIME axis a sample R T communication session occurs during a time interval and a following sample T R communication session occurs during a time interval . Of course interval is typically of a different duration than interval here the durations are shown approximately equal only for purposes of illustration.

According to blocks and RFID reader talks during interval and listens during interval . According to blocks and RFID tag listens while reader talks during interval and talks while reader listens during interval .

In terms of actual behavior during interval reader talks to tag as follows. According to block reader transmits signal which was first described in . At the same time according to block tag receives signal and processes it to extract data and so on. Meanwhile according to block tag does not backscatter with its antenna and according to block reader has no signal to receive from tag .

During interval tag talks to reader as follows. According to block reader transmits a Continuous Wave CW signal which can be thought of as a carrier that typically encodes no information. This CW signal serves both to transfer energy to tag for its own internal power needs and also as a carrier that tag can modulate with its backscatter. Indeed during interval according to block tag does not receive a signal for processing. Instead according to block tag modulates the CW emitted according to block so as to generate backscatter signal . Concurrently according to block reader receives backscatter signal and processes it.

Local block is responsible for communicating with tags. Local block includes a block of an antenna and an antenna driver for communicating with the tags. Some readers like that shown in local block contain a single antenna and driver. Some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers and a method to switch signals among them including sometimes using different antennas for transmitting and for receiving. Some readers contain multiple antennas and drivers that can operate simultaneously. A demodulator decoder block demodulates and decodes waves received from the tags via antenna driver block . Modulator encoder block encodes and modulates RF waves that are to be transmitted to tags via antenna driver block .

Local block additionally includes an optional local processor . Local processor may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art. Such ways include by way of examples and not of limitation digital and or analog processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors DSPs controllers such as microcontrollers software running in a machine such as a general purpose computer programmable circuits such as Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs Field Programmable Analog Arrays FPAAs Programmable Logic Devices PLDs Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASIC any combination of one or more of these and so on. In some cases some or all of the decoding function in block the encoding function in block or both may be performed instead by local processor . In some cases local processor may implement an encryption or authorization function in some cases one or more of these functions can be distributed among other blocks such as encoding block or may be entirely incorporated in another block.

Local block additionally includes an optional local memory . Local memory may be implemented in any number of ways known in the art including by way of example and not of limitation any of the memory types described above as well as any combination thereof. Memory can be implemented separately from local processor or in an IC with local processor with or without other components. Local memory if provided can store programs for local processor to run if needed.

In some embodiments local memory stores data read from tags or data to be written to tags such as Electronic Product Codes EPCs Tag Identifiers TIDs exit codes ECs ownership codes OCs and other data. Local memory can also include reference data that is to be compared to the EPC instructions and or rules for how to encode commands for the tags modes for controlling antenna secret keys key pairs and so on. In some of these embodiments local memory is provided as a database.

Some components of local block typically treat data as analog such as antenna driver block . Other components such as local memory typically treat data as digital. At some point there is a conversion between analog and digital. Based on where this conversion occurs a reader may be characterized as analog or digital but most readers contain a mix of analog and digital functionality.

If remote components are provided they are coupled to local block via an electronic communications network . Network can be a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Wide Area Network WAN a network of networks such as the internet or a local communication link such as a USB PCI and so on. Local block may include a local network connection for communicating with network . Communications on the network can be secure such as if they are encrypted or physically protected or insecure if they are not encrypted or otherwise protected.

There can be one or more remote component s . If more than one they can be located at the same location or in different locations. They can access each other and local block via communications network via other networks and so on. Accordingly remote component s can use respective remote network connections. Only one such remote network connection is shown which is similar to local network connection etc.

Remote component s can also include a remote processor . Remote processor can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local processor . Remote processor may also implement an encryption function similar to local processor .

Remote component s can also include a remote memory . Remote memory can be made in any way known in the art such as was described with reference to local memory . Remote memory may include a local database or a database of a Standards Organization such as one that can reference EPCs. Remote memory may also contain information associated with command tag profiles keys or the like similar to local memory .

Of the above described elements it may be advantageous to consider a combination of these components designated as operational processing block . Operational processing block includes those components that are provided of the following local processor remote processor local network connection remote network connection and by extension an applicable portion of communications network that links remote network connection with local network connection . The portion can be dynamically changeable. In addition operational processing block can receive and decode RF waves received via antenna and cause antenna to transmit RF waves according to what it has processed.

Operational processing block includes either local processor or remote processor or both. If both are provided remote processor can be made such that it operates in a way complementary with that of local processor . In fact the two can cooperate. It will be appreciated that operational processing block as defined this way is in communication with both local memory and remote memory if both are present.

Accordingly operational processing block is location independent in that its functions can be implemented either by local processor by remote processor or by a combination of both. Some of these functions are preferably implemented by local processor and some by remote processor . Operational processing block accesses local memory or remote memory or both for storing and or retrieving data.

RFID reader system operates by operational processing block generating communications for RFID tags. These communications are ultimately transmitted by antenna block with modulator encoder block encoding and modulating the information on an RF wave. Then data is received from the tags via antenna block demodulated and decoded by demodulator decoder block and processed by processing operational processing block .

Embodiments of an RFID reader system can be implemented as hardware software firmware or any combination. It is advantageous to consider such a system as subdivided into components or modules. A person skilled in the art will recognize that some of these components or modules can be implemented as hardware some as software some as firmware and some as a combination. An example of such a subdivision is now described together with the RFID tag as an additional module.

RFID tag is considered here as a module by itself. RFID tag conducts a wireless communication with the remainder via air interface . Air interface is really a boundary in that signals or data that pass through it are not intended to be transformed from one thing to another. Specifications as to how readers and tags are to communicate with each other for example the Gen 2 Specification also properly characterize that interface as a boundary.

RFID system includes one or more reader antennas and an RF front end module for interfacing with reader antenna s . These can be made as described above.

RFID system also includes a signal processing module . In one embodiment signal processing module exchanges waveforms with RF front end module such as I and Q waveform pairs.

RFID system also includes a physical driver module which is also known as data link module. In some embodiments physical driver module exchanges bits with signal processing module . Physical driver module can be the stage associated with the framing of data.

RFID system additionally includes a media access control module . In one embodiment module exchanges packets of bits with physical driver module . Module can make decisions for sharing the communication medium which in this case is the air interface but in other embodiments could be a wired interface.

RFID system moreover includes an application programming library module which can include application programming interfaces APIs other objects etc.

All of these RFID system functionalities can be supported by one or more processors. One of these processors can be considered a host processor. Such a host processor might include a host operating system OS and or central processing unit CPU as in module . In some embodiments the processor is not considered as a separate module but one that includes some of the above mentioned modules of RFID system . In some embodiments the one or more processors may perform operations associated with calculating and or writing an ownership code and or an electronic signature as part of a loss prevention or self checkout system.

User interface module may be coupled to application programming library module for accessing the APIs. User interface module can be manual automatic or both. It can be supported by the host OS CPU module mentioned above or by a separate processor etc.

It will be observed that the modules of RFID system form a chain. Adjacent modules in the chain can be coupled by appropriate instrumentalities for exchanging signals. These instrumentalities include conductors buses interfaces and so on. These instrumentalities can be local e.g. to connect modules that are physically close to each other or over a network for remote communication.

The chain is used in one direction for receiving RFID waveforms and in the other for transmitting RFID waveforms. In receiving mode reader antenna s receives wireless waves which are in turn processed successively by the various modules in the chain. Processing can terminate in any one of the modules. In transmitting mode waveform initiation can be in any one of the modules. Ultimately signals are routed to reader antenna s to be transmitted as wireless waves.

The architecture of RFID system is presented for purposes of explanation and not of limitation. Its particular subdivision into modules need not be followed for creating embodiments. Furthermore the features of the present disclosure can be performed either within a single one of the modules or by a combination of them. In some embodiments RFID system can be incorporated into another electronic device such as a point of sale terminal in a retail facility or a consumer device such as a mobile phone.

As mentioned previously embodiments are directed to employing RFID readers and tags in a loss prevention system. Embodiments additionally include programs and methods of operation of the programs. A program is generally defined as a group of steps or operations leading to a desired result due to the nature of the elements in the steps and their sequence. A program is usually advantageously implemented as a sequence of steps or operations for a processor.

Performing the steps instructions or operations of a program requires manipulating physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities may be transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated or processed according to the steps or instructions and they may also be stored in a computer readable medium. These quantities include for example electrical magnetic and electromagnetic charges or particles states of matter and in the more general case can include the states of any physical devices or elements. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to information represented by the states of these quantities as bits data bits samples values symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are associated with the appropriate physical quantities and that these terms are merely convenient labels applied to these physical quantities individually or in groups.

Embodiments furthermore include storage media. Such media individually or in combination with others have stored thereon instructions of a program made according to the embodiments. A storage medium according to the embodiments is a computer readable medium such as a memory and may be read by a processor of the type mentioned above. If a memory it can be implemented in any of the ways and using any of the technologies described above.

Even though it is said that the program may be stored in a computer readable medium it should be clear to a person skilled in the art that it need not be a single memory or even a single machine. Various portions modules or features of it may reside in separate memories or even separate machines. The separate machines may be connected directly or through a network such as a local access network LAN or a global network such as the Internet.

Often for the sake of convenience only it is desirable to implement and describe a program as software. The software can be unitary or thought of in terms of various interconnected distinct software modules.

As described above an authorization reader may authorize a tag and its associated item to leave a facility by writing an exit code EC to the tag. A code as used herein is a numerical value that may be expressed as a single or multi bit value in a binary octal hexadecimal decimal or any other suitable format. The authorization reader may compute the EC using an algorithm with one or more inputs. The algorithm may include one or more arithmetic operations logical operations bit shifting operations truncation operations i.e. operations that reduce the bit length of a code for example by discarding bits extension operations i.e. operations that increase the length of a code for example by padding or concatenation and or any other suitable operations. The inputs may include identifiers such as an II the OC reader identifier s or any other suitable parameters where an II is a TID an EPC a unique item identifier UII a serialized global trade item number SGTIN a combination of these numbers a number derived from any of these numbers or any other number that allows identifying the individual tag or item to which the tag is attached. The OC identifies the facility a parent of the facility an organization associated with the facility a manufacturer a retail seller or any other entity with which the tag or item is associated or owned.

In some embodiments an authorization reader uses a cryptographic algorithm to compute the exit code. In this case the exit code is known as a electronic signature or ES . Electronic signatures allow the authenticity and integrity of a digital message to be verified. are flow diagrams illustrating generating and verifying an ES.

An ES may be a digital signature or a message authentication code. The term electronic signature or ES as used herein may refer to a digital signature a message authentication code a hash or another output from a cryptographic algorithm as well as to truncated shortened concatenated padded or arithmetically modified versions of the preceding.

Digital signatures are typically referred to in the context of asymmetric cryptography. A signatory also referred to as a sender possesses a private public key pair where the private and public keys are mathematically related to each other. The sender uses the private key to generate the digital signature. A recipient uses the sender s public key to verify the digital signature. A verified digital signature gives the recipient reason to believe that the message was created by a known sender and that it was not altered.

A message authentication code is the digital signature equivalent in the context of symmetric cryptography. A signatory also referred to as a sender possesses a secret key and the sender uses the secret key to generate the message authentication code. A recipient can use the same secret key to verify the message authentication code. A verified message authentication code gives the recipient reason to believe that the message was created by a known sender and that it was not altered.

An important attribute of digital signatures is that they are difficult to forge or clone. A number of standards have been developed for digital signatures. The Digital Signature Standard DSS is a U.S. Government standard for digital signatures. DSS is specified in Federal Information Processing Standards FIPS 186 1 and FIPS 186 3. FIPS 186 1 specifies two digital signature algorithms the Digital Signature Algorithm DSA and the RSA digital signature algorithm. FIPS 186 3 includes a third digital signature algorithm the Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm ECDSA . FIPS 180 3 Secure Hash Standard SHS specifies the hash functions to be used in conjunction with FIPS 186 1 and FIPS 186 3.

In some embodiments electronic signatures may be generated without using a separate hash using a signature scheme with message recovery. In such embodiments ES may be generated directly from data and digitally signed data only includes ES . During verification the ES is directly decrypted to provide data . Of course other electronic signature schemes may be used.

Item is typically delivered to facility with a tag having a preprogrammed II. In some embodiments tag may arrive pre preprogrammed with both an II and an OC. In other embodiments item may be delivered without tag and a tag is programmed with an II and an OC and attached to item in the facility. In yet other embodiments item may be delivered with a blank unprogrammed or partially programmed tag leaving the II and or the OC to be programmed within the facility. Regardless of the tagging approach item enters point of ingress . An optional ingress station including an ingress reader reads tag and if the tag is lacking an II or OC writes them into the tag at operation . Note that ingress station can be located anywhere in facility can be outside the facility can be a separate facility which performs tag encoding or could even be a mobile reader such as a handheld device. In some embodiments separate readers may be used to write the II and the OC into the tag. A reader may check to see if the tag lacks an II or OC before writing or may write the II OC without checking. Regardless of the methodology after ingress and encoding the tagged item containing an II and OC will be at location in the facility.

Items must be authorized to leave facility . The authorization process is performed at authorization station using authorization reader . As described in process authorization reader interrogates tag attached to item confirms that the OC is associated with facility computes an exit code EC using an algorithm and writes the EC into the tag. The EC may be may include or may be a computed result based on an ES a ticket as described below an II and or other information including but not limited to a location a timestamp a device identity customer information authorization information as described below an OC or any other parameter. A tag with a verified EC is authorized to leave facility . Authorization reader may write the EC into tag authorizing it to leave the facility in response to receiving and verifying authorizing information. Authorizing information is provided by an entity wishing to remove tag and its associated item from facility . Authorizing information may include identification information account information payment authorization payment data e.g. electronic currency or electronic gift card balance credit limit information proof of payment an employee number item transportation information a security code a legal warrant or any other information suitable for an authorizing entity authorization reader or another authorizing entity to determine whether tag and its associated item should be authorized to leave facility . An authorizing entity upon receiving authorizing information attempts to verify the authorizing information. If the authorizing information is verified then the authorizing entity may provide the EC may allow authorization reader to generate the EC or may allow authorization reader to provide the EC.

In some embodiments the EC written to the tag may be an abridged multibit code formed from an original longer code where the abridging comprises at least one of truncating compressing selecting certain bits from and or otherwise reducing the longer code. For example the EC may be an abridged version of an original ES formed by truncating the original ES compressing the original ES and or selecting a subset of bits from the original ES. In some embodiments an abridging algorithm may be specific to a particular tag a particular group of tags a facility e.g. facility or any particular entity. In other embodiments the abridging algorithm may be generally used for RFID tags. Authorization reader may write an abridged code into the tag if for example the tag does not have sufficient memory or does not have sufficient tag memory space allocated for the original code. In some embodiments authorization reader may write an abridged code to speed up the write process. In other embodiments the abridged code may be generated based on an authentication mechanism. For example the tag may store an identifier identifying how the abridged code was abridged e.g. whether via truncation compression selection of a subset of bits etc. and if via truncation or selection of bits which portion or bits of the longer code was truncated or kept and subsequent readers e.g. verification reader below may use the stored portion identifier to authenticate the abridged code.

At or near the facility point of egress a point of exit or PoE verification reader located at verification station interrogates the tag and reads its OC EC and optionally its II. As will be described in connection with in some embodiments the II can function as an OC in which case verification reader will read the II as a surrogate for the OC. As described at operation verification reader checks the tag s OC and if the item is associated with the facility then verifies the EC. In some embodiments verification reader knows the algorithm and inputs used to compute the EC and verifies the EC by computing a verification value with the algorithm and inputs and comparing the verification value with the EC. If the EC is abridged verification reader may compute the verification value determine the abridging algorithm used to form the EC e.g. whether the abridging algorithm includes truncation compression selection of a subset of bits etc. derive an abridged verification value corresponding to the EC and compare the abridged verification value to the EC. Verification reader may determine the abridging algorithm based on information stored in the tag as described above information stored at verification reader or using information available over a network. In other embodiments verification reader may use the EC in a reverse computation. For example verification reader may reverse the algorithm or know the reversed algorithm and use the reversed algorithm to compute the initial inputs given the EC. If verification reader knows what the correct initial inputs should be it can compare the computed initial inputs with the correct initial inputs to verify the EC.

In embodiments where the EC includes an ES verification reader may verify the ES using the facility s secret for symmetric cryptosystems or using the facility s public key for asymmetric cryptosystems. For situations where the EC includes an abridged version of an original ES and verification reader knows the cryptographic algorithm and inputs used to compute the original ES verification reader may determine the abridging algorithm used to form the EC as described above compute a verification ES derive an abridged verification ES corresponding to the EC from the verification ES based on the abridging algorithm and compare the abridged verification ES to the EC.

If verification reader verifies the EC then item may be permitted to be removed through point of egress . If the EC is not verified then verification station may sound an alarm or otherwise notify authorities that an unauthorized item is departing the facility. Points of ingress and egress and may include doors doorways hallways ramps garages and similar.

In some embodiments the EC may also or instead include or be based on one time use codes referred to as tickets . A ticket encodes information known to both an authorization reader e.g. authorization reader and a verification reader e.g. verification reader and is used by an authorization reader to indicate to a verification reader that a particular item or tag is authorized to leave the facility. Tickets are multi bit values i.e. include more than one bit . Tickets may be random numbers generated for example by a random or pseudorandom number generator they may also be deterministic numbers generated by any type of number generating algorithm as will be known to those skilled in the art. Ticket generating algorithms may use as inputs a location a timestamp a device identity an II an OC or any other input. In some embodiments a cryptographic algorithm may generate the ticket.

As mentioned above tickets are one time use codes. After authorization reader assigns the selected ticket to tag and writes an EC based on the ticket to tag it does not use the ticket again. To prevent reuse authorization reader may dispose of the selected ticket by deleting the ticket from its memory flagging the ticket in memory as used associating an identifier e.g. an authorization reader identifier or an II with the ticket in reader memory or otherwise indicating that that selected ticket has been used. As a result each tag authorized to leave facility should be assigned a different ticket. Of course depending on the ticket length number of bits or words and number of items exiting the facility the system may eventually run out of tickets and start reusing previously used tickets but loss prevention systems will typically attempt to maintain ticket uniqueness at least for a reasonable period of time.

In operation at point of egress verification reader confirms the OC reads the EC and optionally reads the II stored on tag . Confirming the OC may involve selecting only tags with the facility OC for inventorying reading or may involve inventorying all tags and ignoring rejecting tags with an OC that is improper for the facility. Verification reader knows the tickets that authorization reader knows and can confirm whether the EC stored on tag includes is or is derived from a valid ticket and therefore was presumably written by authorization reader . Moreover verification reader can determine if the EC stored on tag is new i.e. not previously read by a verification reader or was previously observed by it or by another verification reader the latter may be another networked verification reader at a different facility point of egress . If the EC stored on tag is new then verification reader may assume that tag is authorized to leave the facility i.e. that authorization reader authorized the tag to leave by storing the EC on the tag and allows tag and item to leave facility . Verification reader then updates the list of tickets to indicate that the ticket assigned to tag has been used and may additionally associate the ticket with one or more identifiers including the II the OC and or identifier s of the verification reader authorization reader or the facility. Verification reader may also share the updated ticket list with a networked device such as other verification readers of the facility.

Subsequently if verification reader sees a previously read ticket assigned to the previously read tag then it may assume that the tagged item is reentering the facility such as for a product return and allow the tag to pass the point of egress. But if it sees a previously read ticket assigned to a different tag then it may assume that an attacker is trying to remove unauthorized items from facility and may sound an alarm or otherwise notify authorities. As described above the ticket may be an EC or may be derivable from the EC. Similarly if an unknown EC is stored on tag or if no EC or an otherwise invalid EC is stored on tag then verification reader may also sound an alarm or otherwise notify authorities. Finally the reader may ascertain that a tag has been previously read using the tag s II.

At operation mobile device interrogates tag to retrieve an II and an OC. The interrogation may be in response to an action indicating that tag and its associated item are to be removed from facility . As example actions a customer or employee associated with mobile device may choose tag and its associated item by bringing mobile device into close proximity to tag by scanning a label associated with tag by searching for tag using the mobile device or by any other suitable action. Mobile device then provides tag s II and OC to authorizing entity . In some embodiments mobile device may also provide authorizing information to authorizing entity such as customer identification information e.g. a customer account number or identifier or payment information e.g. payment authorization or proof of payment as described above in .

In some embodiments authorizing entity then selects a ticket and or computes an EC and provides the ticket and or EC to mobile device . In other embodiments mobile device may select or create the ticket and or compute at least a part of the EC by itself in some instances using information sent to mobile device by authorizing entity and in other instances by creating the ticket EC and sending it to authorizing entity for checking or registration. In some embodiments mobile device then writes the ticket EC into tag using a built in or external reader. In other embodiments mobile device may retain the ticket EC itself and provide the ticket EC in lieu of tag providing it when prompted by verification reader . Regardless of whether the ticket EC is stored in tag or mobile device mobile device may perform the storing in response to an action from the entity associated with mobile device .

At operation verification reader verifies the ticket or EC as described above in and updates a ticket list as necessary. If mobile device stores the ticket EC instead of tag storing it verification reader may verify both the correct EC ticket and whether mobile device accompanies departing tag . If correct verification reader allows tag to leave facility otherwise verification reader may sound an alarm or otherwise notify authorities.

When the entity associated with mobile device chooses to purchase or remove a tagged item the entity uses mobile device to write a received ticket or an EC based on one or more of its received tickets to the tag associated with the item. As a specific but non limiting example upon deciding to purchase item a customer selects item containing tag at which point mobile device writes an EC derived from a received ticket to tag . Mobile device may derive the EC from the received ticket using any of the methods described above. Of course mobile device may write the EC to tag when the customer selects item at a later time such as when both are near the verification reader or may associate the EC with item within the mobile device and not write the EC to tag . The consumer or facility may choose one of the latter approaches to thwart an eavesdropper from intercepting the EC and writing it to an unauthorized tag. Subsequently at operation verification reader verifies the EC as described above in updating a known ticket list if necessary.

Whereas in verification reader authorizes tag to leave facility by verifying the tag s II OC and EC in some embodiments verification reader may be connected via a facility network or the Internet to a verification authority. The verification authority may be configured to perform one or more of the verification steps described above e.g. verifying the EC updating a ticket scratchlist etc. . In this case verification reader may pass a tag II OC EC and or ticket to the verification authority for processing.

As described above tickets are one time use codes that an authorization reader assigns to a tag to indicate to a verification reader that the tag is authorized to leave a facility. Tickets may be generated by a facility e.g. facility by a parent of the facility by an organization associated with the facility by a security agency or organization or by any other suitable entity and then distributed to authorization and verification readers. Because a verification reader determines whether a tag with an assigned ticket is authorized to leave the facility based in part on whether the ticket has been previously seen the ticket generation may be configured to ensure that each ticket is substantially unique for at least a period of time. For example tickets may be randomly generated numbers may be based on a particular tag or tag type item or item type or other identifier may be based on information related to the authorization reader or may be based on any other suitable data. New tickets may be generated periodically e.g. every minute hour day week month etc. or dynamically e.g. as needed . A particular ticket may be guaranteed to be unique at least with respect to the facility for a particular predefined or dynamic period of time e.g. hours days weeks months etc. . Similarly ticket distribution may be configured to ensure that different authorization readers or mobile devices do not inadvertently assign the same ticket to different tags.

Whereas an authorization reader may receive a portion of scratchlist a verification reader e.g. verification reader may receive the entire scratchlist because the verification reader may see tags with tickets assigned by any of the authorization readers. If multiple verification readers exist at a facility each verification reader may receive a copy of scratchlist .

In some embodiments multiple authorization readers may select tickets from the same scratchlist portion and may update the scratchlist in real time to prevent other authorization readers from selecting the same ticket. In this case the scratchlist may not be divided into portions. In some embodiments a central controller may distribute tickets or blocks of tickets as needed and may update the scratchlist as tickets are assigned.

In some embodiments authorization readers may be provided with one or more ranges of ticket values to assign to tags instead of explicit ticket values. For example an authorization reader may be provided a ticket value range in the form of a starting ticket value e.g. ticket 1 an ending ticket value e.g. ticket 101 and an increment value e.g. increment by 1 2 3 or a dynamic value within the range. The authorization reader may then choose which tickets to assign to tags based on the starting increment and ending values. For example if an authorization reader is provided with a starting ticket value of 1 an ending ticket value of 10 and an increment value of 2 the device may assign ticket values 1 3 5 7 and 9. In some embodiments authorization readers may be provided with multiple ranges and different authorization readers may be provided with different ranges. Verification readers may know the range s assigned to the authorization readers and may be able to use the ranges to verify a ticket assigned to a tag.

Diagram is a detailed depiction of a scratchlist . Scratchlist may be similar to scratchlist in diagram . Scratchlist may be stored at an authorization reader a verification reader a central controller or at another suitable location. Scratchlist has multiple entries rows each entry corresponding to a particular ticket. Scratchlist is depicted as having at least three tickets ticket ticket and ticket . In other embodiments a scratchlist may have more or fewer tickets. Each ticket entry in scratchlist may have a ticket field and one or more optional other fields . Ticket field stores ticket values which may be created as described above. Optional other field s may store other information associated with the ticket such as an associated tag or item authorization reader authorizing information or other identifiers associated with a particular ticket including timestamps comments or any other suitable information and in some embodiments may be used to help determine if an item is authorized to leave a facility.

When a verification reader verifies that a ticket assigned to an exiting tag is both present in its locally stored scratchlist and has not been previously used the verification reader will typically store the tag s II but may also or instead store a timestamp a location identifier and or identifiers associated with the verification reader the tag or the tag s attached item in field associated with the ticket. Subsequently if the verification reader encounters a tag with a previously used ticket then it may retrieve the tag s II or other information and compare it to the information stored in field . If the information matches then the verification reader may assume that the tag and associated item are re entering or re exiting the facility. If the information does not match then the verification reader may assume that the item is not authorized to leave the facility and may sound an alarm or otherwise notify authorities.

As indicated by comment and described previously II identifies the tag and or the item to which the tag is attached and OC the item s associated facility. As indicated by comment EC may be generated based on an algorithm with one or more inputs such as a ticket also described previously. Tag memory may include counter which as described in comment indicates the number of times EC has been written to. Written to means one or more of writing overwriting incrementing decrementing erasing or otherwise altering. The functionality of counter is described below in reference to .

As indicated by comment RFID tag and by association the item attached to tag is authorized for removal from the facility if EC and counter s value if counter is present are verified. Verifying the EC may include using an algorithm a ticket and one or more inputs as described above. Verifying counter s value may include using the counter value the value relative to a terminal value the value relative to EC or other parameters as will be described below. Of course as described above if OC of RFID tag does not match the facility s OC or if OC does not exist then RFID tag and by association the item attached to tag may be considered not associated with the facility and therefore authorized for removal from the facility regardless of the EC. To inhibit the unauthorized removal of items II and OC may be write locked or permanently write locked and thereby rendered unchangeable. According to some embodiments EC and or counter may be unlocked or permanently unlocked to facilitate erasure or overwriting for items returned to the facility. For example a customer with a mobile device e.g. mobile device may purchase an item attached to tag causing EC to be stored on tag . Subsequently the customer may decide to return the item and the mobile device or another device may erase EC from tag .

At operation the authorization reader stores the EC in tag memory. In some embodiments if different authorization readers use different algorithms or different cryptographic keys then the authorization reader may also store information about its identity on the tag so that a subsequent verification reader can determine the correct algorithm or key to use for verification. If the authorization reader generates the EC from a ticket then it may indicate to other authorization readers verification readers or a network that the ticket has been used.

Embodiments as described herein include customer self checkout from a retail store. Consider a first scenario in which a customer decides to purchase a tagged item. The customer uses his or her mobile device to read the tag s II and OC. The mobile device sends the II OC and a customer identifier or payment information to an authorizing entity. The authorizing entity debits the customer s account then provides an EC or a portion of an EC to the mobile device. The mobile device writes the EC to the tag. At the store exit a verification reader verifies the II OC and EC and allows the tagged item to leave the store.

Consider a second similar self checkout retail scenario. When a customer enters a retail store and provides payment information an authorizing entity sends a block of tickets to the customer s mobile device. When the customer decides to purchase an item he or she instructs the mobile device to write one of the tickets into the tag s memory. The customer may continue shopping using additional tickets for each item that he or she wants to purchase. When the customer is finished shopping he or she simply leaves the store. A verification reader at the store exit reads each tag s II OC and ticket and sends the information to a store server. The store server then debits the customer s account for each item that exited the store. The store server determines the item type and price from the II and ensures that the customer intended to purchase the item from the fact that the customer wrote a ticket into the item s tag. The verification reader may sound an alarm if an exiting tag does not contain a ticket. The store server only charges the customer for tags that contain the facility OC and doesn t charge for foreign tags.

Consider a third self checkout retail scenario. A customer enters a retail store and chooses items to purchase using a mobile device. The mobile device stores each item s II. When the customer is finished shopping he or she simply leaves the store. A verification reader at the store exit reads each tag s II and OC. It queries the mobile device for the corresponding II to confirm that the consumer intended to purchase each item. It also queries the mobile device for payment information. It then sends the Its and payment information to a store server. The store server debits the customer s account for each item that exited the store. The verification reader may sound an alarm if an exiting tag s II is not in the mobile device or if the customer s payment information is incorrect or invalid. The store server only charges the customer for tags that contain the facility OC and doesn t charge for foreign tags. In this scenario the II stored in the mobile device is a surrogate for a ticket.

For each of the above scenarios customer returns are easy because the EC in the first scenario ticket in the second scenario and surrogate ticket in the mobile device are proof of purchase. When the customer returns the item the store verifies the EC or ticket refunds the charge erases the EC or ticket from the tag and or from the store server and places the item back on the shelf.

Of course the above self checkout scenarios are only three of the many that are possible using the embodiments and teachings described herein.

Consider again the first self checkout scenario in which the customer obtains and write an EC into an item s tag at time of purchase. Suppose the customer still in the retail store has a change of heart and decides not to purchase an item after all. The customer may use his or her mobile device to contact the authorizing entity and reverse the charge but the customer still possesses a valid EC authorizing the tag and its associated item to leave the facility. If the store s verification readers are connected to the authorizing entity e.g. via a network then the authorizing entity can invalidate the EC and send the invalidation to the verification readers which can alarm on tags with the now invalid EC leaving the store. But suppose that the verification readers are not connected to the authorizing entity or that the store is so large that updating the verification readers in near real time isn t possible. In this case a tagged item with an invalid EC could leave the store without sounding an alarm. To address this issue in some embodiments a tag may implement a counter that combined with the EC assists in tracking whether the item is authorized to leave the store.

Diagram depicts tag being authorized to leave a facility. At operation mobile device reads the tag s II and counter value CT. At operation mobile device sends the II CT and authorizing information AI to authorizing entity . At operation authorizing entity uses the II to determine the increment values associated with counter . These increment values shown as CT and CT in diagrams and are known to authorizing entity but not to mobile device .

Upon verifying the AI provided at operation authorizing entity uses the determined next counter value CT to generate exit code EC CT . If authorizing entity had received counter value CT at operation then it would have used CT to generate exit code EC CT . Authorizing entity will typically generate EC CT using at least a portion of CT or at least a portion of CT and other data such as the II and or a random number as inputs to an algorithm. The algorithm can be any of those described above in connection with generating an EC. In some embodiments authorizing entity may track the values of counter over time and may refuse to generate an EC if the received counter value does not match the expected counter value.

At operation authorizing entity provides EC CT to mobile device which writes EC CT to tag memory portion at operation . The write operation causes counter to increment to CT. A verification reader that subsequently observes tag may be configured to compare EC CT to the current value of counter . If the two correspond e.g. EC CT and CT then verification reader may conclude that tag is authorized to leave the facility. If the two do not correspond then the verification reader may conclude that tag is not authorized to leave the facility and may sound an alarm.

Diagram depicts revoking tag s exit authorization needed if a consumer chooses not to purchase a previously selected item. At operation mobile device erases EC CT stored in tag memory portion . The erase operation causes tag to increment counter to CT. At operation mobile device reads CT from counter . At operation mobile device sends CT the tag s II and a return request to authorizing entity which verifies that CT is the correct next value for counter and in response authorizes the return request at operation . If the provided CT is incorrect then the authorizing entity may choose to deny the return and take other action such as notifying store security or other authorities.

Process begins with operation where the reader reads a tag s OC. As will be described below in some embodiments the tag s II may function as a surrogate OC in which case the reader reads the tag s II and uses it as the OC. At decision operation the reader determines whether the tag s OC matches the facility s OC. If the tag s OC does not match the facility s OC or does not exist then the tagged item is allowed to leave the facility at operation . If the tag s OC matches the facility s OC then the reader reads the tag s II at operation and may read optional code s such as tag feature information a timestamp a counter value or other information as described above at optional operation . At operation the reader reads an EC associated with the tag. The EC may be stored on the tag or on a mobile device associated with the tag. In some embodiments as described above the tag s II may function as an EC and a mobile device may store the tag s II.

At operation the reader verifies the EC which may be a ticket or may be computed based on an algorithm and or a ticket and may contain an ES all described above. The verification may involve a table lookup a comparison an encryption a decryption a recomputation using known inputs a reverse computation from the EC a counter value check a scratchlist check an already seen check or any of the other methodologies described above. The reader may read a key or authorization reader identifier to determine the correct algorithm or key to use to verify the EC or may iterate through its known algorithms or keys to verify the EC.

In some embodiments the verification reader may connect to a verification authority configured to perform one or more of the steps in the verification process such as verifying the EC updating a ticket scratchlist etc. If so the verification reader may have the verification authority perform some or all of the verification steps.

At decision operation if the verification fails then at operation the tagged item is not allowed to leave the facility. As described above one method for preventing an item with an unverified EC from leaving a facility is by triggering an alert or alarm such as at optional operation . If the verification succeeds then at operation the tagged item is allowed to leave the facility. If the verification succeeds and the EC is or is based on a ticket then at optional operation the reader may update its scratchlist as described above in . In some embodiments if multiple verification readers exist typically at multiple facility exits then the reader may synchronize its updated scratchlist with other readers.

Process also applies in situations where the EC and or the ticket is stored in a mobile device as described above in and . However instead of reading the EC from the tag the reader reads the EC and or the ticket from the mobile device. In some embodiments a particular EC or ticket may be associated with and authorize multiple tags and attached items to be removed from the facility.

In some embodiments the verification operation involves the provision of authorizing information. For example a mobile device may store a tag s II and use the II as an EC. Upon determining that the mobile device stores the II the verification reader may request authorizing information from the mobile device. The authorizing information may then be verified at the verification reader or by a separate authorizing or verification entity connected to the verification reader.

The operations described in processes and are for illustration purposes only. An RFID based loss prevention system and its operations may be implemented employing additional or fewer operations and in different orders using the principles described herein. For example although reader operations are described herein as proceeding serially those skilled in the art will recognize that in any deployed RFID system one or more of these operations may be merged for example the authorization reader may read the tag s II OC EC and an optional counter value all at once .

Whereas in the above embodiments tags store OCs indicating an associated organization or facility in other embodiments tags may not store OCs particularly in applications that do not expect to see foreign tags. If the tags do not store OCs then EC generation and tag verification will not involve OCs.

In some embodiments a facility may store the II of all tags associated with the facility. When a verification reader checks if a particular tag is authorized to leave the facility it may check the II as a surrogate for the OC. For example instead of reading a tag s OC and checking to see if the tag s OC matches the facility s OC as described at operations and of process a verification reader may read an II and check to see if the II is associated with the facility. In such embodiments the tag need not store a separate OC because the II behaves as both an II and an OC.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams and or examples contain one or more functions and or aspects it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or aspect within such block diagrams or examples may be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the RFID embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part may be equivalently implemented employing integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods configurations antennas transmission lines and the like which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

