---

title: Method, system and program product for collaboration of video files
abstract: A method, system and program product comprise communicating to a server system. The server system is at least configured to receive video/audio uploads from users, to maintain the uploads in a database of collaborations comprising video files where each of the video files comprises a same video file format, and to send to a user a collaboration. A collaboration from the server system is received for presentation to a user. A contribution to the received collaboration is recorded. The contribution is uploaded to the server system. The server system is further configured to process the contribution into the received collaboration to have the same video file format and to at least layer audio.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584567&OS=09584567&RS=09584567
owner: 
number: 09584567
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140304
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

One or more embodiments of the invention generally relate to collaboration of data. More particularly the invention relates to collaboration and audio layering of video files.

The following background information may present examples of specific aspects of the prior art e.g. without limitation approaches facts or common wisdom that while expected to be helpful to further educate the reader as to additional aspects of the prior art is not to be construed as limiting the present invention or any embodiments thereof to anything stated or implied therein or inferred thereupon.

Many musicians in the world want to be heard and more than that many may want to be seen and heard in harmony with other musicians. Musicians also want a simple way to collaborate with other musicians from anywhere without any compatibility issues.

The following is an example of a specific aspect in the prior art that while expected to be helpful to further educate the reader as to additional aspects of the prior art is not to be construed as limiting the present invention or any embodiments thereof to anything stated or implied therein or inferred thereupon. One such aspect of the prior art teaches of a system that provides a virtual music studio on the internet. By way of educational background another aspect of the prior art generally useful to be aware of discloses a system that may be configures to obtain payment from an artist before performance data such as audio and or video data is uploaded to the community. Another such aspect of the prior art teaches of a system in which musical notes may be added deleted or moved and section of notes may be transposed quantized etc. However these solutions may be suitable for providing a platform for users to collaborate musical pieces and other works. A solution which did so would be desirable.

In view of the foregoing it is clear that these traditional techniques are not perfect and leave room for more optimal approaches.

The present invention is best understood by reference to the detailed figures and description set forth herein.

Embodiments of the invention are discussed below with reference to the Figures. However those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the detailed description given herein with respect to these figures is for explanatory purposes as the invention extends beyond these limited embodiments. For example it should be appreciated that those skilled in the art will in light of the teachings of the present invention recognize a multiplicity of alternate and suitable approaches depending upon the needs of the particular application to implement the functionality of any given detail described herein beyond the particular implementation choices in the following embodiments described and shown. That is there are numerous modifications and variations of the invention that are too numerous to be listed but that all fit within the scope of the invention. Also singular words should be read as plural and vice versa and masculine as feminine and vice versa where appropriate and alternative embodiments do not necessarily imply that the two are mutually exclusive.

It is to be further understood that the present invention is not limited to the particular methodology compounds materials manufacturing techniques uses and applications described herein as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include the plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example a reference to an element is a reference to one or more elements and includes equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art. Similarly for another example a reference to a step or a means is a reference to one or more steps or means and may include sub steps and subservient means. All conjunctions used are to be understood in the most inclusive sense possible. Thus the word or should be understood as having the definition of a logical or rather than that of a logical exclusive or unless the context clearly necessitates otherwise. Structures described herein are to be understood also to refer to functional equivalents of such structures. Language that may be construed to express approximation should be so understood unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Preferred methods techniques devices and materials are described although any methods techniques devices or materials similar or equivalent to those described herein may be used in the practice or testing of the present invention. Structures described herein are to be understood also to refer to functional equivalents of such structures. The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

From reading the present disclosure other variations and modifications will be apparent to persons skilled in the art. Such variations and modifications may involve equivalent and other features which are already known in the art and which may be used instead of or in addition to features already described herein.

Although Claims have been formulated in this Application to particular combinations of features it should be understood that the scope of the disclosure of the present invention also includes any novel feature or any novel combination of features disclosed herein either explicitly or implicitly or any generalization thereof whether or not it relates to the same invention as presently claimed in any Claim and whether or not it mitigates any or all of the same technical problems as does the present invention.

Features which are described in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features which are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any suitable subcombination. The Applicants hereby give notice that new Claims may be formulated to such features and or combinations of such features during the prosecution of the present Application or of any further Application derived therefrom.

References to one embodiment an embodiment example embodiment various embodiments etc. may indicate that the embodiment s of the invention so described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but not every embodiment necessarily includes the particular feature structure or characteristic. Further repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment or in an exemplary embodiment do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment although they may.

Headings provided herein are for convenience and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any way.

The enumerated listing of items does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise.

Devices or system modules that are in at least general communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. In addition devices or system modules that are in at least general communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.

A description of an embodiment with several components in communication with each other does not imply that all such components are required. On the contrary a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the present invention.

As is well known to those skilled in the art many careful considerations and compromises typically must be made when designing for the optimal manufacture of a commercial implementation any system and in particular the embodiments of the present invention. A commercial implementation in accordance with the spirit and teachings of the present invention may configured according to the needs of the particular application whereby any aspect s feature s function s result s component s approach es or step s of the teachings related to any described embodiment of the present invention may be suitably omitted included adapted mixed and matched or improved and or optimized by those skilled in the art using their average skills and known techniques to achieve the desired implementation that addresses the needs of the particular application.

A computer may refer to one or more apparatus and or one or more systems that are capable of accepting a structured input processing the structured input according to prescribed rules and producing results of the processing as output. Examples of a computer may include a computer a stationary and or portable computer a computer having a single processor multiple processors or multi core processors which may operate in parallel and or not in parallel a general purpose computer a supercomputer a mainframe a super mini computer a mini computer a workstation a micro computer a server a client an interactive television a web appliance a telecommunications device with internet access a hybrid combination of a computer and an interactive television a portable computer a tablet personal computer PC a personal digital assistant PDA a portable telephone application specific hardware to emulate a computer and or software such as for example a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC an application specific instruction set processor ASIP a chip chips a system on a chip or a chip set a data acquisition device an optical computer a quantum computer a biological computer and generally an apparatus that may accept data process data according to one or more stored software programs generate results and typically include input output storage arithmetic logic and control units.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that where appropriate some embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Where appropriate embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination thereof through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

 Software may refer to prescribed rules to operate a computer. Examples of software may include code segments in one or more computer readable languages graphical and or textual instructions applets pre compiled code interpreted code compiled code and computer programs.

The example embodiments described herein can be implemented in an operating environment comprising computer executable instructions e.g. software installed on a computer in hardware or in a combination of software and hardware. The computer executable instructions can be written in a computer programming language or can be embodied in firmware logic. If written in a programming language conforming to a recognized standard such instructions can be executed on a variety of hardware platforms and for interfaces to a variety of operating systems. Although not limited thereto computer software program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention can be written in any combination of one or more suitable programming languages including an object oriented programming languages and or conventional procedural programming languages and or programming languages such as for example Hyper text Markup Language HTML Dynamic HTML Extensible Markup Language XML Extensible Stylesheet Language XSL Document Style Semantics and Specification Language DSSSL Cascading Style Sheets CSS Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language SMIL Wireless Markup Language WML Java Jini C C Smalltalk Perl UNIX Shell Visual Basic or Visual Basic Script Virtual Reality Markup Language VRML ColdFusion or other compilers assemblers interpreters or other computer languages or platforms.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

A network is a collection of links and nodes e.g. multiple computers and or other devices connected together arranged so that information may be passed from one part of the network to another over multiple links and through various nodes. Examples of networks include the Internet the public switched telephone network the global Telex network computer networks e.g. an intranet an extranet a local area network or a wide area network wired networks and wireless networks.

The Internet is a worldwide network of computers and computer networks arranged to allow the easy and robust exchange of information between computer users. Hundreds of millions of people around the world have access to computers connected to the Internet via Internet Service Providers ISPs . Content providers e.g. website owners or operators place multimedia information e.g. text graphics audio video animation and other forms of data at specific locations on the Internet referred to as webpages. Websites comprise a collection of connected or otherwise related webpages. The combination of all the websites and their corresponding webpages on the Internet is generally known as the World Wide Web WWW or simply the Web.

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Further although process steps method steps algorithms or the like may be described in a sequential order such processes methods and algorithms may be configured to work in alternate orders. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be described does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of processes described herein may be performed in any order practical. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously.

It will be readily apparent that the various methods and algorithms described herein may be implemented by e.g. appropriately programmed general purpose computers and computing devices. Typically a processor e.g. a microprocessor will receive instructions from a memory or like device and execute those instructions thereby performing a process defined by those instructions. Further programs that implement such methods and algorithms may be stored and transmitted using a variety of known media.

When a single device or article is described herein it will be readily apparent that more than one device article whether or not they cooperate may be used in place of a single device article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein whether or not they cooperate it will be readily apparent that a single device article may be used in place of the more than one device or article.

The functionality and or the features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are not explicitly described as having such functionality features. Thus other embodiments of the present invention need not include the device itself.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing data e.g. instructions which may be read by a computer a processor or a like device. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media include dynamic random access memory DRAM which typically constitutes the main memory. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic waves light waves and electromagnetic emissions such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave as described hereinafter or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying sequences of instructions to a processor. For example sequences of instruction i may be delivered from RAM to a processor ii may be carried over a wireless transmission medium and or iii may be formatted according to numerous formats standards or protocols such as Bluetooth TDMA CDMA 3G.

Where databases are described it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that i alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed ii other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any schematic illustrations and accompanying descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are exemplary arrangements for stored representations of information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides those suggested by the tables shown. Similarly any illustrated entries of the databases represent exemplary information only those skilled in the art will understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those illustrated herein. Further despite any depiction of the databases as tables an object based model could be used to store and manipulate the data types of the present invention and likewise object methods or behaviors can be used to implement the processes of the present invention.

A computer system may refer to a system having one or more computers where each computer may include a computer readable medium embodying software to operate the computer or one or more of its components. Examples of a computer system may include a distributed computer system for processing information via computer systems linked by a network two or more computer systems connected together via a network for transmitting and or receiving information between the computer systems a computer system including two or more processors within a single computer and one or more apparatuses and or one or more systems that may accept data may process data in accordance with one or more stored software programs may generate results and typically may include input output storage arithmetic logic and control units.

A network may refer to a number of computers and associated devices that may be connected by communication facilities. A network may involve permanent connections such as cables or temporary connections such as those made through telephone or other communication links. A network may further include hard wired connections e.g. coaxial cable twisted pair optical fiber waveguides etc. and or wireless connections e.g. radio frequency waveforms free space optical waveforms acoustic waveforms etc. . Examples of a network may include an internet such as the Internet an intranet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and a combination of networks such as an internet and an intranet.

As used herein the client side application should be broadly construed to refer to an application a page associated with that application or some other resource or function invoked by a client side request to the application. A browser as used herein is not intended to refer to any specific browser e.g. Internet Explorer Safari FireFox or the like but should be broadly construed to refer to any client side rendering engine that can access and display Internet accessible resources. A rich client typically refers to a non HTTP based client side application such as an SSH or CFIS client. Further while typically the client server interactions occur using HTTP this is not a limitation either. The client server interaction may be formatted to conform to the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP and travel over HTTP over the public Internet FTP or any other reliable transport mechanism such as IBM MQSeries technologies and CORBA for transport over an enterprise intranet may be used. Any application or functionality described herein may be implemented as native code by providing hooks into another application by facilitating use of the mechanism as a plug in by linking to the mechanism and the like.

Exemplary networks may operate with any of a number of protocols such as Internet protocol IP asynchronous transfer mode ATM and or synchronous optical network SONET user datagram protocol UDP IEEE 802.x etc.

Embodiments of the present invention may include apparatuses for performing the operations disclosed herein. An apparatus may be specially constructed for the desired purposes or it may comprise a general purpose device selectively activated or reconfigured by a program stored in the device.

Embodiments of the invention may also be implemented in one or a combination of hardware firmware and software. They may be implemented as instructions stored on a machine readable medium which may be read and executed by a computing platform to perform the operations described herein.

More specifically as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

In the following description and claims the terms computer program medium and computer readable medium may be used to generally refer to media such as but not limited to removable storage drives a hard disk installed in hard disk drive and the like. These computer program products may provide software to a computer system. Embodiments of the invention may be directed to such computer program products.

An algorithm is here and generally considered to be a self consistent sequence of acts or operations leading to a desired result. These include physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be understood however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise and as may be apparent from the following description and claims it should be appreciated that throughout the specification descriptions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulate and or transform data represented as physical such as electronic quantities within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

In a similar manner the term processor may refer to any device or portion of a device that processes electronic data from registers and or memory to transform that electronic data into other electronic data that may be stored in registers and or memory. A computing platform may comprise one or more processors.

Embodiments within the scope of the present disclosure may also include tangible and or non transitory computer readable storage media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such non transitory computer readable storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer including the functional design of any special purpose processor as discussed above. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media can include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions data structures or processor chip design. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or combination thereof to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of the computer readable media.

While a non transitory computer readable medium includes but is not limited to a hard drive compact disc flash memory volatile memory random access memory magnetic memory optical memory semiconductor based memory phase change memory optical memory periodically refreshed memory and the like the non transitory computer readable medium however does not include a pure transitory signal per se i.e. where the medium itself is transitory.

Some embodiments may provide means and or methods for users to collaborate with other users. In some embodiments users may upload data using an internet service.

In some embodiments users may access embodiment software through various internet platforms including without limitation websites or mobile applications. In some of these embodiments software may be suitable to receive and or transmit various types of data including without limitation audio video images and text.

In many embodiments all videos are open to anyone worldwide who wants to contribute layer. In many embodiments any video even later contributions may be a source video. In many embodiments all tracks will layer the audio and will also have the visual of the musician playing or a music visualization. In many embodiments the video string will continue parallel to the users contributing.

In many embodiments may include virtual apparatus which allows a server to process video audio uploads and layer audio for collaborative mixing. As a non limiting example if upload is solely audio a video file will be generated with a music visualization. In many embodiments collaborative mixing of video audio uploads is performed in an asynchronous manner and accessible for users via the world wide web.

As a non limiting example starting with one video there may be a limitless amount of secondary videos that are recorded off the base original video. Anyone may then listen to any of the combinations and then add to the music string. A limitless amount of additional videos may be made of that string. Anyone could then listen to any of the next combined music strings and add their own video. This may be repeated so any uploaded single video may have limitless amount of possible combinations strings with limitless possibilities. The website is for the musicians but also for the non musicians to listen to new music. In many embodiments all services are offered through the website with no other downloads.

In some embodiments all the video uploads may be synced layered so that the audio can match up. In some embodiments the server allows the users to upload videos. These videos will be layered with the audio from video. In some embodiments a virtual system that facilitates the asynchronous music collaboration from layering the video and audio is included. In some embodiments the server will facilitate the virtual collaboration and layering of the community creative commons. In some embodiments all the video audio files will be layered on the server. In some embodiments the audio from videos submitted by users may be layered into the strings of videos of the user who listens and then records along with the audio. In some embodiments all the uploads may be video. Even the audio files will be video because of the attachments. In some embodiments the uploads may be primarily video. All audio files will be accepted but the audio files will have a video file attached. The audio upload will have a music visualization video file attached. In some embodiments the music visualization will be for entertainment or professional uses. In some embodiments all the video uploads that are semi linked will be layered by audio. In some embodiments the videos may be viewed by a cell view or the full screen of any video sequence. In some embodiments the users may listen to the prior recordings with personal ear listening devices so the video will not have unnecessary background noise. In some embodiments a virtual metronome may be present when recording or adding to a track. This may only be available in the recording process to ensure all the tracks are synced. The metronome may be turned on or off depending on the user s preference. In some embodiments all the videos can be a source video. In some embodiments any user s video may be a source video even if the video was recorded over a base video. Some embodiments may include a social network option throughout the apparatus especially pertaining to musicians. In some embodiments the social networking may include for example but not limited to friending video string comments friends messaging and personal profile. In some embodiments personal profile can include but not limited to location strings started contributed and all the relevant info the user wants to reveal. In some embodiments a random playlist may exist. This playlist may comprise common strings of videos and or most liked strings of video. In some embodiments the playlist may be customized by but not limited to genre popularity instrument combinations geographical locations etc. In some embodiments the users may post teaching videos pertaining to musical instruments and or the teaching videos. In some embodiments a search bar may be included on all pages of the website. In some embodiments the search bar may search for but not limited to primarily the strings or songs followed by participating instruments musicians or genres. In some embodiments all searches may have filters to determine what the user is searching for. In some embodiments an established professional musician or band may have a start video to attract traffic. In some embodiments a musician s may host tryouts to search for desired user to fill their position. In some embodiments the user s location may be displayed on a virtual map. This shows viewers what part of the world the users from existing strings are playing from. In the present embodiment users may sync multiple data samples in a step . In some embodiments data samples may be from multiple users. In a non limiting example a first user may upload video B which may be complementary to a stored video A from a second user and the first and or second user may sync video B with video A to create a collaboration. In the present embodiment users may access collaborations from any users in a step . Further in the present embodiment users may repeat previous steps to create collaborations of any number of data samples. In some embodiments users may remove individual data samples from collaborations. In the present embodiment a user may decide whether to remove individual data samples from a collaboration in a step . In the present embodiment a user may remove one or more individual data samples from a collaboration in a step . In some embodiments users may only remove data samples from copies of collaborations and a server may maintain original copies of collaborations. In other embodiments users may remove individual data samples from original collaborations. In some embodiments editing of data samples may be accomplished offline. In a non limiting example a user may download one or more files from a server disconnect from the server edit add data samples and reconnect to the server to upload the edited files.

In some embodiments data uploads from users may be restricted to one or more allowable types of data such as without limitation video. In a non limiting example all available user data may on an internet platform may be user videos. In the present non limiting example a user may submit an audio file but the internet platform may convert the audio file to video using generic video data. In alternative embodiments users may upload data of any type.

Some embodiments may allow users to provide feedback on individual data samples and or collaborations from other users. In a non limiting example a user may select an up vote or a down vote for an individual data sample and or a portion of a data sample. In another non limiting example a user may select a number of stars as a rating for a data sample and or a collaboration. In some embodiments an internet platform may store profiles for individual users which may show feedback individual users may have received. In a non limiting example a first user may receive a point each time another user submits positive feedback on an upload by the first user.

In some embodiments software may automatically synchronize data samples. In other embodiments users may manually synchronize data samples. In a non limiting example a user may view a graphical representation of one or more audio tracks and manually adjust portions of audio left or right and or erase portions of audio. In the present non limiting example edits may be performed at any suitable resolutions such as without limitation one or two milliseconds. In some embodiments users may edit move in a slide drag option. In some embodiments data samples may have attached files such as without limitation .WAV files for matching up to other data samples.

Some embodiments may allow users to access data in a variety of ways. In a non limiting example a user may create a playlist of musical tracks submitted by users or listen to a random playlist generated by the software. In another non limiting example users may performs searches of data samples and or collaborations using a search based on without limitation title of data name of uploading user or genre. In another non limiting example software may store a record of activity by individual users and users may view activity history.

In some embodiments internet platform may have a graphical representation of user locations. In a non limiting example a user may select a collaboration and software may display a world map showing a general location of each user involved in the collaboration as well as some profile information about each user.

Some embodiments may allow users to communicate with other users through an internet platform. In a non limiting example a first user may add a second user as a friend which may allow the first user to more easily communicate with the second user. In another non limiting example users may post requests for edits and or submissions of data samples. In the present non limiting example a band may host auditions which may be advertised on a home page of an internet platform for a fee.

In some embodiments internet platform may provide various features to assist users. In a non limiting example an internet platform may have training videos for users who may wish to learn to play an instrument. In another non limiting example an internet platform may have a metronome or other means for time keeping which users may use while making recordings. In another non limiting example an internet platform may allow users to add distortion feedback sustain etc. to data samples. In some embodiments users may post instructional videos to assist other users.

Some embodiments may incorporate an Application Programming Interface. In a non limiting example a group of users may construct a website which may facilitate collaborations of the group as well as serve as a sub database of collaborations of the group.

Those skilled in the art will readily recognize in light of and in accordance with the teachings of the present invention that any of the foregoing steps and or system modules may be suitably replaced reordered removed and additional steps and or system modules may be inserted depending upon the needs of the particular application and that the systems of the foregoing embodiments may be implemented using any of a wide variety of suitable processes and system modules and is not limited to any particular computer hardware software middleware firmware microcode and the like. For any method steps described in the present application that can be carried out on a computing machine a typical computer system can when appropriately configured or designed serve as a computer system in which those aspects of the invention may be embodied.

A communication system includes a multiplicity of clients with a sampling of clients denoted as a client and a client a multiplicity of local networks with a sampling of networks denoted as a local network and a local network a global network and a multiplicity of servers with a sampling of servers denoted as a server and a server .

Client may communicate bi directionally with local network via a communication channel . Client may communicate bi directionally with local network via a communication channel . Local network may communicate bi directionally with global network via a communication channel . Local network may communicate bi directionally with global network via a communication channel . Global network may communicate bi directionally with server and server via a communication channel . Server and server may communicate bi directionally with each other via communication channel . Furthermore clients local networks global network and servers may each communicate bi directionally with each other.

In one embodiment global network may operate as the Internet. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that communication system may take many different forms. Non limiting examples of forms for communication system include local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs wired telephone networks wireless networks or any other network supporting data communication between respective entities.

Clients and may take many different forms. Non limiting examples of clients and include personal computers personal digital assistants PDAs cellular phones and smartphones.

Client includes a CPU a pointing device a keyboard a microphone a printer a memory a mass memory storage a GUI a video camera an input output interface and a network interface .

CPU pointing device keyboard microphone printer memory mass memory storage GUI video camera input output interface and network interface may communicate in a unidirectional manner or a bi directional manner with each other via a communication channel . Communication channel may be configured as a single communication channel or a multiplicity of communication channels.

CPU may be comprised of a single processor or multiple processors. CPU may be of various types including micro controllers e.g. with embedded RAM ROM and microprocessors such as programmable devices e.g. RISC or SISC based or CPLDs and FPGAs and devices not capable of being programmed such as gate array ASICs Application Specific Integrated Circuits or general purpose microprocessors.

As is well known in the art memory is used typically to transfer data and instructions to CPU in a bi directional manner. Memory as discussed previously may include any suitable computer readable media intended for data storage such as those described above excluding any wired or wireless transmissions unless specifically noted. Mass memory storage may also be coupled bi directionally to CPU and provides additional data storage capacity and may include any of the computer readable media described above. Mass memory storage may be used to store programs data and the like and is typically a secondary storage medium such as a hard disk. It will be appreciated that the information retained within mass memory storage may in appropriate cases be incorporated in standard fashion as part of memory as virtual memory.

CPU may be coupled to GUI . GUI enables a user to view the operation of computer operating system and software. CPU may be coupled to pointing device . Non limiting examples of pointing device include computer mouse trackball and touchpad. Pointing device enables a user with the capability to maneuver a computer cursor about the viewing area of GUI and select areas or features in the viewing area of GUI . CPU may be coupled to keyboard . Keyboard enables a user with the capability to input alphanumeric textual information to CPU . CPU may be coupled to microphone . Microphone enables audio produced by a user to be recorded processed and communicated by CPU . CPU may be connected to printer . Printer enables a user with the capability to print information to a sheet of paper. CPU may be connected to video camera . Video camera enables video produced or captured by user to be recorded processed and communicated by CPU .

CPU may also be coupled to input output interface that connects to one or more input output devices such as such as CD ROM video monitors track balls mice keyboards microphones touch sensitive displays transducer card readers magnetic or paper tape readers tablets styluses voice or handwriting recognizers or other well known input devices such as of course other computers.

Finally CPU optionally may be coupled to network interface which enables communication with an external device such as a database or a computer or telecommunications or internet network using an external connection shown generally as communication channel which may be implemented as a hardwired or wireless communications link using suitable conventional technologies. With such a connection CPU might receive information from the network or might output information to a network in the course of performing the method steps described in the teachings of the present invention.

A communication system includes a multiplicity of networked regions with a sampling of regions denoted as a network region and a network region a global network and a multiplicity of servers with a sampling of servers denoted as a server device and a server device .

Network region and network region may operate to represent a network contained within a geographical area or region. Non limiting examples of representations for the geographical areas for the networked regions may include postal zip codes telephone area codes states counties cities and countries. Elements within network region and may operate to communicate with external elements within other networked regions or within elements contained within the same network region.

In some implementations global network may operate as the Internet. It will be understood by those skilled in the art that communication system may take many different forms. Non limiting examples of forms for communication system include local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs wired telephone networks cellular telephone networks or any other network supporting data communication between respective entities via hardwired or wireless communication networks. Global network may operate to transfer information between the various networked elements.

Server device and server device may operate to execute software instructions store information support database operations and communicate with other networked elements. Non limiting examples of software and scripting languages which may be executed on server device and server device include C C C and Java.

Network region may operate to communicate bi directionally with global network via a communication channel . Network region may operate to communicate bi directionally with global network via a communication channel . Server device may operate to communicate bi directionally with global network via a communication channel . Server device may operate to communicate bi directionally with global network via a communication channel . Network region and global network and server devices and may operate to communicate with each other and with every other networked device located within communication system .

Server device includes a networking device and a server . Networking device may operate to communicate bi directionally with global network via communication channel and with server via a communication channel . Server may operate to execute software instructions and store information.

Network region includes a multiplicity of clients with a sampling denoted as a client and a client . Client includes a networking device a processor a GUI and an interface device . Non limiting examples of devices for GUI include monitors televisions cellular telephones smartphones and PDAs Personal Digital Assistants . Non limiting examples of interface device include pointing device mouse trackball scanner and printer. Networking device may communicate bi directionally with global network via communication channel and with processor via a communication channel . GUI may receive information from processor via a communication channel for presentation to a user for viewing. Interface device may operate to send control information to processor and to receive information from processor via a communication channel . Network region includes a multiplicity of clients with a sampling denoted as a client and a client . Client includes a networking device a processor a GUI and an interface device . Non limiting examples of devices for GUI include monitors televisions cellular telephones smartphones and PDAs Personal Digital Assistants . Non limiting examples of interface device include pointing devices mousse trackballs scanners and printers. Networking device may communicate bi directionally with global network via communication channel and with processor via a communication channel . GUI may receive information from processor via a communication channel for presentation to a user for viewing. Interface device may operate to send control information to processor and to receive information from processor via a communication channel .

For example consider the case where a user interfacing with client may want to execute a networked application. A user may enter the IP Internet Protocol address for the networked application using interface device . The IP address information may be communicated to processor via communication channel . Processor may then communicate the IP address information to networking device via communication channel . Networking device may then communicate the IP address information to global network via communication channel . Global network may then communicate the IP address information to networking device of server device via communication channel . Networking device may then communicate the IP address information to server via communication channel . Server may receive the IP address information and after processing the IP address information may communicate return information to networking device via communication channel . Networking device may communicate the return information to global network via communication channel . Global network may communicate the return information to networking device via communication channel . Networking device may communicate the return information to processor via communication channel . Processor may communicate the return information to GUI via communication channel . User may then view the return information on GUI .

A user anywhere in the world can use jampede on a computer or any internet connected device. When ready the computer will display visual instructions and the user will prepare instrument and user will place earphones or any other listening device on so prior audio can be heard. When user is ready he she will set video camera or any other recording instrument to record playing along with prior recordings from computer . Earphones are to eliminate previous noise. Ideally the only sound the recording will only have is the noise from the instrument .

After a user records a video audio the user uploads it to jampede . Jampede s database processes the video and makes it available for everyone to see and to contribute to. Another user views the prior video upload . The second user then records themselves playing while listening to prior recording . When second user matches up audio and completes the process he she uploads the contribution to jampede s database . Jampede s database combines audio from both videos and and links them together. Both videos and audio have been modified so they can be viewed listened to together .

To any future listeners they can see both videos and listen to audio from prior videos on one screen . This is where the combined music comes together and the audio is layered overlapped. Both musician s videos can be viewed side by side or in a full screen view. This screen is an example of what most viewable videos might look like but an infinite number of videos can be viewed on this screen but this depends on how many uploads there are. Any other users can repeat this process to make more videos in the sequence .

A user creates a video without listening to a prior video also known as an original or source video. Another user uploads their contribution and matches audio up . Other users and are all contributing based off the user and other user contributions. This can be repeated unlimitedly .

Another example is user listens to user and user uploads a contribution and matches audio up. Other users and are all contributing based off user and other user contributions. This can be repeated unlimitedly .

Another example is user listens to user and user uploads a contribution and matches audio up. Other users and are all contributing based off user and other user contributions. This can be repeated unlimitedly .

After the most recent upload and the thread has stopped there is always room for other contributions. This thread is awaiting other users to contribute. Other users listen and want to contribute any of their contributions can also be an original or source video but this is not automatic though it is an option.

It will be further apparent to those skilled in the art that at least a portion of the novel method steps and or system components of the present invention may be practiced and or located in location s possibly outside the jurisdiction of the United States of America USA whereby it will be accordingly readily recognized that at least a subset of the novel method steps and or system components in the foregoing embodiments must be practiced within the jurisdiction of the USA for the benefit of an entity therein or to achieve an object of the present invention. Thus some alternate embodiments of the present invention may be configured to comprise a smaller subset of the foregoing means for and or steps described that the applications designer will selectively decide depending upon the practical considerations of the particular implementation to carry out and or locate within the jurisdiction of the USA. For example any of the foregoing described method steps and or system components which may be performed remotely over a network e.g. without limitation a remotely located server may be performed and or located outside of the jurisdiction of the USA while the remaining method steps and or system components e.g. without limitation a locally located client of the forgoing embodiments are typically required to be located performed in the USA for practical considerations. In client server architectures a remotely located server typically generates and transmits required information to a US based client for use according to the teachings of the present invention. Depending upon the needs of the particular application it will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the teachings of the present invention which aspects of the present invention can or should be located locally and which can or should be located remotely. Thus for any claims construction of the following claim limitations that are construed under 35 USC 112 6 it is intended that the corresponding means for and or steps for carrying out the claimed function are the ones that are locally implemented within the jurisdiction of the USA while the remaining aspect s performed or located remotely outside the USA are not intended to be construed under 35 USC 112 6 . In some embodiments the methods and or system components which may be located and or performed remotely include without limitation collaborating users

It is noted that according to USA law all claims must be set forth as a coherent cooperating set of limitations that work in functional combination to achieve a useful result as a whole. Accordingly for any claim having functional limitations interpreted under 35 USC 112 6 where the embodiment in question is implemented as a client server system with a remote server located outside of the USA each such recited function is intended to mean the function of combining in a logical manner the information of that claim limitation with at least one other limitation of the claim. For example in client server systems where certain information claimed under 35 USC 112 6 is are dependent on one or more remote servers located outside the USA it is intended that each such recited function under 35 USC 112 6 is to be interpreted as the function of the local system receiving the remotely generated information required by a locally implemented claim limitation wherein the structures and or steps which enable and breath life into the expression of such functions claimed under 35 USC 112 6 are the corresponding steps and or means located within the jurisdiction of the USA that receive and deliver that information to the client e.g. without limitation client side processing and transmission networks in the USA . When this application is prosecuted or patented under a jurisdiction other than the USA then USA in the foregoing should be replaced with the pertinent country or countries or legal organization s having enforceable patent infringement jurisdiction over the present application and 35 USC 112 6 should be replaced with the closest corresponding statute in the patent laws of such pertinent country or countries or legal organization s .

All the features disclosed in this specification including any accompanying abstract and drawings may be replaced by alternative features serving the same equivalent or similar purpose unless expressly stated otherwise. Thus unless expressly stated otherwise each feature disclosed is one example only of a generic series of equivalent or similar features.

It is noted that according to USA law 35 USC 112 1 all claims must be supported by sufficient disclosure in the present patent specification and any material known to those skilled in the art need not be explicitly disclosed. However 35 USC 112 6 requires that structures corresponding to functional limitations interpreted under 35 USC 112 6 must be explicitly disclosed in the patent specification. Moreover the USPTO s Examination policy of initially treating and searching prior art under the broadest interpretation of a mean for claim limitation implies that the broadest initial search on 112 6 functional limitation would have to be conducted to support a legally valid Examination on that USPTO policy for broadest interpretation of mean for claims. Accordingly the USPTO will have discovered a multiplicity of prior art documents including disclosure of specific structures and elements which are suitable to act as corresponding structures to satisfy all functional limitations in the below claims that are interpreted under 35 USC 112 6 when such corresponding structures are not explicitly disclosed in the foregoing patent specification. Therefore for any invention element s structure s corresponding to functional claim limitation s in the below claims interpreted under 35 USC 112 6 which is are not explicitly disclosed in the foregoing patent specification yet do exist in the patent and or non patent documents found during the course of USPTO searching Applicant s incorporate all such functionally corresponding structures and related enabling material herein by reference for the purpose of providing explicit structures that implement the functional means claimed. Applicant s request s that fact finders during any claims construction proceedings and or examination of patent allowability properly identify and incorporate only the portions of each of these documents discovered during the broadest interpretation search of 35 USC 112 6 limitation which exist in at least one of the patent and or non patent documents found during the course of normal USPTO searching and or supplied to the USPTO during prosecution. Applicant s also incorporate by reference the bibliographic citation information to identify all such documents comprising functionally corresponding structures and related enabling material as listed in any PTO Form 892 or likewise any information disclosure statements IDS entered into the present patent application by the USPTO or Applicant s or any 3parties. Applicant s also reserve its right to later amend the present application to explicitly include citations to such documents and or explicitly include the functionally corresponding structures which were incorporate by reference above.

Thus for any invention element s structure s corresponding to functional claim limitation s in the below claims that are interpreted under 35 USC 112 6 which is are not explicitly disclosed in the foregoing patent specification Applicant s have explicitly prescribed which documents and material to include the otherwise missing disclosure and have prescribed exactly which portions of such patent and or non patent documents should be incorporated by such reference for the purpose of satisfying the disclosure requirements of 35 USC 112 6 . Applicant s note that all the identified documents above which are incorporated by reference to satisfy 35 USC 112 6 necessarily have a filing and or publication date prior to that of the instant application and thus are valid prior documents to incorporated by reference in the instant application.

Having fully described at least one embodiment of the present invention other equivalent or alternative methods of implementing collaboration of data according to the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Various aspects of the invention have been described above by way of illustration and the specific embodiments disclosed are not intended to limit the invention to the particular forms disclosed. The particular implementation of the collaboration of data may vary depending upon the particular context or application. By way of example and not limitation the collaboration of data described in the foregoing were principally directed to musical implementations however similar techniques may instead be applied to other forms of recorded material which implementations of the present invention are contemplated as within the scope of the present invention. The invention is thus to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the following claims. It is to be further understood that not all of the disclosed embodiments in the foregoing specification will necessarily satisfy or achieve each of the objects advantages or improvements described in the foregoing specification.

Claim elements and steps herein may have been numbered and or lettered solely as an aid in readability and understanding. Any such numbering and lettering in itself is not intended to and should not be taken to indicate the ordering of elements and or steps in the claims.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed.

The Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to limit or interpret the scope or meaning of the claims. The following claims are hereby incorporated into the detailed description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

