---

title: Method for compressing the dynamic range of measured signals
abstract: A sonar system is provided with the system having comparatively reduced power consumption, data bandwidth and data storage requirements. A sensor array of the system is configured to a sleep mode, low-resolution mode and high-resolution mode. In the sleep mode, all sonar sensors are configured in the mode and no acoustic signals are detected or processed. In the low-resolution mode, a limited number of sonar sensors are powered and acoustic signals received by the sensors are processed with reduced bandwidth and dynamic range, and then stored on a data storage device. In the high-resolution mode, the acoustic signals detected by the sonar sensors are processed with full signal bandwidth and dynamic range and then stored on the data storage device. A 10 bit mu-Law encoding scheme is used to reduce the amplitude scale of measurement or dynamic range of the digitized acoustic signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08867312&OS=08867312&RS=08867312
owner: 
number: 08867312
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140204
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

This application is a continuation in part of and claims the benefit of prior patent application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 567 306 filed on Aug. 6 2012 and entitled Sonar Sensor Array and Method of Operating Same by the common inventors Timothy B Straw Michael J. Obara and Stephen A. Caldwell.

The present invention generally relates to sonar sensor arrays and more particularly to a method of use for a sonar sensor array that has reduced power consumption bandwidth and data storage requirements.

Acoustic sonar sensors are used for many purposes and in a variety of environments. For example acoustic sonar sensors are used on surface ships and in underwater applications such as line arrays submarines and unmanned undersea vehicles. Such acoustic sensors are used to detect ships marine life marine geology and other underwater sound sources. The sonar sensors are typically fixed in either a linear arrangement or in a structure that conforms to a hull of a host vehicle.

Current acoustic and other type sonar sensors require a fixed amount of power to operate with the result of a fixed measurement data rate for a given application. In some applications the measured signal of interest is present for relatively short periods of time followed by relatively long periods of time in which there is no signal of interest. Sonar sensor arrays that are configured to continuously acquire and record sensor data consume significant amounts of electrical power and utilize large amounts of available memory.

In such sensor arrays the sensors are constantly powered since signal monitoring continuously occurs. Therefore the sensor arrays are very inefficient with the result of limited operating time for battery powered systems wherein a finite amount of electrical energy is available. Furthermore these existing sensor arrays are constricted by a data playback restriction such that only a limited amount of playback bandwidth is available for a specific application.

Accordingly it is general purpose and primary object of the present invention to provide a sonar sensor array and method of use that addresses the operational deficiencies of prior art sensor arrays.

To attain the objects described the present invention is directed to a sonar sensor array that utilizes significantly less electrical power bandwidth and data memory. The sensor array may be configured in any one of three operational modes depending on environmental conditions and programmed system parameters.

A first of the three modes is a sleep mode in which sonar sensors of the array are turned off not powered and no monitoring of acoustic signals occurs. The sleep mode is used when there are significantly long periods of time between appearances of targets. A second mode is a low resolution mode in which a limited number of sonar sensors are activated and acoustic signals are sampled and digitized using reduced bandwidth and dynamic range. Digitized acoustic signal data is stored on a data storage device. A third mode is a high resolution mode in which all sonar sensors are activated and acoustic signals are sampled and digitized with full bandwidth and full dynamic range. The digitized acoustic signal data is then stored in the data storage device.

In one embodiment the sonar sensor array cycles between the low resolution mode and the high resolution mode wherein processing of the high resolution mode does not occur unless processing of the low resolution mode determines the presence of a target of interest. In another embodiment the sonar sensor array cycles between the sleep mode and high resolution mode. In such an embodiment the sonar array system remains in the sleep mode for a predetermined amount of time and then shifts to low resolution mode. If no acoustic energy representing a target is detected the sensor reverts to sleep mode. If acoustic energy representing a target is detected the sonar sensor array immediately shifts into high resolution mode signal processing.

Thus the present invention is directed to a sonar sensor array that comprises a plurality of sonar sensors wherein each sensor can be configured to a powered mode in which the sensor detects acoustic signals or to a sleep mode in which the sensor receives no electrical power and does not detect acoustic signals.

The sonar sensor array further comprises a data acquisition device having a signal processor and a data storage device. The signal processor samples and digitizes the acoustic signals received by the sensors and the digitized signal data is stored on the storage device. The data acquisition device is configured to operate in a low resolution mode of signal processing in which acoustic signals received by the sonar sensors are processed by the signal processor at reduced bandwidth and dynamic range and then stored on the data storage device. The data acquisition device is also configured to operate in a high resolution mode in which the acoustic signals received by the sonar sensors are processed by the full signal bandwidth and dynamic range and then stored on the memory device.

The sonar array system further comprises a control circuit for configuring the sonar sensors to the sleep mode or to the powered mode. The control circuit also configures the data acquisition device to the low resolution mode or to the high resolution mode depending upon the amplitude level of the detected acoustic signals and whether the detected acoustic signals indicate the presence of a target of interest. During the low resolution mode the control circuit configures a limited number of sonar sensors to the powered mode. During the high resolution mode the control circuit configures all of the sonar sensors to the powered mode.

In another embodiment the present invention is directed to a method of processing acoustic signals with the steps of being provided acoustic signals sampling the provided signals at a sample rate to produce sampled acoustic signals digitizing the sampled signals to produce digitized acoustic signals having a first predetermined format and a first amplitude scale of measurement and compressing the digitized acoustic signals with a 10 bit mu Law encoding scheme to produce compressed signals having a second amplitude scale of measurement. The method further comprises expanding the compressed signals to produce expanded digital signals having a second predetermined format and processing the expanded digital signals to extract target information.

Referring to there is shown a sonar system in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. The system comprises a line array that has a plurality of sonar sensors . Each sensor has a corresponding electronic circuit that contains a switch that when closed allows electrical power to be applied to the sensor so as to activate the sensor. When the sensor is activated the sensor is in the powered mode. When the switch is open electrical power is removed from the sensor thereby turning off the sensor. In use the array of sonar sensors could be a line array or a planar array.

When the sensor is off or deactivated the sensor is in the sleep mode. Each electronic circuit is capable of receiving a control signal that allows the switch to configure the corresponding sensor to the sleep mode or to the powered mode. Each circuit includes an output port for providing the acoustic signals sensed by the sonar sensor . A power source provides electrical power to the circuits and other components of the array . The power source is typically a battery of fixed capacity.

The sensor array system further comprises a data acquisition device which samples digitizes and records signals received from the sensors . The acquisition device comprises a signal processor and a data storage device . The signal processor is in data signal communication with the storage device via a data bus . The signal processor samples and digitizes acoustic signals.

In one embodiment the signal processor is programmed with algorithms such as Fast Fourier Transform or Discrete Fourier Transform. The storage device may be a non volatile memory or other suitable memory device. In a preferred embodiment the data storage device includes stored data relating to known target signatures or target characteristics. In such an embodiment the signal processor compares recently processed acoustic signals with pre stored data that relates to known target signatures in order to determine if a particular target is or has been in the environment.

The data acquisition device can be configured to a sleep mode in which some circuitry of the acquisition device is disabled to reduce electrical power consumption. In the sleep mode no signal processing occurs and thus no data storage space of the storage device is used. When the data acquisition device is configured to the sleep mode all of the sonar sensors are configured to the sleep mode with the result of significantly reducing power consumption.

The data acquisition device can be configured to operate in a high resolution mode. In the high resolution mode all channels i.e. all of the sonar sensors are in the active or powered mode and the signal processor samples and digitizes acoustic signals with full signal bandwidth and full dynamic range. All data is then stored to the data storage device for later use.

The data acquisition device can be configured to a low resolution mode. In the low resolution mode the electrical power and data record bandwidth are significantly reduced. In this mode only a limited number of the sonar sensors are powered. In one embodiment of the low resolution mode the signal bandwidth is reduced by reducing the signal sample rate for example by a factor of 5 1. In another embodiment of the low resolution mode a second data rate reduction is effected by compressing the amplitude scale of the measurement for example by converting 24 bit linear to 8 bit compounded resolution. This achieves a reduction by a factor of 3 1 in data rate.

The combination of reduced bandwidth and reduced amplitude resolution has an improvement in reduced data rate by a factor of 15 1 compared to the high resolution mode. In the low resolution mode data volume is also further reduced by the utilization of only a limited number of sonar sensors in the powered mode. This is because a line array of sensors is typically designed with a physical spacing related to the upper design frequency of interest. The sonar sensor system can be configured so that only every third or every fourth or every fifth etc. one of the sonar sensors is configured to the powered mode while the remaining sonar sensors are configured to the sleep mode. The reduction in signal bandwidth by a factor of 5 1 by reducing the sampling rate in combination with using a limited number of powered sensors results in an aggregate data rate reduction by a factor of 45 1 to 75 1.

The low resolution mode may be implemented by simultaneously reducing the sampling rate and compressing the amplitude scale of measurement. The signal processor is programmable and can be configured to the sleep mode low resolution mode or high resolution mode upon receipt of a signal from a control circuit . The sleep mode allows for a periodic time window between the high resolution mode and the low resolution mode or between successive periods of high resolution modes in order to further reduce electrical power and is effective when the signal of interest is slowly varying over the time span of several cycles of the high resolution mode low resolution mode and sleep mode.

The control circuit comprises an energy detector comparison circuitry and control signal circuitry . A data bus is in data signal communication with the signal processor and the control signal circuitry . A data bus is in data signal communication with the circuits which are associated with the sonar sensors . The control signal circuitry issues digital control signals by the data bus to change the mode of the signal processor to the sleep low resolution or high resolution modes.

In a preferred embodiment the control signal circuitry is programmable and has a data storage device such as a read only memory or other type of non volatile memory for storing pre programmed sequences of operation. The signal circuitry also outputs digital control signals over the data bus to configure the sonar sensors to the sleep mode or to the powered mode. The energy detector detects acoustic signals received by powered sonar sensors and outputs a signal waveform that represents the detected acoustic signals.

In one embodiment the energy detector comprises a frequency selective band pass filter and an averaging circuit. The averaging circuit produces the slowly varying signal waveform that is proportional to the input of the band pass filter. The pass band of the bandpass filter is adjusted to a band of frequencies associated with a target of interest.

The comparator circuitry compares the amplitude level of the signal waveform to a predetermined threshold level or reference voltage. If the amplitude level of the signal waveform exceeds the threshold then a target is present and the comparison circuitry issues a signal to the control signal circuitry that indicates a target is present. In response the signal circuitry outputs a control signal over the data bus that shifts the operation of the data acquisition device to the high resolution mode in order to determine if a target signature is present and outputs control signals over the data bus to configure all sonar sensors to the powered mode.

If the amplitude level of the signal waveform is less than or equal to the predetermined threshold then a target is not present and the comparison circuitry outputs the signal . The signal indicates a target is not present. In response the control signal circuitry outputs a control signal over the data bus that maintains the data acquisition device in the low resolution mode and outputs control signals to maintain a predetermined number of sonar sensors in the sleep mode.

In an alternate embodiment the sonar sensor array includes additional feedback circuitry to automatically adjust or vary the predetermined threshold level or reference voltage to account for variations in ambient noise levels. The sensor array can include additional feedback circuitry to automatically adjust or vary the predetermined threshold level or reference voltage to account for variations in ambient noise level.

If the sensor array is to be configured in the sleep mode then the signal circuitry outputs a control signal over the data bus that configures the acquisition device to the sleep mode and outputs control signals by the data bus that configure all the sonar sensors to the sleep mode.

If the system is to be used in a slowly varying environment where a target of interest may be expected to appear the circuitry can be programmed to continuously cycle the acquisition device between the sleep mode and the low resolution mode at an appropriate rate and duty cycle. In such an embodiment the circuitry is programmed to periodically output control signals by the data bus that powers a limited number of the sensors .

The energy detector monitors for a pre programmed increase in acoustic signal levels. The low resolution mode processes the acoustic signals to determine if a target of interest is actually present. If a target is present the circuit automatically shifts the acquisition device into the high resolution mode to make a more precise measurement of the characteristics of the acoustic signals in order to determine if a known target signature is present.

In one embodiment the circuit is programmed to the acquisition device so that the acquisition device cycles between the low resolution and high resolution modes without using the sleep mode. This embodiment is suited to environments that have slowly varying targets. The result is a maximum amount of relevant information being recorded but with a minimum of data volume.

Referring to there is shown a flow chart of the operation of the sonar sensor array in accordance with the invention. As a reference point the acquisition device may be configured into the sleep mode numerous times during a period of operation e.g. 24 hours 48 hours etc. . In step all sonar sensors and the data acquisition device are in the sleep mode for a predetermined amount of time T. Next in step after the time T elapses the signal circuitry issues a control signal to power a limited number of sonar sensors and also issues a control signal to configure the acquisition device to the low resolution mode.

If the energy detector detects acoustic signals from the powered sonar sensors the low resolution mode processes these signals to determine if a target of interest is present. In step if it is determined that a target of interest is not present then the circuitry issues control signals that configure all the sonar sensors and the data acquisition device to the sleep mode. If in step it is determined that a target is present then in step the circuitry issues control signals to power all the sonar sensors and to configure the data acquisition device to the high resolution mode for a predetermined amount of time T. In the high resolution mode the acoustic signals received by the sonar sensors are processed to determine if a target signature is present and then recorded. If in step it is determined that a target signature is not present the circuitry issues control signals that configure all the sonar sensors and the data acquisition device to the sleep mode. If in step it is determined that a target signature is present then step implements a predetermined time delay T and then returns to the high resolution mode processing in step . The high resolution mode processing will continue for another time segment T. After the predetermined time segment T elapses step again determines if a target signature is still present.

If a target signature is still present then step initiates another time delay T. Thus steps and form a loop that continues until a target signature is no longer present in which case the control signal circuitry will shift the data acquisition device and the sonar sensors back to the sleep mode. The circuitry can be programmed to continuously cycle between the sleep mode and low resolution mode until the low resolution mode processing determines a target of interest is present. In such an embodiment steps and are repeated until step determines that a target is present in which case high resolution processing is implemented.

The control signal circuitry may be programmed to cycle the sonar array system between the sleep mode and the high resolution mode. This embodiment is suitable when there are targets of interest that are infrequent and slow moving. In this embodiment the high resolution mode is activated in an intermittent manner wherein data is recorded in short segments separated by time periods in which there is no data recording. This embodiment is useful in environments where there is a high signal to noise ratio. In such an embodiment the circuitry maintains the sonar array system in the sleep mode for a predetermined amount of time and then is configured to the high resolution mode for a predetermined amount of time.

If high resolution mode processing detects a target signature then the system will enter the loop defined by steps and . If the high resolution processing does not detect a target signature the circuitry configures the sonar sensors and the data acquisition device to the sleep mode. The control signal circuitry will continue this pattern in accordance with a stored program of operation.

The present invention is significantly more efficient than prior art sonar array systems. depicts an example of the differences in operation between a prior art legacy system and the sonar sensor array for a twenty four hour period. In the example the circuitry cycles the modes of operation between the low resolution and high resolution modes. In the legacy system the system is operating constantly for twenty four hours all channels i.e. all sonar sensors are constantly powered the amplitude scale of measurement is always 24 bits the bandwidth is constantly 500 Hz the sample rate is constantly 1250 SPS samples second the power consumption is 100 and the data rate is 40 KB SEC kilobytes per second . At the end of the operational period the legacy system records 3398 MB of data. This inefficient performance is contrasted with the very efficient operation of the sonar sensor array . In this example the sonar sensor array is cycled between the low resolution mode and the high resolution mode. As apparent by the data shown in the figure the low resolution mode detects a suspected target ten times per day and the high resolution mode is activated only for a ten second period for each target detected during the low resolution mode.

In this example the sonar sensor array is configured such that the sleep mode is not used and the control signal circuitry cycles the operation between the low resolution mode and high resolution mode depending upon how many times the low resolution mode detects a suspected target. As shown in the low resolution mode operates over a twenty four hour period as does the legacy system but the low resolution mode operates at periodic intervals wherein the duration of each period of low resolution processing is 100 seconds.

The low resolution mode is implemented when the energy detector detects acoustic signals from the powered sonar sensors . A reduced number of the sonar sensors are utilized in the low resolution mode which yields a 5 1 reduction in active channels. The amplitude scale of measurement is 8 bits the bandwidth is 100 Hz and the sample rate is 250 SPS samples per second . The power consumption in this mode is only ten percent of the power consumption of the prior art legacy system. The resulting data rate is 0.73 KB SEC and the amount of data actually recorded is 61.7 MB. If the low resolution mode determines there is a target then the control circuit shifts the signal processing function to the high resolution mode.

In the high resolution mode all of the sonar sensors are powered all channels are active the amplitude scale of measurement is 24 bits the sample rate is 1250 SPS samples second and the data rate is 40 KB SEC. Although these operational characteristics are the same as the prior art legacy system the high resolution mode is implemented for periods of ten seconds for each target detected by low resolution mode processing. In this example ten targets are detected in a twenty four hour period. This means high resolution mode processing occurs for a total of 100 seconds in a twenty four hour period. During each ten second period in which high resolution mode processing is implemented the power consumption is 100 and the data rate is 40 KB SEC. However the total amount of data collected in the high resolution mode is 3.9 MB. As a result of cycling between the low resolution and high resolution modes only 65.6 MB of data is recorded and the total power consumption over a twenty four hour period is 10.1 of the total power consumed by the legacy system over a twenty four hour period.

In an alternate embodiment the sonar sensor array performs an initial spectral analysis of the acoustic signals detected by the sonar sensors during low resolution mode processing in order to confirm that high resolution mode processing is warranted. In such an embodiment the system includes a spectrum analysis device that processes the acoustic signals received by the sonar sensors and outputs a signal for input into the control circuit wherein the signal indicates whether high resolution mode signal processing is warranted.

The present invention provides many advantages and benefits. One advantage is a reduction in overall power consumption of the sonar sensor array thereby extending the lifetime of batteries. Another advantage is the significant reduction of the aggregate data bandwidth thereby resulting in relaxed data storage requirements and a decreased load on data processors or transmitters. Data having a low probability of containing signals of interest is either not recorded or is recorded at a reduced data rate thereby simplifying future data playback and processing tasks. As a result of the reduced amount of acquired data lower bandwidth data exfiltration techniques become viable.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a preferred signal compression scheme is now presented which may be utilized by the sonar sensor array as well as other acoustic signal detection and processing systems. This signal compression scheme compresses the dynamic range of acoustic signals digitized by a high performance analog to digital converter e.g. 24 bits into 10 bits of amplitude without a loss of useful information.

Underwater acoustic signals can cover a wide dynamic range depending on local conditions such as ambient noise merchant shipping and the presence of active sonar. The instantaneous dynamic range requirement of underwater acoustic signals is typically much less than the total possible range of signal and noise levels. In particular conditions of very large signals are accompanied by large background noise levels and likewise very small signal levels are not detectable in the presence of large background noise levels but are detectable with low ambient noise levels. In addition the processing and display limits associated with beamformed sonar arrays characteristically exhibit an additional limit on the useable instantaneous dynamic range in underwater acoustic systems. Specifically large interfering signals in one direction will appear in the side lobes for beams pointing in other directions. Typical side lobes may only be 30 dB down indicating a processing and display dynamic range of 30 dB. Some currently used sonar towed arrays utilizes 8 bit mu Law data compression which has at best approximately 40 dB of instantaneous dynamic range.

Conventional compression of amplitude quantized data is typically accomplished with 8 bit mu Law encoding. Ideal 8 bit mu Law encoding typically provides about 78 dB of total dynamic range based on a full scale of 8031 2 counts and about 40 dB of instantaneous dynamic range. Table 1 shows all 128 possible amplitude values for 8 bit mu Law coding after expansion.

An example of the 8 bit mu Law encoding signal to noise ratio is shown in . This 8 bit mu Law encoding technique converts 13 binary amplitude bits into 8 bits 1 sign bit 3 exponent bits and 4 amplitude bits with logarithmically scaled amplitude compression. Equations 1 and 2 show the expressions for determining the 3 bit chord exponent and 4 bit mantissa bits from a linear signal where ceil represents rounding up to the nearest integer value and log is the base 2 logarithm function. The reconstruction formula for 8 bit mu Law is shown as Equation 3 .

As described the 8 bit mu Law encoding scheme is similar to a linear conversion of 13 bits with 78 dB of dynamic range which is suitable for passive sonar applications. However the 8 bit mu Law encoding scheme does not necessarily provide sufficient dynamic range to cover a broader range of underwater acoustics such as in active sonar applications.

It has been found that compressing the dynamic range of acoustic signals digitized by a high performance analog to digital converter e.g. 24 bits with a 10 bit mu Law encoding scheme can provide sufficient dynamic range to cover a broader range of underwater acoustic signals without the loss of useful information. The flow chart shown in illustrates the steps implemented in this 10 bit mu Law encoding scheme. The digitized acoustic signals are provided by an analog to digital converter see which is part of the signal processor . The digitized acoustic signals are in a 24 bit signed linear format and thus have 24 sign and amplitude bits. The 10 bit mu Law encoding scheme codes the 24 sign and amplitude bits into 10 bits wherein the 10or most significant bit is the sign bit bits are the chord or exponent and bits are the mantissa or amplitude resulting in a theoretical 132 dB of useable dynamic range.

Equations 4 and 5 show the expressions for determining the 4 chord or exponent bits and the 5 mantissa or amplitude bits from a linear signal based on a full scale of 4 128 867 2 counts. The reconstruction formula for 10 bit mu Law is shown as Equation 6 .

The 10 bit mu Law encoding scheme increases the instantaneous dynamic range of the 8 bit mu Law encoder by 6 dB due to an additional amplitude bit and increases the overall dynamic range by another 48 dB due to the additional exponent bit. Table 2 shows all 512 possible amplitude values for 10 bit mu Law coding after expansion.

Referring to detected acoustic signals are provided by the sonar array see . The analog to digital converter ADC DC offset filter and encoder are part of the signal processor . The analog to digital converter converts the detected acoustic signals into a 24 bit digital data stream indicated by reference number . The digital data stream is then fed into the filter which filters out any DC offset voltages that are present in the 24 bit digital data stream. The filtered 24 bit digital data stream indicated by reference number is then fed to the encoder wherein the amplitude scale of measurement of the 24 bit digital data stream is compressed using a 10 bit mu Law encoding scheme. Thus the encoder converts 24 bit linear to 10 bit mu Law in accordance with the steps shown in .

The encoder outputs a 10 bit digital data stream indicated by reference number . The 10 bit digital data stream is then stored in the data storage device by the data bus see wherein the data stream is subsequently retrieved for post processing by signal expander and signal processor . The signal expander expands the compressed 10 bit digital data stream into an expanded digital data stream having a predetermined signal format. The predetermined signal format is determined by the type of signal processing components that are being utilized and the needs of the users or operators.

Examples of such signal formats are 24 bit linear 16 bit IEEE floating point short and 32 bit IEEE floating point long. The expanded digital data stream is then inputted into the signal processor which processes the expanded digital data stream to extract information about the target and outputs processed signals which contain target information.

A numerical simulation and analysis of the 10 bit mu Law encoding scheme was performed in order to illustrate in a qualitative manner the significant advantages and characteristics of the 10 bit mu Law compounding scheme in comparison to the industry standard 8 bit mu Law compounding scheme and to a 20 bit linear encoding scheme.

A mathematical model was created to first generate an input signal with a variable amplitude sine wave added to a constant spectral noise floor of 140 dB Hz which corresponds to an RMS noise floor of 113 dB after correcting for the 500 Hz noise bandwidth. This analysis shows an RMS dynamic range of 113 dB. The simulation was performed on full linear encoding 8 bit mu Law encoding and on 10 bit mu Law encoding. The ensuing simulations actually use 20 bit linear encoding rather than 24 bit linear encoding. The reason for this is that although commercially available high performance analog to digital converters provide 24 bits of amplitude resolution the four lower order bits i.e. 21 24 bits represent added noise in the amplitude quantization process. The best performing analog to digital converters suitable for sonar applications exhibit approximately 20 bits of true amplitude quantization. Therefore the ensuing simulations use 20 bit linear encoding. The results are shown in which include the time domain and frequency domain analysis of a pure 83.7 Hz sine wave with 120 dB additive noise for the three encoding schemes 20 bit linear encoding the industry standard 8 bit mu Law encoding scheme after reconstruction and the 10 bit mu Law encoding after reconstruction. The time axis is a uniform 1000 samples per second.

The data of E and F corresponds to a 30 dB sine wave relative to full scale. The data of H and I corresponds to a 60 dB sine wave relative to full scale. The data of K and L corresponds to a 90 dB sine wave relative to full scale. In each case the input signal also includes the broadband random noise with a root mean square RMS level of 120 dB relative to full scale. A Fourier analysis of ten seconds of signal was analyzed using 1000 point fast Fourier transforms FFTs with a Kaiser window beta 14 with 120 dB first side lobe and no overlap. As shown by E H and K the 10 bit mu Law encoding tracks the original signal even at a 90 dB input signal. D G and J compare the 20 bit linear signal to the industry standard 8 bit mu Law signal. Significant deviation occurs at an input signal of 60 dB see and the signal is absent at the 90 dB input signal level see . F I and L show how the quantization noise levels for the three coding types scale with signal level.

Referring to D G and J the 20 bit linear signal is the trace with diamonds and the 8 bit mu Law version is the trace with squares. In the traces overlap. In there are periods in which both the 20 bit linear and the 8 bit mu Law signals are distinguishable. In the trace for the 8 bit mu Law is flat while the trace for the 20 bit linear signal is generally sinusoidal. In E H and K the 20 bit linear signal is represented by the trace having the diamonds and the 10 bit mu Law encoded signal is represented by the trace having the circles. The traces of the 20 bit signal and the 10 bit mu Law encoded signal are virtually indistinguishable because the 10 bit mu Law encoded signal virtually matches the trace of the 20 bit linear signal.

The signal traces shown in F I and L are shown in B C and D respectively with expansion of the portion of the frequency axis from 0.0 Hz to 200 Hz. The 20 bit linear signal is the lowermost trace and is indicated by reference number . The 8 bit mu Law trace is indicated by reference number and the 10 bit mu Law trace is indicated by reference number . The sine wave signal levels relative to full scale used for generating these plots were 0 dB in 30 dB in 60 dB in and 90 dB in .

A simulation was performed of signal to noise ratio SNR as a function of signal level for the 8 bit mu Law encoding 10 bit mu Law encoding and 20 bit linear encoding. The simulation includes the following parameters 

The curves in show the total noise power that is formed by summing the spectral power bins from 10 to 130 Hz and 150 to 1000 Hz. This process adds the quantization noise added input noise plus the harmonics. In examining the noise from the 20 bit linear encoding indicated by reference number the noise peaks at 60 dB at the right side of the plot and drops linearly with decreasing input signal level. This characteristic is due to the addition of scaled random noise at 60 dB below the fundamental sine wave at 140 Hz. At an input signal level of about 40 dB the 20 bit linear noise plateaus at a level of about 11 dB. The curve for the 8 bit mu Law encoder noise is indicated by reference number . The 8 bit mu Law encoder noise plateaus at about 4 dB. The curve for the 10 bit mu Law encoder noise is indicated by reference number . The 10 bit mu Law noise plateaus at about 11 dB. These noise plateaus are primarily due to harmonic related tonals of the input sine wave.

The curves in show the ratio of signal level from to noise plus distortion level from . Above approximately 40 dB input the 10 bit mu Law encoder has 6 dB more dynamic range than the 8 bit mu Law version. In the curve corresponding to 20 bit linear encoding is indicated by reference number the curve corresponding to 8 bit mu Law encoding is indicated by reference number and the curve corresponding to the 10 bit mu Law encoding is indicated by reference number . The advantages of 10 bit mu Law encoding are evident in the 40 dB of additional maximum signal capability the 6 dB of additional SNR over the 8 bit conversion and relatively better performance than the 20 bit linear below approximately a 30 dB signal level. In order to take full advantage of the dynamic range capability of 10 bit mu Law encoding it is preferable that a relatively lower noise preamplifier and additional levels of adjustable gain prior to the analog to digital converter are utilized.

The operational amplifiers used for gain and for providing balanced input into the analog to digital converter typically have an input offset voltage between approximately 1 mV and 5 mV.

Although this offset voltage does not cause problems for linear analog to digital conversion operation the voltage can invalidate the mu Law conversion algorithm by adding a bias that is larger than small value signal inputs into the analog to digital converter. shows a histogram of DC offset voltage levels for 20 channels in a test harness. Offset voltages varied from 5.2 to 6.6 millivolts mV with a mean offset voltage level of 0.54 mV. By comparison for the case where the analog to digital converter full scale is 2 volts bit levels in the 000 chord correspond to approximately 1 microvolt step size. Therefore in order to resolve this issue a single digital high pass filter is used to remove the DC offset voltages. It has been found that a single pole infinite impulse response IIR filter of 1 Hz 3 Hz is suitable for removing the DC offset voltages. In filter is configured as a digital high pass filter.

Measurements were made on a prototype implementation of a sonar channel built according to the invention and Fourier analysis was performed on these measurements to determine the frequency domain characteristics of residual system noise. shows the predicted noise level for this implementation using known hydrophone and electronic parameters reference T. B. Straw Noise Prediction for Hydrophone Preamplifier Systems NUWC NPT Technical Report 10 369 2 Jun. 1993 . Signals were sampled and quantized using a 24 bit analog to digital converter and the results were processed using Fourier techniques resulting in the noise curve verses frequency for linear encoding and using the 10 bit mu law encoding technique described herein demonstrating an equivalent noise floor performance. The deviation from prediction below 30 Hz is due to an analog high pass filter prior to the analog to digital converter. If this high pass filter had been compensated for both the linear noise and mu Law noise would closely match the predicted noise .

For completeness includes a plot a typical minimum ambient acoustic noise level in the ocean of Sea State Zero Shipping Level One and Low Frequency Ocean Turbulence. reference W. Sadowski and R. Katz Ambient Noise Standards for Acoustic Modeling and Analysis NUWC Technical Document 7265 3 Aug. 1984 .

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

