---

title: Sharing mobile device content in a many-to-one manner
abstract: Systems and methods for sharing information between media devices of members of user groups in a many-to-one manner are presented herein. User groups may include group manager type users as managers of the user groups and group member type users as members of the user groups. Information may be shared between group members and group managers of associated user groups. The group managers receive aggregate information comprising information captured from the media devices of the members of the associated user group for display on the media devices used by the group managers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09237410&OS=09237410&RS=09237410
owner: MEDIASPARK INCORPORATED
number: 09237410
owner_city: Sydney
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20140812
---
This disclosure relates to systems and methods for communicating information between media devices and more specifically communicating information such that information is shared in a many to one manner within user groups comprising multiple media devices.

In today s technological age consumers are able to store all types of information on their media devices e.g. computing platforms such as PDAs cellular telephones smart phones gaming consoles laptops tablets desktop computers PCs etc. . . . . Some users may share information which is stored and or displayed on their media devices with other users of media devices. Communication channels used for sharing information include wired and or wireless communications. Wireless communications may be facilitated over a network such as the Internet cellular networks near field communication Bluetooth and or other wireless communication channels. For example digital information may be shared via short message services e.g. text and or picture messages electronic mail e.g. email and or by other techniques. Wired communications may be facilitated by universal serial bus USB enabled wired communications and or other considerations.

One aspect of the disclosure relates to a system for processing and or organizing information communicated between media devices also referred to as user devices . In particular one or more aspects of the disclosure describe techniques that facilitate sharing information in a many to one manner. For example users associated with user devices may be organized into user groups. Individual ones of the user groups may include a group manager associated with a user device and multiple group members that are individually associated with user devices. A group manager of a given user group may obtain store organize and or view information that is sent retrieved captured collected and or otherwise obtained from the user devices associated with the group members.

One or more techniques describe herein provide a solution to problems associated with known techniques for sharing information in a many to one manner. As an illustrative example using known email text messaging and or other techniques an employer wishing to receive information from many employees must 1 obtain contact information for each of the employees 2 communicate to the employees that they wish to collect information 3 wait for responses from the employees and 4 once the responses are received diligently maintain the responses in an organized manner. Organization may be quite complex since email text messaging and other techniques may include a general inbox which merely shows the temporal order in which information is received. For example the employees may send responses that include extraneous information such that the receiving employer must then labor through each individual response to obtain only the desired information. Thus organization through known techniques may be time consuming and undesirable in many situations. These and additional problems may be alleviated through employment of one or more implementations of the system presented herein.

In accordance with one or more implementations of the system configured for processing and organizing information communicated between media devices a host server of the system may comprise one or more processors configured to execute one or more computer program components. The computer program components may comprise one or more of a grouping component a settings component an implementation component and or other components.

The grouping component may be configured to associate the users of the system with individual user groups. The associations may include associating group manager type users as managers of the individual user groups. The associations may include associating group member type users as members of the individual user groups. As an illustrative example the user groups may include a first group and or a second group. The first group may include a first group manager a first member a second member and or other members associated therewith.

The settings component may be configured to obtain information settings selected by group managers. The information settings may correspond to information that is to be obtained from user devices of members of a user group and communicated to the user device of the associated group manager. The information settings may be obtained from the user devices associated with the group managers. The group managers may select the information settings through entry and or selection at the associated user device.

Information settings may correspond to one or more of a type of information which is shared the size of information data files which are shared the time date at which information is shared and or other information. Types of information may include one or more of user device information images text user identification information and or other considerations. As an illustrative example the settings component may be configured to receive first information settings for the first group. The first information setting may be based on one or more selections by the first group manager of the first group.

The implementation component may be configured to implement the obtained information settings for the individual groups. Implementing the information settings may include effectuating a capture of information at the user devices associated with the members of a group. The implementation component may receive the captured information. The implementation component may be configured such that implementing the obtained information settings comprises communicating information to the user devices associated with the group managers. The information which is communicated to the group managers may include all or a subset of the captured information and or other information. For example the implementation component may be configured to receive a first information set. The first information set may include information captured at a first user device associated with the first member and or information captured at a second user device associated with the second member. The first information set may include information that is captured in accordance with the first information settings and or may include other information. The implementation component may be configured to transmit the first information set or a subset of the first information set to a third user device associated with the first group manager.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a system for communicating information between user devices such as between a user device associated with a group manager and user devices associated with group members. The user devices associated with group managers may include one or more processors configured to execute computer program components. The computer program components executed by the user devices of the group managers may comprise one or more of an input component a transmission component a reception component a display component and or other components.

The input component may be configured to obtain information settings input by a group manager associated with a given user device. The information settings may be obtained at least in part on entry and or selection of settings by the associated group manager. The information settings may correspond to information which is to be received by the group manager from user devices of the members of a user group. The input component may be configured to communicate the information settings input by the group managers to the server. For example the input component may obtain the first information settings from the first group manager of the first group by virtue of entry and or selection by the first group manager at the third user device.

The transmission component may be configured to effectuate transmission of a message to the user devices associated with the members of an individual user group either directly or indirectly. The message may direct the members to capture and or send information to the group manager e.g. to the user device associated with the group manager . For example the transmission component may be configured to effectuate transmission either directly or indirectly to the first user device the second user device and or other user devices of a first message directing the first member second member and or other members to capture and or send information to the first group manager.

The reception component may be configured to receive information corresponding to information captured at the user devices of the members of a user group. In some implementations the information may be received in response to the members positive response to the message associated with the transmission component. In some implementations the information may be received automatically e.g. with or without direct member response . The information received may be in accordance to the information settings and or may include other information. The information which is received may be the information that is captured at the user device of the members a subset of the information that is captured at the user devices of the members and or other information. For example the reception component may be configured to receive the first information set. The first information set may include information captured at the first user device information captured at the second user device and or other information. The received first information set may include information in accordance with the first information settings and or other information.

The display component may be configured to display the information received by the reception component on the user device. For example the display component may be configured to display the first information set received by the reception component on the third user device associated with the first group manager.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a system for communicating information between user devices such as between user devices of a group member and a user device of a group manager. The user devices associated with the group members may include one or more processors configured to execute computer program components. The computer program components may comprise one or more of a messaging component a capture component and or other components.

The messaging component may be configured to receive messages which are sent from user devices of group managers. The message may be messages directing the group members to capture and or send information to the group manager of the user group associated therewith as presented herein. The messages may be received directly from the user devices of the group managers e.g. SMS message and or other direct communications indirectly from the user devices of the group managers e.g. routed through the server and or via other indirect communications and or other considerations. For example the messaging component executing on the first user device associated with the first user may receive the first message associated with the first group manager of the first group. The first message may direct the first member to capture and or send information at the first user device to the third user device.

The capture component may be configured to responsive to the member positively responding to the message received by the messaging component capture information from the user device of the member. The captured information may correspond to the selections of the information settings by the group manager either exclusively or non exclusively. The capture component may be configured to responsive to capturing the information send the information to the server. For example responsive to the first member and or the second member positively responding to the first message the capture component may be configured to capture information from the first user device associated with the first member. Responsive to capturing the information the capture component may be configured to effectuate communication of the captured information to the server. The information captured at the first user device may comprise the first information set a subset of the first information set and or may comprise other information. The information captured at the second user device may comprise the first information set a subset of the first information set and or may comprise other information.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a method for processing information communicated between user devices. The method may comprise the steps of associating users with user groups obtaining information settings for the individual user groups receiving information captured on user devices of members of the user group transmitting information to user devices of managers of the user group and or other operations.

The associations of users with user groups may include associating group manager type users as managers of the individual user groups and group members type users as members of the individual user groups.

Information settings for individual user groups may be related to the information that is to be shared between users in the group. The information settings for the individual groups may correspond to entry and or selections by the group managers at their associated user devices.

Information which is captured on user devices of a member may be received. The received information or a subset of the received information may thereafter be transmitted to a user device of the group managers associated with the user group. Information which is received may be exclusive or non exclusive to the information settings. The information which is transmitted may be exclusive to the information settings based on the implementation of the information settings.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a method for communicating information between a user device of a group manager and user devices of members of a user group managed by the group manager. The method may comprise the steps of obtaining information setting input by the group manager transmitting a message to the group members receiving information including information captured at the user devices of the group members displaying the received information and or other operations.

Obtaining the information settings from the group manager may include the group manager inputting selections of information settings on their user device.

The message transmitted to the group members may direct the members to capture and or send information to the group manager.

Responsive to the members positively responding to the message e.g. capturing the information at the respective user device the user devices of the group managers may receive e.g. directly or indirectly the captured information and or a subset of the captured information from the members of the user group. The information received may be in accordance to the information settings and or may include other information.

The information received by the user device of the group manager may be displayed for viewing by the group manager.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a method for communicating information between a user device associate with a group member and a user device associated with a group manager of a user group. The method may include the steps of receiving messages from the group managers directly or indirectly capturing information on the user device sending the captured information to a remote or local server and or other operations.

These and other features and characteristics of the present technology as well as the methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structure and the combination of parts and economies of manufacture will become more apparent upon consideration of the following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings all of which form a part of this specification wherein like reference numerals designate corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood however that the drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a definition of the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and in the claims the singular form of a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

The system herein allows users of media devices to share and or communicate information to other user of user devices . A collection of users who share information may be referred to as a user group . For example a first user group a second user group and or other user groups may comprise collections of users who share information. Herein the terms share may refer to any technique for communicating and or transmitting information between network enabled devices either directly or indirectly. For example information may be shared directly between user devices and or indirectly through communications routed to and from an intermediate user device one or more servers cloud computing networks and or other considerations.

In some implementations the user groups may include group manager type users as managers of individual user groups and group member type users as members of individual user groups . In some implementations individual user groups may comprise at least one group manager and at least one group member . In some implementations individual user groups may comprise one group manager and two or more group members . User groups may be assigned group numbers group names and or other identification information which can be used for correlating the user groups with the particular group managers and or group members associated with an individual user group .

Many to one sharing may comprise multiple members of the user groups sharing information from user devices of the members to user devices of the group managers either directly or indirectly. Group managers may receive information from some or all members of the user groups either directly or indirectly. Group managers may receive information from members in an aggregate manner which may allow the managers to track monitor organize and or review the aggregate information communicated from the members see e.g. .

In some implementations sharing may be also be accomplished via offline and or direct communication techniques. For example offline communications may include near field communications NFC Bluetooth wired connection and or other techniques which may not require communication over an internet network. Sharing of data offline may be used to provide additional security for users that prefer not to have information pass through a server hosted over a network such as the Internet.

In some implementations the system may include an application programming interface API to allow third party developers to integrate the features and or components of the system into other software and or applications.

The information which is shared within the user groups may be subject to one or more information settings. The information settings may restrict limit and or otherwise define the information which the managers receive e.g. directly or indirectly from the members . Information settings may be customized and or selected by the group managers . Information which is shared may include information which corresponds exclusively to the information settings selected by the group managers e.g. exclusive information that is dependent on the information settings . Information which is shared may be information which is non exclusive information and includes all or a substantial amount of the information which is capable of being shared within the system e.g. non exclusive information that is independent of the information settings . The information which is received by and displayed on the user devices of the group managers may be different than the information which is captured at the user devices of the group members e.g. non exclusive information may be captured and then filtered wherein only the filtered information is received and viewable by the managers .

The system herein may facilitate selections of information settings by the group manager by effectuating presentation of a user interface on the user devices associated with the group managers . The user interface may be configured to receive entry and or selection by the group managers for making such selections e.g. through conventional input techniques such as a keyboard touchscreen and or other technique . The user interface may be in the form of an application program which can be downloaded and or loaded onto the user devices of the group managers . The user interface may be presented in other forms e.g. a webpage accessible via a network such as the Internet and or other considerations .

Information settings may correspond to manager selections of one or more of the type of information which is to be captured at the user devices of the members and or shared the size of information data files which are captured and or shared the time date at which information may be captured and or shared and or other information. Types of information may include one or more of user device information images text user identification information and or other information.

User device information may include information associated with the user devices of the members of the user groups. User device information may include one or more of global positioning system GPS coordinates of the user device or other geo location coordinates a travel history of the user device operating system information user device manufacturer information user device model information user device IP address user device MAC address user device build files installed applications apps on the user devices website bookmarks website favorites browsing history and or other information.

GPS coordinates e.g. other geo location coordinates relating to user devices may be considered in a variety of ways. GPS coordinates may include the real time coordinates of the user devices associated with the members of the user groups . Real time coordinates may be the coordinates of the user device captured at the time when information is shared between the group members and the group managers directly or indirectly . GPS coordinates may include coordinates which are saved and or stored on the user devices of the group members at some point in time prior to the group members sharing the information with the group managers . GPS coordinates may be actively saved and or stored by the members associated with the user devices . GPS coordinates may be automatically stored and or saved by the user devices . GPS coordinates may be obtained by other technique. GPS coordinates may be generated by the user devices automatically e.g. by an applicant program configured to communicate with a GPS satellite and or other considerations by user input and or by other technique. GPS coordinates and or other geo location coordinates may be considered in other ways.

Sharing real time GPS coordinates and or other geo location coordinates may be accomplished by capturing the coordinates from the user devices of the members at the instance the members share the information. Coordinates may be captured from applications already present and enabled on the user devices of the members which are capable of determining such coordinates through one or more GPS engaged features provided by the system and or by other considerations.

Operating system information may include operating system information for the user devices associated with the members of the user groups . Operating system information may include operating system developer name type code name version and or other information associated with the operating system of the user devices of the members of the user groups . For example operating system information may include information such as Android 4.2.2 Jelly Bean iOS Windows and or other information. Operating system information may be stored within local memory of the user devices such that operating system information may be shared without active participation of the group members selecting retrieving locating and or otherwise determining such operating system information from their respective device.

Device manufacturer e.g. make and model information may refer to information corresponding to the user devices of the members of the user groups . Manufacturer and model information may include conventional manufacturer and make information associated with user devices as described herein. For example device manufacturer and model information may include information such as MOTOROLA Droid RAZR APPLE iPHONE 4s and or other information. Device manufacturer and or model information may be information which is stored within local memory of the user devices such that manufacturer and or model information may be shared without active participation of the group members selecting retrieving locating and or determining such information from their respective user device.

Device internet protocol IP address may refer to a numerical label assigned to the user devices participating in network communication that uses the internet protocol for communication. IP address may refer to the commonly known definition. IP address may be information which is stored within local memory of the user devices such that the IP address may be shared without active participation of the group members selecting retrieving locating and or determining such information from their respective user device.

Devices media access control MAC address may refer to a unique identifier assigned to the user devices . MAC addresses may refer to the commonly known definition. MAC address may be information which is stored within local memory of the user devices such that the MAC address may be shared without active participation of the group members selecting retrieving locating and or otherwise determining such information from their respective user device.

Device build files may refer to source code files which are run and or executed by the user devices . Device build files may refer to the commonly known definition thereof. Device build files may be information which is stored in local memory of the user devices such that the build files may be shared without active participation of the group members selecting retrieving locating and or otherwise determining such information from their respective user device.

Sharing images between the user devices may refer to images which are taken by user devices having image capturing capabilities. Images may refer to images which are stored or have been stored by the user devices . Images may be stored in local and or remote memory storage e.g. cloud storage associated with the user device . Images may refer to screenshots which are captured at the user devices of the members in real time or near real time during the time when information is shared e.g. automatically taken or by virtue of user input . Images may refer to screenshots which are stored within local and or remote memory associated with the user devices . Images may include metadata associated therewith. In some implementations the images and metadata associated therewith may be shared concurrently or separately. Images may refer to images which can be annotated edited and or modified. Images may refer to images which cannot be annotated edited and or modified.

Sharing text between user devices may refer to text which is typed and or written using suitable device interfaces of the user devices that are capable of receiving user input for forming alphanumerical or other textual strings. Text may refer to any text world phrase sentence and or paragraph a member may want to communicate and or share with a group manager . Text may be shared by conventional techniques such as SMS electronic mail and or other techniques internal and or external to the system e.g. direct and or indirect communications .

Sharing user identification information between user devices may include sharing information and correlating the shared information with the recipient and or sender of the information. User identification information may comprise one or more of a user identification number a tag a key a code a name a nickname a username and or other considerations. User identification information may be information which is associated with an individual member of a given user group . User identification information may be information which is assigned to an individual member by the system by an associated group manager and or other techniques. User identification information may be information which is inherent to the user device of a given member e.g. the device IP address .

A username may be a name which is associated with an individual member of a given user group . A username may be a name which is assigned to the individual member by the system by an associated group manager by other members and or other techniques. User identification information may aid the group managers in organizing the aggregate information which is received from the multiple group members . The system may facilitate the presentation of user identification information of the members on the user devices of the group managers along with the shared information when viewing aggregated shared information for organizational purposes and or other purposes.

In some implementations the group members may share information captured from barcodes quick response QR codes and or other considerations. For example the system may be configured such that user devices of the group members are configured with devices and or components configured for reading barcodes QR codes and or other information embedded entity. This may include for example a barcode reader a QR code reader a scanner and or other suitable component coupled to or incorporated with the user devices . Barcode reading QR code reading and or other reading canning may be facilitated through employment of a camera and or suitable processing techniques of the user devices and or other considerations.

In sharing information between group members and group managers may comprise relaying and or communicating information through a host server via a network such as the Internet. The host server may receive information and or data sent from the members and or managers . The server may disseminate the information to the appropriate group managers and or members within corresponding user groups .

The host server may include one or more processors configured to execute one or more computer components for facilitating the sharing of information between group members group managers and or users and or components of the system . The computer program components may include one or more of a grouping component settings component implementation component and or other components. The server may be configured to communicate with one or more user devices according to client server architecture. The users associated with the user devices may access server via the user devices .

User devices may include one or more processors configured to execute one or more computer components to facilitate communication with one or more user devices to communicate with one or more remote or local servers such as server to present views of user interfaces configured to receive user entry and or selection to display information and or to perform more or less operations. The computer program components executed by the user devices associated with the group managers may include one or more of an input component a transmission component a reception component a display component and or other components. The computer program components executed by the user devices associated with the group members may include one or more of a messaging component a capture component and or other components.

Referring now to the server of and the grouping component may be configured to provide associations of the users of the system with one or more user groups . Such associations may include for example associating group manager type users as managers of the individual user groups and group members type users as members of the individual user groups . For example the user groups may include the first group . The first group may have a first member associated with a first user device a second member associated a second user device and or other members associated with other user devices . The first group may have a first group manager associated with a third user device .

Referring back to in some implementations group managers may access the server and create and or access an account and or profile correlating the group managers to a user group . Through the creation of an account and or profile within the server the group managers may thereafter be designated as managers of the created individual user groups . Individual user groups may be assigned and or designated group identification information e.g. group numbers group names and or other considerations prior to and or concurrently with the creation of the user group . When group managers create a group group identification information may be generated for the groups automatically by system by the group managers and or by other considerations. Group identification information may be stored in a database on the server e.g. via storage .

As an illustrative example a group manager associated with a user group may create a group and name the group as desired. A group manager may be a teacher and or other user. The group manager may name a group First Period English Class Group and or may provide other group identification information during the creation of the group. In this example without implying any limitations the members of the group may be students of the teacher.

The grouping component may be configured to associate prospective group members with the individual groups created by the group managers through a variety of techniques. Prospective group members may access the server through an application program which can be downloaded and or loaded onto the user devices associated with the members by accessing a web page and or web browser through a network e.g. the Internet and or access the server by other techniques. Members may search within the server and or select a group they wish to join using the group identification information associated with the group. For example a manager who is creating a group may disseminate the group identification information to individuals who are to become members of the group. However prospective group members may associate with individual groups by other techniques and or considerations.

As an illustrative example following the student teacher example described above a teacher e.g. group manager may create a group and provide the students e.g. members the group identification information for the group e.g. group name number and or other considerations . The students may then search for and or select the group using the group identification information within a databases stored by server . Responsive to the students selecting the appropriate group the students may thereafter be associated with the group as members of the group e.g. by the grouping component . Sharing of information between managers and members may then proceed.

In some implementations group managers may confirm that prospective members can become members of the groups associated with the group managers for security and or other purposes. For example when prospective members search for and or select an individual user group the managers associated with the user group may be prompted e.g. by instant message email and or other technique to confirm that the prospective member can be associated as a member of the group . Group managers may then confirm or deny an association of the prospective member with the group .

In some implementations a challenge response authentication process may be prompted when a prospective member selects a particular group. For example the challenge response authentication may include conventional authentication processes such as password entry security question answer and or other considerations.

At some point in time prior to concurrently with or after the group members being associated with the user groups the group members may be assigned and or designated user identification information e.g. a username number and or other considerations so that information shared with the associated group manager can be correlated appropriately. The user devices of the group managers may be configured to use the user identification information in the organization of information that is received by the group managers . User identification information may be assigned and or generated for the associated members automatically by the grouping component by a group manager by the members themselves and or by other techniques. A username may be an alphanumeric character string and or more than one character string. A user identification number may be a numerical string and or more than one numerical string.

The settings component may be configured to obtain information settings for the individual groups entered and or selected by the group managers associated therewith. The manner in which the settings component obtains the information settings from the group managers may include receiving the information settings from the user devices of the group managers and or other considerations. The group managers may enter and or select the information settings on their respective user devices . The settings component may thereafter obtain the information settings. Implementations describing a manner in which the group managers enter and or select the information settings into their respective user devices are provided in more detail herein with later reference to .

The information settings for the individual groups may correspond to the information which the group managers wish to receive from the user devices of the members of the associated groups for each instance information is shared and or other considerations. The information received by the group managers may correspond to information which is captured and sent from the user devices associated with the members of a group to the server e.g. to the implementation component described shortly below and then communicated from the server to the user devices of the group managers .

Information settings selected by the group managers may comprise entry and or selection of one or more of information type size and or the time date related to the information that they wish to receive from the user devices of members of the associated user groups and or other considerations. Group manager selections may be accomplished by the group managers employing a suitable interface presented on their respective user devices which is capable of receiving such entry and or selection. For example the user devices of the group managers may be configured to effectuate presentation of a user interface on the user devices of the group managers . The user interface may be configured such that the group managers may select check boxes items from a list and or other technique for providing selections of the desired information settings. Group managers may make selection of information settings by other techniques and or methods.

Settings component may obtain the information settings from the group managers in a variety of ways. In some implementations the entry and or selection of information setting may be saved directly to the server e.g. in storage . In some implementations the entry and or selection of information setting may be saved locally at the user devices associated with the group managers . The user devices may be configured to effectuate transmission of the locally saved information settings from the respective user device to the server through a communication channel e.g. network . Settings component may obtain the information settings selected by the group managers by other techniques.

For example referring to and the information settings obtained by settings component may include first information settings for the first group selected by the first group manager e.g. user associated with the third user device . The first information settings may correspond to one or more of the type of information size of data files of information which can be shared the time date at which information may be shared and or other information as described herein. For example following the previous teacher student example the teacher may make an information settings selection which defines the sharing of information only during class times and or times when homework related information is due and or other considerations. Information which is shared may include information associated with a first information set . The first information set may include information that is received by the implementation component from the first member e.g. user of first user device the second member e.g. user of second user device and or other members associated with the first group and or other information.

In some implementations referring back to the implementation component may be configured to implement the information settings. Implementing the information settings may include effectuating a capture of information at the user devices of the members . The implementation component may be configured to receive the information which is captured on user devices of the members associated with the user groups . A manner in which group managers direct the members to initiate capture information on their respective user devices and or information is automatically captured and or a manner in which the information is sent to the implementation component is described in more detail with later reference to .

In some implementations the information settings selected by the group managers may only be viewable and or perceptible on user devices associated with the group managers . For example during implementation of the information settings the group members may ambiguously capture and or send omnibus information to the sever . The implementation component may be configured to implement the information settings to obtain exclusive information from the omnibus e.g. non exclusive information. The exclusive information may then be shared with the group managers e.g. communicated from the server to the user devices of the group managers . The processes of the implementation component described in more detail herein may be imperceptible by the group members e.g. group members are unaware of the processes of the implementation component . Other techniques in which information is shared are described in more detail herein.

In some implementation the group managers may create customizable input templates input forms blanks and or software interfaces of which the group members can use to selectively capture input and or specify the certain information for sharing see e.g. . The group managers may create and or customize such data input forms on their respective user devices and or send the interfaces for display and or user interaction on the user device of the group members for each instance of sharing. For example the system may be configured such that a given group manager may design a data input form that consists of text fields dropdown boxes checkboxes drag and drop fields and or other input considerations relating to the information the group managers desire to receive. The customized form may be communicated to the user devices of the group members directly or indirectly such that the group members can use the custom form for making the selections of the information to share.

Once the implementation component receives the captured information the implementation component may be configured to transmit all and or a subset of the received information to user devices of the group managers associated with the user groups . The group managers may view the aggregate information received from the server corresponding to one or all associated group members via a display e.g. visual display screen on their respective user devices .

In some implementations the implementation component may be configured such that information that is captured from user devices of the members and received by the implementation component comprises non exclusive information. Non exclusive information may be non exclusive information as described previously herein e.g. omnibus information independent on information settings and or other information. The implementation component may receive the captured non exclusive information. The implementation component may be configured to filter through the non exclusive information to obtain exclusive information e.g. information that is in accordance with the information settings . The implementation component may be configured to effectuate transmission of only the exclusive information to the user devices of the group managers .

In some implementations the implementation component may be configured such that the information that is captured from user devices of the members and thereafter received by the implementation component comprises only the exclusive information. Exclusive information may be information corresponding exclusively to the information settings e.g. only the information related to the selections of the information settings . For example the user device of the members may be configured to only capture such exclusive information and or other considerations. In some implementations the implementation component receives the captured exclusive information and transmits the exclusive information to the user devices of the group managers e.g. with or without further filtering .

As an illustrative example in in some implementations the implementation component may be configured to receive the first information set . The first information set may include information captured on and sent to the sever e.g. implementation component from the first user device the second user device and or other user devices and or may include other information. The implementation component may transmit the received first information set or a subset of the first information set to the third user device associated with the first group manager.

In some implementations the received first information set may comprise first non exclusive information . The first non exclusive information may include non exclusive information that is captured on and sent from the first user device second user device and or other user devices. The implementation component may be configured to however effectuate transmission of a subset of the first information comprising only first exclusive information to the third user device for sharing with the first group manager. The first exclusive information may be a subset of the first non exclusive information that is determined based on the first information settings . In some implementations obtaining the first exclusive information may comprise filtering by the implementation component the received first non exclusive information for the first exclusive information based on the selections associated with the first information settings .

As another illustrative example in the received first information set may comprise the first exclusive information and or other information. The first exclusive information may include exclusive information that is captured on and sent from the first user device second user device and or other user devices. The implementation component may be configured to effectuate transmission of the first exclusive information to the third user device for sharing with the first group manager e.g. without filtering .

In some implementations the implementation component may be configured such that receiving only the first exclusive information from the first user device second user device and or other user devices is accomplished by virtue of only exclusive information being captured at the respective devices based on the first information settings . For example the server e.g. settings component may communicate the first information settings e.g. received from the first group manager to the first user device the second user device and or other user devices within the first group such that the user devices are capable of determining the exclusivity of the information which should be captured. In some implementations communicating the received first information settings to the user devices may be imperceptible by the first member second member and or other members. For example the members may be unaware that only exclusive information is being captured when they share information. In some implementations communicating the received first information settings to the user devices may be perceptible by the members such that they are aware that only exclusive information is being captured for sharing.

It is noted that although and specifically depict processor and computer components and for the third user device associated with the first group manager of a first user group it is to be understood that the features and descriptions directed thereto may be similarly carried out by any user devices associated with group managers of any of the user group and therefore should not be considered limited by the depiction.

Further it is additionally noted that although and currently depicts processor and computer components and included in the first user device it is to be understood that the features and descriptions directed thereto may be similarly carried out by any and all user devices associated with any and or all group members of any and or all of the user groups e.g. including second user device associated with the second member of the first user group and or other user devices associated with other group members and therefore should not be considered limited by the depiction.

With that being said in the input component may be configured to obtain information settings input from the group managers . Obtaining the information settings may be based at least in part on entry and or selection of information settings by the group managers. For example the input component may be configured to obtain the first information settings based on entry and or selection by the first group manager. The first information settings may then be obtained by the settings component of the server of by any of the techniques as described previously herein see e.g. inter alia descriptions for A and or B and or other considerations.

The transmission component may be configured to effectuate transmission to the user devices associated with the members of a given user group of a message directing the members to capture and or send e.g. share information to the group manager. For example the transmission component may be configured to effectuation transmission to the first user device the second user device and or other user devices associated with members of the first user group a first message directing the first member and or the second member e.g. and or other members of the first group to capture and or send e.g. share information to the first group manager e.g. user of the third user device . The transmission component may be configured to initiate capture and or sharing of information by the members by other techniques.

The reception component may be configured to responsive to the members sending information to the group managers e.g. directly or indirectly as directed by the message transmitted via the transmission component receive information from the members of the user groups associated with the group managers. The information received may be in accordance to the information settings obtained by the input component and communicated to the settings component in . The information may be received by the user devices of the group managers by techniques described previously herein see e.g. inter alia descriptions for A and or B . For example responsive to the first member and or second member capturing and or sending information as directed by the first message the reception component receives the first information set that comprises some or all of the information captured and or sent from the first user device and or the second user device . The third user device e.g. reception component may be configured to receive the first information set and or a subset of the first information set as described previously herein see e.g. inter alia descriptions for and or .

The display component may be configured to display the information received by the reception component on the user devices of the group managers . The information may be displayed on the user devices by techniques previously described herein see e.g. inter alia descriptions for . The display component may effectuate presentation of user identification information along with the shared information. Again the user identification information may facilitate organizing and or listing the received information with respect to the sender thereby allowing the group manager viewing the displayed information to correlate the displayed share information with the appropriate members as described previously herein see e.g. inter alia descriptions for . For example the display component may be configured to effectuate a display of the first information set or a subset of the first information set user identification information associated therewith and or other information.

In some implementations the display component may be configured to extract text and or other data e.g. metadata from images shared and displayed on the user devices of the group managers . For example text extraction from images containing text and or other data may be accomplished via optical character recognition OCR and or other techniques. This may allow the system to automate the extraction of data e.g. text from the captured images. In some implementations the display component may be additionally configured to compile and present the extracted data on one or more charts graphs figures and or other suitable display graphics providing an organized view that allows the group mangers to visualize the data once extracted.

In some implementations the user devices may be configured such that managers and or members customize image specific OCR templates see e.g. . Such templates may be configured to identify and extract key data e.g. text from images sent to the group managers e.g. images including text portions desired to be extracted which always appear in the same location of the image . In some implementations the system may be configured to facilitate sharing of these customized templates between group managers of the system e.g. crowd sourcing of the OCR templates . The templates may be made available for access by group manages via a database of such templates stored by the server an external resource and or other considerations.

Referring now to the user devices of the group members the messaging component may be configured to receive messages which are sent either directly or indirectly from user devices of the group manager . The messages may be messages directing the group member to send information to the group managers as described previously herein. For example the messaging component may be configured to receive the first message sent from the third user device e.g. first group manager of the first group either directly or indirectly . The messaging component may be configured such that messages are received via communication channels which are internal or external to the system . For example messages may be communicated via one or more of the network an SMS message electronic mail voice message a telephone call communications routed to and or from the server and or other communication channel which is internal and or external to the system .

The capture component may be configured to responsive to the members positively responding to the messages received by the messaging component capture information from the user devices of the member . The captured information may correspond to selections of information settings by the group manager in manner which captured information is exclusive to the information settings and or non exclusive to the information settings as described previously herein see e.g. inter alia description for and or .

Responsive to capturing the information the capture component may be configured to send the information to a remote server e.g. server in . The remote server may receive the captured and sent information via techniques described previously herein see e.g. inter alia description for . As an illustrative example responsive to the first member positively responding to the first message received by the messaging component the capture component may be configured to perform a first capture of information at the first user device . The first capture may include non exclusive information exclusive information and or other information. Responsive to capturing the information included in the first capture the capture component may be configured to send the information included in the first capture to the remote server.

In some implementations the capture component may be configured such that members positively responding to the messages received by the messaging component comprises effectuating by the messaging component the presentation of a user interface on the user devices of the members . The user interface may be configured to receive an input response from the members for responding to the message see e.g. . In some implementations the user interface comprises at least a selectable send button and or other considerations. The selectable send button may include a graphical representation of a button presented on the user devices . The user devices may be configured to receive user entry and or selection of the simulated button e.g. via a keyed input touchscreen input voice input gesture input and or other consideration .

In some implementations the capture component may be configured such that the capturing information from the user devices and the sending information from the user devices to the remote server occur at the same time e.g. at the instant the user selects the send button . In some implementations capturing information and sending information may be accomplished in separate steps.

In some implementations the capture component may be configured such that capturing information may include employing a group manager customized input form as described previously. For example illustrates an implementation of a first user interface presented on user devices of group managers. The first user interface may be used to create and or select customized input forms such as form . In some implementations the first user interface may be configured to receive user entry and or selection for selecting various information settings to include in the the form . For example the user select from a plurality of icons representing the information types size and or date and or time related to the information they wish to be shared. The user may drag and drop the desired icons corresponding to the desired information settings they wish to implement. It is noted that the depiction of a drag and drop technique for user entry is provided merely for illustrative purposes. For example in other implementations the first user interface may be configured for other entry and or selection techniques e.g. check boxes drop down boxes and or other technique . The group mangers may name their customized form for saving on the server and or user device.

In some implementations the third user interface may include one or more other selectable elements buttons and or icons which direct the user in selectively capturing information for sharing. In some implementations the icons may be unelectable until the user has positively responded to a message e.g. selection of interface element and or other considerations. The icons may correspond to the selections made by a group manager using a user interface the same or similar to the first user interface . Individual selection of the icons may facilitate capturing and or retrieving the associated information e.g. direct the user to selecting photos to share capturing screenshots retrieving device information and or other considerations . Once information is captured the third user interface may be configured to receive user entry and or selection of a confirmation to send the information e.g. via a send interface element . In some implementations the third user interface may present a review of the information prior to actually sending the information e.g. requiring additional entry and or selection from the member to finalize sending the information .

In some implementations the third user interface employed for receiving user entry and or selection for capturing and or sending information may include only the send interface element . In this manner the members may or may not have to selectively capture each item of information such that the selection of the sent interface element effectuates the capture as well as the transmission. The capture may correspond to either exclusive information and or non exclusive information as described herein.

In some implementation the fourth user interface may include other features and or components that may facilitate organization of information. For example the fourth user interface may include components related to the activity history of the group manager e.g. activity log the activity histories of the members help menus and or other considerations.

The depictions and or accompanying descriptions of the user interfaces shown in are intended for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to be limiting. For example in some implementations the formatting structure various components and or other elements of the user interfaces may be changed modified and or additional features may be added in accordance with one or more implementations of the system presented herein.

Returning to the server user devices and or external resources may be operatively linked via one or more electronic communication links. For example such electronic communication links may be established at least in part via network such as the Internet and or other networks such as near field communication Bluetooth and or wifi. It will be appreciated that this is not intended to be limiting and that the scope of this disclosure includes implementations in which servers user devices and or external resources may be operatively linked via some other communication media.

The external resources may include sources of information hosts and or providers of virtual environments outside of system external entities participating with system e.g. cloud storage and or other resources. In some implementations some or all of the functionality attributed herein to external resources may be provided by resources included in system .

The server and user devices may include electronic storage respectively one or more processors respectively and or other components. The server and or user devices may include communication lines or ports to enable the exchange of information with a network and or other computing platforms. Illustration of server and user devices in are not intended to be limiting. The server and user devices may include a plurality of hardware software and or firmware components operating together to provide the functionality attributed herein to the server and user devices respectively. For example server may be implemented by a cloud of computing platforms operating together as server .

Electronic storage may comprise electronic storage media that electronically stores information. The electronic storage media of electronic storage may include one or both of system storage that is provided integrally i.e. substantially non removable with server and user devices respectively and or removable storage that is removably connectable to server and user devices respectively via for example a port e.g. a USB port a firewire port etc. or a drive e.g. a disk drive etc. . Electronic storage may include one or more of optically readable storage media e.g. optical disks etc. magnetically readable storage media e.g. magnetic tape magnetic hard drive floppy drive etc. electrical charge based storage media e.g. EEPROM RAM etc. solid state storage media e.g. flash drive etc. and or other electronically readable storage media. The electronic storage may include one or more virtual storage resources e.g. cloud storage a virtual private network and or other virtual storage resources . Electronic storage may store software algorithms information determined by processors respectively information received from server information received from user devices and or other information that enables server and user devices to function as described herein.

Processor s are configured to provide information processing capabilities in server and user devices respectively. As such processors may include one or more of a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information. Although processors and are shown in as respective single entities this is for illustrative purposes only. In some implementations processor and or may include one or more processing units. These respective processing units may be physically located within the same device or processor and or may represent processing functionality of a plurality of devices operating in coordination. The processor may be configured to execute components . Processor may be configured to execute components by software hardware firmware some combination of software hardware and or firmware and or other mechanisms for configuring processing capabilities on processor . The processors may be configured to execute components and or . Processor may be configured to execute components and or by software hardware firmware some combination of software hardware and or firmware and or other mechanisms for configuring processing capabilities on processor .

It should be appreciated that although components and and are illustrated in as being co located within respective single processing units in implementations in which processor and or include multiple processing units one or more of components and or and or may be located remotely from the other components. The description of the functionality provided by the different components and or and or described above is for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting as any of components and or and or may provide more or less functionality than is described. For example one or more of components and or may be eliminated and some or all of its functionality may be provided by other ones of components and or other components. As another example processor may be configured to execute one or more additional components that may perform some or all of the functionality attributed below to one of components .

In some implementations the methods and or may be implemented in one or more processing devices e.g. a digital processor an analog processor a digital circuit designed to process information an analog circuit designed to process information a state machine and or other mechanisms for electronically processing information . The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices executing some or all of the operations of methods and or in response to instructions stored electronically on an electronic storage medium. The one or more processing devices may include one or more devices configured through hardware firmware and or software to be specifically designed for execution of one or more of the operations of methods and or .

Referring now to a method in of processing and or organization information communicated between media devices at an operation users of user devices may be associated with individual user groups. The associations may include associating group manager type users as managers of the individual user groups and group members type users as members of the individual user. In some implementations operation may be performed by a grouping component the same as or similar to grouping component shown in and described herein .

At an operation information settings for individual user groups related to the information shared between users in the group may be obtained. The information settings for the individual groups may correspond to information that is to be received by user devices of the group managers from user devices of the members associated with the user groups. In some implementations operation may be performed by a settings component the same as or similar to the settings component shown in and described herein .

At an operation information which is captured on user devices of the member associated with the user groups may be received. The received information and or other information may be transmitted to user devices of the group managers associated with the user groups. Information which is received may be exclusive or non exclusive to the information settings. The information which is transmitted may be exclusive to the information settings based on the implementation of the information settings. In some implementations operation may be performed by an implementation component the same as or similar to implementation component shown in and described herein .

Referring now to method in for communicating information between a group manager user device and user devices of members of the group managed by the group manager at an operation information settings for an individual user group may be obtained on the user devices of the group manager. Obtaining the information settings may include the group manager inputting entry and or selections of information settings on their user device. In some implementations operation may be performed by an input component the same as or similar to input component shown in and described herein .

At an operation a message may be transmitted from the user device of the group manager to the user devices associated with the members of the individual user group either directly or indirectly. The message may direct the members to capture and or send information to the group manager. In some implementations this operation may be performed by a transmission component the same as or similar to the transmission component shown in and described herein .

At an operation responsive to the members capturing and or sending information to the group manager as directed by the message the user devices of the group managers may receive information from the members of the user group. The information received may be in accordance to the information settings. In some implementations operation may be performed by a reception component the same as or similar to reception component shown in and described herein .

At an operation the information received by the user device of the group manager may be displayed on the user device of the group manager. In some implementations operation may be performed by a display component the same as or similar to display component shown in and described herein .

Referring now to method in of communicating information between a group member user device and a user device of manager of a user group at an operation messages sent from the user device of the group manager may be received. In some implementations this operation may be performed by a messaging component the same as or similar to messaging component shown in and described herein .

At an operation responsive to the member positively responding to the message received by the previous operation information may be captured on the user device of the member of individual user group. The captured information may correspond to selections of information settings by the group manager and or other information. Responsive to capturing the information the information may be sent to a remote server. In some implementations operation may be performed by a capture component the same as or similar to the capture component shown in and described herein .

Although the present technology has been described in detail for the purpose of illustration based on what is currently considered to be the most practical and preferred implementations it is to be understood that such detail is solely for that purpose and that the technology is not limited to the disclosed implementations but on the contrary is intended to cover modifications and equivalent arrangements that are within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. For example it is to be understood that the present technology contemplates that to the extent possible one or more features of any implementation can be combined with one or more features of any other implementation.

