---

title: Terminal and server for applying security policy, and method of controlling the same
abstract: A method of operating a terminal using Mobile Device Management (MDM) solution includes: installing an application, requesting for registration by a license key received from an Enterprise License Management (ELM) server, receiving a Right Object (R/O) that corresponds to the license key and comprises a permission list, setting at least one permission based on the permission list comprised in the received R/O, and performing the set permission. A terminal using MDM comprises an MDM application configured to control an installed application to acquire a required permission, a ELM agent configured to request for registration by a license key from an ELM server, and receive a R/O that corresponds to the license key and comprises a permission list, and an ELM permission enforcer configured to set at least one permission based on the permission list comprised in the received R/O.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09584494&OS=09584494&RS=09584494
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09584494
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140224
---
The present application is related to and claims the priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Application Serial No. 10 2013 0019443 which was filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Feb. 22 2013 the entire content of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a terminal and a server for applying a security policy and a method of controlling the same. More particularly the present disclosure relates to a terminal and a server that can apply a security policy by Mobile Device Management MDM and a method of controlling the same.

In recent years smart phones tablet Personal Computers PCs and portable electronic devices have come into wide use and related technologies have also been developed. Accordingly workers who are with an enterprise frequently enter and exit places of business while carrying a smart phone or a tablet PC. Due to this the enterprise establishes various security policies to solve security problems such as leaking of information through the smart phone or the tablet PC and studies a solution or a service in order to implement the established security policies. A Mobile Device Management MDM solution restricts permission of an application stored in a smart phone or a table PC as a solution for implementation of a security policy.

According to various embodiments an Android platform may set permission when providing an Application Programming Interface API to an application. For example when a new application is installed the application may request an API for a camera function or an API for a Bluetooth function from the Android platform.

Meanwhile an enterprise using the MDM solution may establish a security policy for restricting a specific function for example a camera function.

The Android platform uses four protection levels i.e. a normal protection level a dangerous protection level a signature protection level and a signatureOrSystem protection level when providing an API. In order for an application to acquire permission for usage of a specific API or function in the signature protection level a certificate of an application declaring the permission should coincide with a certificate of an application defining the corresponding permission. When the certificate of the application declaring the permission coincides with the certificate of the application defining the corresponding permission all permission that the application requests may be automatically granted from the Android platform. The granted permission is preserved until the application is deleted in which case there is a problem in that the granting method is somewhat static. Namely it is difficult to flexibly change the granted permission. Accordingly the granted permission may not be changed even if a contract with a terminal manufacturing company is terminated or a range of the contract is varied after a third party solution acquires all necessary permission.

Further the MDM solution according to the related art may have the following two security problems when a specific application uses the same signature as a platform.

1. The application signed with a certificate of the platform may have permission equivalent to that of an application previously loaded in a system. Accordingly restriction on some permission defined not to be generally used in Android in addition to APIs for the MDM solution may be fragile.

2. In a case where the corresponding application is recognized as a part of the system and a Shared User Mentifier UID is additionally defined the corresponding application may acquire permission for controlling files of a system area that the system protects from access of a general application or a user.

To address the above discussed deficiencies it is a primary object to provide a terminal and a server that can apply a security policy by a security related application or service such as an MDM solution that can dynamically grant permission and a method of controlling the same.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method of controlling a terminal by using Mobile Device Management MDM is provided. The method includes installing an application requesting registration by a license key from an Enterprise License Management ELM server receiving a Right Object R O that corresponds to the license key and includes a permission list setting permission based on the permission list included in the received R O and processing the set permission.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a terminal using Mobile Device Management MDM is provided. The terminal includes a controller that installs an application and a communication unit that requests registration by a license key from an Enterprise License Management ELM server and receives a Right Object R O that corresponds to the license key and includes a permission list wherein the controller sets permission based on the permission list included in the received R O and acquires the set permission.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a terminal using Mobile Device Management MDM is provided. The terminal includes an MDM application that controls an installed application to acquire required permission an Enterprise License Management ELM agent that requests registration by a license key from an ELM server and receives a Right Object R O that corresponds to the license key and includes a permission list and an ELM permission enforcer that sets permission based on the permission list included in the received R O and acquires the set permission.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method of controlling an Enterprise License Management ELM server that provides Mobile Device Management MDM is provided. The method includes receiving a request for transmission of a license key for MDM construction generating the license key in response to the request and transmitting the generated license key to an MDM vendor for the MDM construction receiving an inquiry as to registration by the license key from a terminal using the MDM and transmitting a Right Object R O to the terminal when it is determined that the license key received from the terminal is valid wherein the R O includes a permission list of permissions which the terminal using the MDM may page.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method of controlling a Mobile Device Management MDM server that provides MDM is provided. The method includes embedding a license key received from an Enterprise License Management ELM server that provides the MDM establishing and storing a security policy of the MDM and transmitting at least one of the license key and the security policy to a terminal using the MDM.

As described above the present disclosure provides a terminal and a server which can apply a security policy by a security related application or service such as an MDM solution that can dynamically grant permission and a method of controlling the same. Accordingly only the API provided to a Software Development Kit SDK may be controlled and all other permissions that a platform does not want to approve may not be granted. Namely a possibility of granting all the unnecessary permissions is excluded and therefore a third party using the API may be prevented from performing unintended activities with unnecessary permission of a system level. In addition in a case where an SDK API provider does not trust the third party a method for withdrawing the previously granted permission may be supported.

Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document the terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation the term or is inclusive meaning and or the phrases associated with and associated therewith as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like and the term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation such a device may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.

Referring to the MDM solution can include a terminal a gateway an MDM server a mobile registration server a database server and an authentication server .

The terminal can download a specific application and install the downloaded application. In addition the terminal can be driven based on an Operating system OS and can manage an application based on an OS driving method. For example the terminal can manage the application based on various OS driving methods including Android iOS Blackberry Windows Mobile Symbian Bada and the like. An application can be a general term for programs that can be executed in the various operating systems as described above. The terminal can identify permission related to Application Programming Interface API paging that an application requires. Meanwhile the terminal can restrict some API permissions required by an application from being provided based on a security policy established by the MDM server. Accordingly a user of the terminal may not use some functions of the application under the MDM solution and therefore internal security can be enhanced.

Meanwhile the terminal does not perpetually use the API permission initially approved by the MDM solution. The terminal can periodically or aperiodically inquire a server of a terminal manufacturing company as to whether a license key is valid which will be more specifically described below. The terminal can reset the API permission that will be approved based on a responded Right Object R O according to whether the license key is valid. Accordingly the permission can be dynamically set.

The terminal can be implemented as a smart phone or a tablet Personal Computer PC and a structure of the terminal will be more specifically described below with reference to .

The terminal can perform communication with the gateway . The gateway can manage a communication connection between the terminal and the MDM server and can perform a connection through a mobile Virtual Private Network VPN and a public mobile communication network. The gateway can perform functions of the communication connection between the terminal and the MDM server authentication encryption communication encryption and user authentication based on a certificate in the mobile VPN Internet Protocol Security IPSec communication encryption . More specifically the gateway can include a storage module that stores an electronic signature certificate a mobile VPN policy engine that sets a VPN policy a VPN driving agent a mobile VPN driver and the like.

As an administration service for managing the terminal the MDM server can change environment settings of the terminal and other MDM related systems or can apply a distribution and a patch of security software. More particularly the MDM server can store a security policy established by an administrator. The MDM server can control permission contrary to the established security policy. For example the MDM server can restrict camera related API permission or can monitor an operation of the terminal .

The mobile registration server can perform device registration of the terminal . For example the mobile registration server can perform authentication when receiving a request for registration from the terminal .

The database server can store data that the MDM server manages. More particularly the database server can store status information of the terminal that the MDM server manages. For example the status information can be an application newly installed in the terminal and permission information that an application requires. The MDM server can control such that API permissions contrary to the security policy are not provided by using the status information of the terminal which has been read out of the database server .

As described above the terminal may not provide based on the security policy some of the API permissions that the application requires. More particularly the terminal does not maintain the set permission as in the related art and can flexibly reset permission based on the received R O while determining whether the license key is valid.

The MDM vendor can provide a service by using an MDM API provided from a manufacturing company of the terminal and can be a third party that constructs the MDM solution for the enterprise . The MDM vendor can also be referred to as an Independent Software Vendor ISV . The MDM vendor can construct the MDM solution based on a Software Development Kit SDK provided from the ELM server and can embed the constructed MDM solution in the internal server of the enterprise or the cloud servers to such that the enterprise uses the constructed MDM solution. Operations of the MDM solution will be more specifically described below.

In operation the MDM vendor can select a license key option based on an MDM solution desired to be constructed. The MDM vendor can apply the selected license key option through for example various methods such as the web portal . The license key option can include at least one of a key for authentication a key for identification and required SDK information or permission information. Alternatively the license key option can also include only a key for authentication or identification.

In operation the web portal may request the license key from the ELM server based on the application received from the MDM vendor .

In operation the ELM server can generate the license key based on the received request for the license key. The ELM server can transmit the generated license key to the web portal . The license key can include at least one of SDK information or permission information that will be provided to the MDM vendor . In addition the license key can also include information as to whether the MDM vendor is to use the MDM solution.

In operation the web portal can receive the license key and transmit to the MDM vendor at least one of the license key and the SDK which have been received.

Meanwhile the web portal can include an Independent Software Vendor ISV management engine an SDK and license key download engine and a technical support engine . The ISV management engine can perform communication with the MDM vendor . For example the ISV management engine can receive the license key option from the MDM vendor and relay the received license key to the MDM vendor . The SDK and license key download engine can download the license key from the ELM server. The technical support engine can control an overall operation of the web portal .

The ELM server can include an Elastic Load Balancer ELB a Representational State Transfer REST API license management a web portal interface and analytics .

The ELB as an Elastic Load Balancer can serve to prevent overloads through properly distributing tasks in a plurality of servers within the ELM server.

The REST API is not necessarily a message named REST but corresponds to an API which devices loaded with an external MDM solution can use through a network as a form for designing a loosely coupled web application depending on a resource to which a name is granted for example a resource configured in the form of a Uniform Resource Locator URL a Uniform Resource Identifier URI or a Uniform Resource Name URN .

The analytics can receive logs of API usage information or other information from the terminal using the MDM and variously analyze the same.

An administrator can manage the license of the ELM server and in addition can manage the license key through renewal of a contract with the MDM vendor in a B2B Business to Business form. For example when contents of a contract are changed the administrator can change the license key to reset a permission list which will be included in the R O.

In operation the MDM vendor can embed the received license key in the MDM servers to . The MDM servers to can be implemented as a cloud server and the MDM server can be arrange in the enterprise . The enterprise can include the MDM server and manage terminals and entering the enterprise . The MDM server can store a security policy established by an administrator . The security policy can include whether specific permission is approved or not.

In operation the terminal can receive the license key and the security policy from the MDM server in the enterprise or the cloud servers to .

In operation the terminal can inquire the ELM server as to whether the license key is valid when using the MDM solution or the terminal can periodically inquire the ELM server as to whether the license key is valid. The terminal can request to register the license key in the ELM server.

In operation the ELM server can transmit to the corresponding terminal a Right Object R O including information on permission that the corresponding terminal can approve.

In operation the ELM server can transfer statistical information on an account to MDM vendors and through various methods.

The terminal can set API permission approved on the basis of the received R O. Accordingly when a user controls the terminal some of the API permission can be restricted.

Hereinafter the terminal will be described with reference to and operations of the terminal will be described with reference to .

Referring to the terminal can be connected with an external apparatus not illustrated by using a mobile communication module a sub communication module and a connector . The external device can include a different device not shown a mobile phone not shown a smart phone not shown a tablet PC not shown and a server not shown .

The terminal can include a touch screen and a touch screen controller . In addition the terminal can include a controller a mobile communication module a sub communication module a multimedia module a camera module a GPS module an input output module a sensor module a storage unit and a power supply unit . The sub communication module includes at least one of a wireless LAN module and a near field communication module and the multimedia module includes at least one of a broadcasting communication module an audio reproducing module and a moving image reproducing module . The camera module includes at least one of a first camera and a second camera and the input output module includes at least one of a button a microphone a speaker a vibration motor a connector and a keypad .

The controller can include a CPU a ROM in which control programs for controlling the terminal are stored and a RAM which stores signals or data input from the outside of the terminal or is used as a memory region for an operation executed in the terminal . The CPU can include a single core a dual core a triple core or a quad core. The CPU the ROM and the RAM can be connected with each other through internal buses.

The controller can control the mobile communication module the sub communication module the multimedia module the camera module the GPS module the input output module the sensor module the storage unit the power supplier a first touch screen a second touch screen and the touch screen controller .

More particularly the controller can restrict API permission based on a license key and a security policy received in the mobile communication module or the sub communication module . Further the controller can control the mobile communication module or the sub communication module to request registration of the license key. In addition the controller can reset restriction and approval of the API permission based on an R O received in the mobile communication module or the sub communication module .

The mobile communication module allows the terminal to be connected with an external apparatus through mobile communication using one or more antennas not illustrated according to the control of the controller . The mobile communication module can transmit receive a wireless signal for voice communication image communication text message SMS or multimedia message MMS to from a portable phone not illustrated of which the phone number is input to the terminal a smart phone not illustrated a tablet PC or other apparatuses not illustrated .

The sub communication module can include at least one of the wireless LAN module and the near field communication module . For example the sub communication module can include only the wireless LAN module only the near field communication module or both the wireless LAN module and the near field communication module .

Meanwhile the mobile communication module or the sub communication module can also be referred to as a communication unit.

The wireless LAN module can be connected to the Internet according to the control of the controller in a place where a wireless AP Access Point not illustrated is installed. The wireless LAN module supports a wireless LAN standard IEEE802.11x of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. The near field communication module can perform local area communication wirelessly between the terminal and an image forming apparatus not illustrated according to the control of the controller . Schemes for the local area communication can include for example the Bluetooth scheme the IrDA Infrared Data Association communication scheme and the Zig bee scheme.

According to the performance the terminal can include at least one of the mobile communication module the wireless LAN module and the near field communication module . For example according to the performance the terminal can include a combination of the mobile communication module the wireless LAN module and the near field communication module .

The multimedia module can include the broadcasting communication module the audio reproducing module or the moving image reproducing module . The broadcasting communication module can receive a broadcasting signal e.g. a TV broadcasting signal a radio broadcasting signal or a data broadcasting signal which is transmitted from a broadcasting station or broadcasting added information e.g. EPG Electric Program Guide or ESG Electric Service Guide through a broadcasting communication antenna not illustrated according to the control of the controller . The audio reproducing module can reproduce a stored or received digital audio file e.g. a file of which the file extension is mp3 wma ogg or way according to the control of the controller . The moving image reproducing module can reproduce a stored or received digital moving image file e.g. a file of which the file extension is mpeg mpg mp4 avi mov or mkv according to the control of the controller . The moving image reproducing module can reproduce a digital audio file.

The multimedia module can include the audio reproduction module and the video reproduction module except for the broadcasting communication module . Also the audio reproducing module or the moving image reproducing module of the multimedia module can be included in the controller .

The camera module can include at least one of the first camera and the second camera each of which photographs a still image or a moving image according to the control of the controller . In addition the first camera or the second camera can include an auxiliary light source e.g. a flash not illustrated that provides an amount of light required for photographing. The first camera can be disposed on the front surface of the terminal and the second camera can be disposed on the rear surface of the terminal . In a different way the first camera and the second camera can be disposed to be adjacent to each other for example an interval between the first camera and the second camera is larger than 1 cm or smaller than 8 cm and thus a three dimensional still image or a three dimensional video can be photographed.

The GPS module can receive radio waves from a plurality of Earth orbiting GPS satellites not illustrated and can calculate the position of the terminal using the time of arrival of the radio waves to the terminal from the GPS satellites.

The input output module can include at least one of a plurality of buttons a microphone a speaker a vibration motor a connector and a keypad .

The buttons can be formed on the front surface side surfaces or rear surface of the housing of the terminal and can include at least one of a power lock button not illustrated a volume button not illustrated a menu button a home button a back button and a search button.

The microphone receives an input of voice or sound to produce an electrical signal according to the control of the controller .

The speaker can output sounds which respectively correspond to various signals of the mobile communication module the sub communication module the multimedia module and the camera module e.g. a radio signal a broadcasting signal a digital audio file a digital moving image file or photographing to the outside of the terminal according to the control of the controller . The speaker can output a sound which corresponds to the functions performed by the terminal for example a button operation sound corresponding to a phone call or a call connection sound . One or more speakers can be formed at a proper position or positions of the housing of the terminal .

The vibration motor can convert an electronic signal to mechanical vibration according to the control of the controller . For example when the terminal in a vibration mode receives a voice call from any other apparatus not illustrated the vibration motor is operated. One or more vibration motors can be provided in the housing of the terminal . The vibration motor can be operated in response to a user s touch action that touches the touch screen and a continuous touch movement on the touch screen .

The connector can be used as an interface which interconnects the terminal and an external apparatus not illustrated or a power source not illustrated . The terminal can transmit data stored in the storage unit of the terminal to the external apparatus not illustrated or receive data from an external apparatus not illustrated through a wired cable connected to the connector according to the control of the controller . The user terminal can receive power from a power source not illustrated through the wired cable connected to the connector or charge a battery not illustrated using the power source .

The keypad can receive a key input from the user so as to control the terminal . The keypad includes a physical keypad not illustrated formed on the terminal or a virtual keypad not illustrated displayed on the touch screen . The physical keypad not illustrated formed on the terminal can be omitted according to the performance or configuration of the terminal .

The sensor module can include at least one sensor that detects the status of the terminal . For example the sensor module can include a proximity sensor that detects whether the user approaches to the terminal or not an illumination sensor not illustrated that detects the amount of light around the terminal or a motion sensor not illustrated that detects the operation of the terminal e.g. rotation of the terminal or acceleration or vibration applied to the terminal . At least one sensor can detect the state generate a signal corresponding to the detection and transmit the generated signal to the controller . The sensors of the sensor module can be added or omitted according to the performance of the terminal .

The storage unit can store signals or data input output in response to the operations of the mobile communication module the sub communication module the multimedia module the camera module the GPS module the input output module the sensor module and the touch screen according to the control of the controller . The storage unit can store control programs and applications for controlling the terminal or the controller .

The term storage unit can include the storage unit the ROM and the RAM in the controller or a memory card not illustrated e.g. an SD card or a memory stick mounted in the terminal . The storage unit can include a non volatile memory a volatile memory an HDD Hard Disc Drive or an SSD Solid State Drive .

The power supply unit can supply power to one or more batteries not illustrated provided in the housing of the terminal according to the control of the controller . The one or more batteries not illustrated supply power to the terminal . In addition the power supply unit can supply power input from an external power source not illustrated through a wired cable connected to the connector to the terminal .

The touch screen can provide a user interface corresponding to various services for example phone communication data transmission broadcasting and photographing a picture to the user. The touch screen can transmit an analog signal corresponding to at least one touch input into the user interface to the touch screen controller . The touch screen can receive at least one touch through a body part of the user for example fingers including a thumb or a touchable input means. Also the touch screen can receive a continuous motion of one touch among at least one touch. The touch screen can transmit an analogue signal corresponding to the continuous movement of the touch input thereto to the touch screen controller .

The touch according to the present disclosure is not limited to a touch between the touch screen and the body part of the user or the touchable input means but can include a non touch for example a case where a detectable interval between the touch screen and the body part of the user or the touchable input means is equal to or smaller than 1 mm . The detectable interval of the touch screen can be changed according to a capability or structure of the portable terminal .

The touch screen can be implemented in for example a resistive type a capacitive type an infrared type or an acoustic wave type.

The touch screen controller converts the analog signal received by the touch screen to a digital signal for example X and Y coordinates and transmits the digital signal to the controller . The controller can control the touch screen by using the digital signal received from the touch screen controller . For example the controller can allow a shortcut execution icon not shown displayed on the touch screen to be selected or executed in response to the touch. Further the touch screen controller can be included in the controller

The terminal system structure can include a Linux Kernel Android libraries an Android run time an Android framework and an application layer . The terminal system structure can be connected with an MDM server and an ELM server . For example the terminal system structure can be defined in the terminal of .

As illustrated in the application layer can include a Mobile Device Management MDM application and an ELM agent . The Android framework can include an MDM framework . The MDM framework can include an ELM module and the ELM module can include ELM APIs an ELM permission enforcer and an ELM API logger .

The MDM application can perform communication with the MDM server . For example the MDM application can receive at least one of a license key and a security policy from the MDM server . For example the MDM application can be constructed by an MDM vendor not illustrated constructing the MDM server . The MDM vendor not illustrated can control such that the MDM application is installed in the terminal entering the enterprise of . Meanwhile the ELM agent and the MDM framework can be constructed by the administrator of the ELM server .

The MDM application can transfer the received license key to the ELM agent through the ELM framework . The ELM agent can transmit the transferred license key to the ELM server . More specifically the ELM agent can inquire the ELM server as to whether the license key is valid.

The ELM server can judge whether the received license key is valid. For example the ELM server can judge whether a contract with the MDM vendor is valid or whether the contract has been changed. The ELM server can determine based on the judged result whether the license key is valid.

When the license key is valid the ELM server can register the terminal as a terminal that is valid for usage of the MDM solution. The ELM server can transmit an R O for user permission to the ELM agent having transmitted the valid license key. The R O can include a permission list for restriction or approval of the permission.

The ELM agent can output the R O to the MDM framework . The ELM permission enforcer can set permission of the MDM application through analyzing the permission list of the input R O. The MDM application can accordingly reset the API permission for restriction or approval. The MDM application can reset the API permission for the restriction or the approval through adding API permission for approval or API permission for restriction.

For example the MDM application can manage an initial permission list as illustrated in Table 1 based on the security policy received from the MDM server .

Meanwhile the R O received in the ELM agent can include a permission list that restricts the camera related API permission and approves the Wi Fi related API permission. Accordingly the MDM application can manage a permission list reset as illustrated in Table 2.

As described above the terminal according to the related art maintains the initial permission list at it is without resetting the same when the specific application uses the same signature as a platform. On the other hand the terminal according to the present disclosure can reset the initial permission list based on the permission list included in the R O corresponding to the license key. Accordingly the permission for approval can be dynamically changed as reflected in the license key.

In operation S the terminal can install an application for example an Android package APK . The application can include an API list paged from an Android platform. In operation S the terminal can identify whether the application uses the same signature as the platform and when the application uses the same signature as the platform the terminal can control the application to acquire permission that the application requires.

For example the terminal can identify a license key and a security policy from an MDM server and can restrict some permissions based on the security policy.

Meanwhile in operation S the terminal can request an ELM server to identify whether the license key is valid. In operation S the terminal can receive an R O including a permission list from the ELM server.

In operation S the terminal can judge whether permission for approval or restriction has been adjusted by the R O. When it is judged in operation S that the permission list included in the R O has been adjusted differently from initially set permission the terminal can adjust the permission based on the permission list included in the R O and store the adjusted permission in operation S.

Meanwhile in operation S an ELM permission enforcer of the terminal can control such that permission reset by the adjusted permission is acquired. In operation S the terminal can page an MDM API based on the reset permission.

For example in operation S the server can receive a request for the license key from the MDM vendor. The server can receive the request for the license key directly from the MDM vendor or can also receive the request through various methods such as relaying a web portal. An administrator of the server can also manage the license key through a contract with the MDM vendor in the B2B form.

In operation S the server can generate the license key in response to the request and transmit the generated license key to the MDM vendor. As described above the license key can include information on API permission for approval or restriction. Further the server can also transmit the SDK to the MDM vendor.

Meanwhile in operation S the server can receive a request for registration by the license key from the terminal using the MDM solution. The terminal can receive the license key from an MDM server that the MDM vendor has constructed.

The server can judge in operation S whether the license key is valid and in operation S generate an R O to transmit the generated R O to the terminal. The R O can include a permission list. The R O can include the permission list reset differently from an initial permission list.

Referring to in operation S the MDM server can embed a license key by an MDM vendor. In addition in operation S the MDM server can store a security policy established by an administrator. Meanwhile in operation S the MDM server can transmit at least one of the embedded license key and the security policy to a terminal using an MDM solution.

While specific embodiments have been described in the detailed descriptions of the present disclosure it is apparent that various modifications can be carried out without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosure shall not be determined by the above described embodiments and is to be determined by not only the following claims but also their equivalents. It can be appreciated that the embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof. Any such software can be stored for example in a volatile or non volatile storage device such as a ROM a memory such as a RAM a memory chip a memory device or a memory IC or a recordable optical or magnetic medium such as a CD a DVD a magnetic disk or a magnetic tape regardless of its ability to be erased or its ability to be re recorded. Also it will be appreciated that the exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented by a computer or a portable terminal which includes a controller and a memory in which the memory can be an example of a storage medium that is readable by a machine that is suitable for storing one or more programs that include instructions for implementing the exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure. Accordingly the present disclosure includes a program for a code implementing the apparatus and method described in the appended claims of the specification and a machine a computer or the like readable storage medium for storing the program. Moreover such a program as described above can be electronically transferred through an arbitrary medium such as a communication signal transferred through cable or wireless connection and the present disclosure properly includes the things equivalent to that.

Further the device can receive the program from a program providing apparatus connected to the device wirelessly or through a wire and store the received program. The program supply apparatus may include a program that includes instructions to execute the exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure a memory that stores information or the like required for the exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure a communication unit that conducts wired or wireless communication with the electronic apparatus and a controller that transmits a corresponding program to a transmission reception apparatus in response to the request from the electronic apparatus or automatically.

Although the present disclosure has been described with an exemplary embodiment various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art. It is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims.

