---

title: Modified arthropod and method of use
abstract: A modified arthropod, an arthropod-modifying bacterium, and use thereof as an agent for control of diseases transmitted by arthropods, particularly mosquitoes, is provided. More specifically, an isolated arthropod-adapted bacterium capable of modifying one or more biological properties of a mosquito host is provided. The modified arthropod may be characterized as having a shortened life-span, a reduced ability to transmit disease, a reduced susceptibility to a pathogen, a reduced fecundity, and/or a reduced ability to feed from a host, when compared to a corresponding wild-type arthropod.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09090911&OS=09090911&RS=09090911
owner: Monash University
number: 09090911
owner_city: Clayton
owner_country: AU
publication_date: 20140614
---
This patent application is a continuation of copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 817 933 filed Jun. 17 2010 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 187 805 filed Jun. 17 2009 and Australian Patent Application No. 2009222557 filed Oct. 2 2009 all of which are incorporated by reference in their entireties herein.

Incorporated by reference in its entirety herein is a computer readable nucleotide amino acid sequence listing submitted concurrently herewith and identified as follows One 24 988 Byte ASCII Text file named Sequence Listing created on Jun. 14 2014.

This invention relates to arthropods and arthropod transmitted diseases. More particularly this invention relates to a modified arthropod an arthropod modifying bacterium and use thereof as an agent for control of diseases transmitted by arthropods particularly mosquitoes.

Arthropods are a source of or transmit many diseases and conditions in humans and other animals. Some arthropods may simply cause localized irritation of the skin without transmission of disease such as occurs with mites and ticks or by transmission of disease causing pathogens such as arboviruses protozoa bacteria and nematodes. These disease causing pathogens are responsible for a variety of different diseases of humans and other animals including malaria Dengue fever Eastern Equine encephalitis Western Equine encephalitis Venezuelan equine encephalitis Japanese encephalitis Murray Valley encephalitis West Nile fever Yellow fever LaCrosse encephalitis Asian spotted fever Q fever Lymphatic filariasis Elephantiasis Chikungunya fever Ross river fever and Chagas disease.

Most pathogens that are transmitted by mosquitoes share a common property they have to undergo a significant period of development in their insect vector before they can be transmitted to a new host. After a female mosquito ingests an infectious blood meal parasites or arboviruses such as dengue penetrate the mosquito s midgut and replicate in various tissues before infecting the salivary glands where they are transmitted to a new host during subsequent blood feeding. This time period from pathogen ingestion to potential infectivity is termed the extrinsic incubation period EIP and lasts approximately two weeks for both dengue Siler et al. 1926 Watts et al. 1987 and malaria Gilles et al. 2002 . A female mosquito must survive longer than its initial non feeding period usually less than 2 days plus the EIP to successfully contribute to pathogen transmission. Mosquito survival is therefore considered a critical component of a vector population s capacity for pathogen transmission Dye 1992 . Interventions that aim to reduce the daily survivorship of adult mosquitoes such as the spraying of residual insecticides in houses and insecticide treated bednets for malaria control yield large reductions in pathogen transmission rates Masabo et al. 2004 Schellenberg et al. 2001 because of the sensitive relationship between mosquito survival and vectorial capacity Garrett Jones 1964 MacDonald 1957 .

The control of diseases such as dengue primarily targets a domesticated mosquito that prefers to live in and around human habitation Gubler et al. 1997 . With few exceptions dengue management strategies have been complicated by the inability to completely eradicate from urban settings and the ineffective application of long lasting vector control programs Morrison et al. 2008 . This has led to a worldwide resurgence of dengue and highlighted the urgent need for novel and sustainable disease control strategies.

A strain of the obligate intracellular bacterium wMelPop has been described that reduces adult lifespan of its natural fruit fly host Min and Benzer 1997 . are maternally inherited bacteria that use mechanisms such as cytoplasmic incompatibility CI a type of embryonic lethality that results from crosses between infected males with uninfected females to rapidly spread into insect populations Hoffmann and Turelli 1997 .

However life shortening strains do not occur in mosquitoes naturally and experimental transfer of between host species transinfection has lacked success Van Meer and Stouthamer 1999 . In some cases transferred strains can be stable and maternally inherited primarily when is transferred within or between closely related species in a family or genus Boyle et al. 1993 Xi et al. 2005 Zabalou et al. 2004 . In other cases the new infection appears poorly adapted to its new host showing fluctuating infection densities and variable degrees of transovarial transmission. The result is often loss of infection within a few host generations. infections tend to be more susceptible to loss when they have been transferred between phylogenetically distant hosts Kang et al. 2003 Riegler et al. 2004 . Similarly those species that do not naturally harbour have proven refractory to transinfection Curtis and Sinkins 1998 Rigaud et al. 2001 .

Most pathogens require a relatively long incubation period in their arthropod host before they can be transmitted to a new host. Thus it has been proposed that a life shortening bacterium may be used to reduce disease transmission by arthropod hosts that do not naturally harbour

However despite significant efforts researchers have been unable to achieve colonization of in distantly related arthropod species due to the inability of to quickly adapt to new intra cellular environments. To overcome this problem the inventors have identified a need for a modified bacterium that can be easily introduced into populations of disease transmitting arthropod vectors and reduce transmission of pathogens such as dengue virus and malaria.

The invention therefore arises from the inventors unexpected finding that long term serial passage of in an arthropod cell line resulted in the production of an arthropod adapted bacterium that can be successfully transferred into and maintained in an arthropod and populations thereof. Furthermore the inventors surprisingly discovered that arthropods harbouring this arthropod adapted bacterium have a shorter lifespan a reduced fecundity altered feeding behaviour and or are less susceptible to pathogens including viruses fungi worms protozoans and bacteria than their wild type counterparts.

In a first aspect the invention provides an isolated arthropod adapted bacterium capable of modifying one or more biological properties of an arthropod host wherein said arthropod adapted bacterium does not normally colonize inhabit reside in or infect said arthropod host.

In one particularly preferred embodiment said isolated arthropod adapted bacterium is wMelPop CLA Accession Number V14 01108 deposited on May 12 2014 at the National Measurement Institute 1 153 Bertie Street Port Melbourne Victoria Australia .

In a second aspect the invention provides a method of producing an arthropod adapted bacterium capable of modifying one or more biological properties of an arthropod host said method including the step of culturing a bacterium with one or more arthropod cells optionally with one or more differentiating agents to thereby produce said arthropod adapted bacterium wherein said arthropod adapted bacterium does not normally colonize inhabit reside in or infect said arthropod host.

In one particular embodiment the isolated arthropod adapted bacterium of the first aspect or the arthropod adapted bacterium produced according to the method of the second aspect comprises one or more genetic modifications compared to a wild type counterpart.

In certain particular embodiments said one or more genetic modifications correspond to one or more nucleotide sequence deletions insertions substitutions or mutations.

Preferably said arthropod adapted bacterium is cultured outside its native host for at least 6 months.

More preferably said arthropod adapted bacterium is cultured outside its native host between 1.5 to 5 years.

Even more preferably said arthropod adapted bacterium is cultured outside its native host for 2 to 4 years.

In one embodiment the isolated arthropod adapted bacterium of the first aspect or the arthropod adapted bacterium produced according to the method of the second aspect shortens a life span of an arthropod.

In another embodiment the isolated arthropod adapted bacterium of the first aspect or the arthropod adapted bacterium produced according to the method of the second aspect reduces a susceptibility of an arthropod to a pathogen.

In yet another embodiment the isolated arthropod adapted bacterium of the first aspect or the arthropod adapted bacterium produced according to the method of the second aspect reduces a fecundity of an arthropod.

In still another embodiment the isolated arthropod adapted bacterium of the first aspect or the arthropod adapted bacterium produced according to the method of the second aspect reduces a desiccation tolerance of eggs produced by the arthropod.

In still yet another embodiment the isolated arthropod adapted bacterium of the first aspect or the arthropod adapted bacterium produced according to the method of the second aspect reduces the ability of the arthropod to feed from a host.

In a third aspect the invention provides an arthropod comprising the isolated arthropod adapted bacterium of the first aspect or the arthropod adapted bacterium produced according to the method of the second aspect.

Suitably said arthropod adapted bacterium does not normally colonize inhabit reside in or infect said arthropod.

Preferably said arthropod is selected from the group consisting of an insect an arachnid and a crustacean.

In another preferred embodiment said arthropod is a mosquito of the genus selected from the group consisting of and

In one particularly preferred embodiment said arthropod is a mosquito of a species selected from the group consisting of and

In a fourth aspect the invention provides a method of producing an arthropod comprising the isolated arthropod adapted bacterium of the first aspect or the arthropod adapted bacterium produced according to the method of the second aspect.

In one embodiment the arthropod of the third aspect or the arthropod produced according to the method of the fourth aspect has a reduced life span.

Typically according to this embodiment said reduced life span is shorter than an average life span of a wild type of said arthropod.

In another embodiment the arthropod of the third aspect or the arthropod produced according to the method of the fourth aspect has a reduced susceptibility to a pathogen.

Preferably the arthropod of the third aspect or the arthropod produced according to the method of the fourth aspect has improved protection against or resistance to a pathogen compared to a wild type counterpart.

Typically according to this embodiment said pathogen is selected from the group consisting of a virus a fungus a worm a protozoan and a bacterium.

In yet another embodiment the arthropod of the third aspect or the arthropod produced according to the method of the fourth aspect has a reduced fecundity.

In still another embodiment the arthropod of the third aspect or the arthropod produced according to the method of the fourth aspect has a reduced ability to feed from a host.

In a fifth aspect the invention provides a method of modifying an arthropod population said method including the step of introducing the arthropod of the third aspect or the arthropod produced according to the method of the fourth aspect into said arthropod population to thereby modify one or more biological properties of said arthropod population.

In one embodiment of the fifth aspect the invention provides a method of reducing pathogen transmission by an arthropod population said method including the step of introducing the arthropod of the third aspect or the arthropod produced according to the method of the fourth aspect into said arthropod population to thereby reduce decrease or mitigate pathogen transmission by said arthropod population.

In another embodiment of the fifth aspect the invention provides a method of reducing a susceptibility to a pathogen in an arthropod population said method including the step of introducing the arthropod of the third aspect or the arthropod produced according to the method of the fourth aspect into said arthropod population to thereby reduce decrease or mitigate the susceptibility to said pathogen in said arthropod population.

Preferably said pathogen is selected from the group consisting of a virus a fungus a worm a protozoan and a bacterium.

In yet another embodiment of the fifth aspect the invention provides a method of reducing an average life span of an arthropod population said method including the step of introducing the arthropod of the third aspect or the arthropod produced according to the method of the fourth aspect into said arthropod population to thereby reduce lower shorten or decrease said average life span of said arthropod population.

In still another embodiment of the fifth aspect the invention provides a method of reducing a fecundity of an arthropod population said method including the step of introducing the arthropod of the third aspect or the arthropod produced according to the method of the fourth aspect into said arthropod population to thereby reduce lower or decrease said fecundity of said arthropod population.

In still yet another embodiment of the fifth aspect the invention provides a method of reducing an ability of an arthropod population to feed from a host said method including the step of introducing the arthropod of the third aspect or the arthropod produced according to the method of the fourth aspect into said arthropod population to thereby reduce lower or decrease said ability of said arthropod population to feed from a host.

Throughout this specification unless otherwise indicated comprise comprises and comprising are used inclusively rather than exclusively so that a stated integer or group of integers may include one or more other non stated integers or groups of integers.

The present invention has arisen from the inventors unexpected discovery that long term serial passage of a bacterium in an arthropod cell line resulted in the production of an arthropod adapted bacterium that can be successfully transferred into an arthropod which does not naturally harbour . The inventors have also surprisingly found that arthropods harbouring the arthropod adapted bacterium and populations thereof have a shorter life span a reduced fecundity altered feeding behaviour and or a lower susceptibility to pathogens such as viruses fungi worms e.g. nematodes protozoans and bacteria.

This invention therefore provides an arthropod adapted bacterium and an arthropod comprising the same for use in the reduction of arthropod borne diseases such as but not limited to dengue fever malaria and lymphatic filariasis.

For the purposes of this invention by isolated is meant material that has been removed from its natural state or otherwise been subjected to human manipulation. Isolated material may be substantially or essentially free from components that normally accompany it in its natural state or may be manipulated so as to be in an artificial state together with components that normally accompany it in its natural state.

As used herein the term arthropod refers to an invertebrate animal that is characterized by a chitinous exoskeleton and a segmented body with paired jointed appendages e.g. legs or feet . Accordingly an arthropod may be an insect e.g. a mosquito or a fly a crustacean e.g. a prawn a crab or a lobster or an arachnid e.g. a tick or a mite although without limitation thereto. As also used herein the terms arthropod vector or arthropod vector population refer to an arthropod or a population thereof that is capable of transmitting a pathogen from one host to another.

Insects include insects of orders such as Diptera e.g. mosquitoes horseflies midges stableflies and tsetse flies Phthiraptera e.g. lice Siphonaptera e.g. fleas and Hemiptera e.g. bedbugs and triatomine bugs .

An example of an arachnid is a tick or mite e.g of the families and . These can simply cause localized irritation of the skin or transmit pathogens such as bacteria e.g. and and viruses typically Flaviviruses which cause diseases such as Asian spotted fever North American or Rocky Mountain spotted fever American mountain fever or Colorado tick fever Q fever Russian spring summer encephalitis and tick paralysis. Spider mites which are members of the Acari mite family may also spread disease by transferring pathogens e.g. fungus between plants.

An example of a crustacean is a prawn or a crab e.g. of the families and . Most cultured penaeid prawns e.g. and carry and transfer the DNA viruses of the species White Spot Syndrome Baculovirus Complex which cause White Spot Syndrome in crustaceans such as prawns lobsters and crabs.

In one aspect the invention provides an isolated arthropod adapted bacterium capable of modifying one or more biological properties of an arthropod host.

By arthropod adapted bacterium is meant a bacterium e.g. of the genus that has been taken out of its native host environment and adapted to a new arthropod host environment in which environment said bacterium does not naturally reside. Accordingly a non limiting example of an arthropod adapted bacterium is a bacterium that has been isolated from its native host e.g. and adapted to a new host e.g. or .

It will be appreciated that the term arthropod adapted bacterium encompasses any bacterium that is capable of colonizing infecting or residing in an arthropod host within which it does not normally reside.

In another embodiment said isolated arthropod adapted bacterium reduces a susceptibility of an arthropod to a pathogen.

As used herein an arthropod that has a reduced susceptibility to a pathogen is less likely to become infected by carry and or transmit a pathogen than a wild type counterpart.

Non limiting examples of virus pathogens include arboviruses such as Alphaviruses e.g. Chikungunya virus Eastern Equine Encephalitis virus Western Equine Encephalitis virus Flaviviruses e.g. dengue virus West Nile virus Yellow Fever virus and Bunyaviruses e.g. La Crosse virus Rift Valley fever virus Colorado tick fever virus .

Non limiting examples of worm pathogens include nematodes inclusive of filarial nematodes such as and

It will be appreciated that non limiting examples of pathogenic bacteria include spirochetes e.g. actinomycetes e.g. mycoplasmas Rickettsias Gram negative aerobic rods Gram negative aerobic cocci Gram negatively facultatively anaerobic rods e.g. and Gram negative cocci Gram negative coccobacilli Gram positive cocci e.g. and endospore forming rods and endospore forming cocci.

In yet another embodiment said isolated arthropod adapted bacterium introduces a reproductive abnormality in an arthropod host such as but not limited to parthenogenesis feminization male killing and cytoplasmic incompatibility CI .

Typically according to this embodiment said reproductive abnormality reduces a fecundity within an arthropod vector population.

As used herein the term fecundity refers to the ability of an arthropod or a population thereof to reproduce.

In another aspect the invention provides a method of producing an arthropod adapted bacterium capable of modifying one or more biological properties of an arthropod host said method including the step of culturing a bacterium with one or more arthropod cells optionally with one or more differentiating agents to thereby produce said arthropod adapted bacterium.

Suitably said arthropod adapted bacterium does not normally colonize inhabit reside in or infect said arthropod host.

Preferably said arthropod adapted bacterium is cultured outside its native host for at least 6 months.

More preferably said arthropod adapted bacterium is cultured outside its native host between 1.5 to 5 years.

Accordingly it will be appreciated that said arthropod may be cultured outside its native host for about 2 years 2.5 years 3 years 3.5 years 4 years. 4.5 years and up to about 5 years.

Even more preferably said arthropod adapted bacterium is cultured outside its native host for 2 to 4 years.

In one embodiment said one or more arthropod cells are of an arthropod of the genus selected from the group consisting of and

In another embodiment said one or more arthropod cells are of an arthropod of a species selected from the group consisting of and

Accordingly a non limiting exemplary method of producing the arthropod adapted bacterium according to this aspect comprises the steps of i isolating a bacterium e.g. wMelPop from an arthropod host e.g. ii establishing the isolated bacterium in a first culture of one or more arthropod cells e.g. of a species of iii culturing the first culture for a period of time e.g. 2 3 years iv isolating the bacterium from the first culture v introducing the bacterium from the first culture into a second culture of one or more arthropod cells e.g. of a species of or and vi culturing the second culture for a period of time e.g. 3 12 months to thereby produce the arthropod adapted bacterium e.g. wMelPop CLA according to this aspect.

A skilled person will appreciate that the bacterium which is to be adapted to a new arthropod host may be isolated from an arthropod during different developmental stages of their life cycle and from different tissues such as an embryo a cytoplasm or a hemolymph although without limitation thereto.

Non limiting methods for introducing an isolated bacterium into an uninfected arthropod host or cells thereof may be selected from the group consisting of a shell vial technique and a microinjection.

In yet another embodiment the arthropod adapted bacterium reduces the ability of an arthropod to feed from a host.

Typically according to this embodiment the arthropod e.g. a mosquito may have a reduced ability to obtain ingest or otherwise acquire blood from an arthropod host e.g. a human compared to a corresponding wild type arthropod.

In some embodiments the arthropod adapted bacterium e.g. wMelPop CLA comprises one or more genetic modifications when compared to a corresponding wild type counterpart e.g. wMelPop .

Such genetic modifications may be selected from the group consisting of a nucleotide sequence insertion a deletion a single nucleotide polymorphism SNP a mutation a frame shift a chromosomal rearrangement or a transposition although without limitation thereto.

In some embodiments said genetic modifications relate to the modification of one or more nucleotide sequences as set forth in Table 7.

In another aspect the invention provides an arthropod comprising the isolated arthropod adapted bacterium.

An arthropod comprising the isolated arthropod adapted bacterium of the aforementioned aspects may be referred to as a modified arthropod .

Suitably a wild type of said modified arthropod is an arthropod vector that carries and transfers a pathogen from one host to another.

A host may be any animal or plant upon which an arthropod feeds and or to which an arthropod is capable of transmitting a disease causing pathogen. Non limiting examples of hosts are plants e.g. flowers vegetables fruits and crops mammals such as humans domesticated pets e.g. dogs and cats wild animals e.g. monkeys rodents and wild cats livestock animals e.g. sheep pigs cattle and horses avians such as poultry e.g. chickens turkeys and ducks and other animals such as crustaceans e.g. prawns and lobsters .

It will be appreciated that an arthropod vector may act as a carrier of a pathogen that is harmful to a host e.g. a human and not to the arthropod vector itself.

A non limiting example of vector borne pathogen transmission is by blood feeding arthropods e.g. mosquitoes . The pathogen e.g. a dengue virus multiplies within the arthropod vector and the pathogen is transmitted from the arthropod vector to an animal host e.g. a human when the arthropod takes a blood meal. Mechanical transmission of pathogens may occur when arthropods physically carry pathogens from one place or host to another usually on body parts.

It will also be appreciated that an arthropod vector may transmit disease within an arthropod group. A non limiting example is the transmission of the viral pathogens that cause White Spot Syndrome in crustaceans from one arthropod e.g. a prawn to another.

An arthropod may also facilitate pathogen transmission between plants. A non limiting example is the transfer of yeast pathogens to grapes by mites.

While in certain embodiments arthropod adapted bacteria may be useful for creating modified arthropod vectors e.g. mosquitoes having reduced capacity to transmit disease causing pathogens e.g. malaria in other embodiments the invention provides arthropods that have beneficial traits or uses which are enhanced or improved by arthropod adapted bacteria. Non limiting examples include insects such as honey bees and crustaceans such as prawns lobsters and crabs having reduced susceptibility to pathogens.

Preferably said arthropod is selected from the group consisting of an insect an arachnid and a crustacean.

As used herein mosquito and mosquitoes include insects of the family . Preferably mosquitoes are of the sub families and . Even more preferably mosquitoes are capable of transmitting disease causing pathogens including viruses protozoa worms e.g. nematodes and bacteria. Non limiting examples include species of the genus which transmit malaria pathogens species of the genus and species of the genus e.g. and which transmit nematode worm pathogens arbovirus pathogens such as Alphaviruses e.g. Eastern Equine encephalitis Western Equine encephalitis Venezuelan equine encephalitis pathogens that cause diseases such as Japanese encephalitis Murray Valley Encephalitis West Nile fever Yellow fever Dengue fever and Bunyavirus pathogens that cause diseases such as LaCrosse encephalitis Rift Valley Fever and Colorado tick fever although without limitation thereto. Non limiting examples of worm pathogens include nematodes e.g. filarial nematodes such as or which may be transmitted by mosquitoes.

Non limiting examples of pathogens that may be transmitted by are dengue virus Yellow fever virus Chikungunya virus and heartworm .

Examples of pathogens that may be transmitted by include West Nile Virus Yellow fever virus St. Louis Encephalitis dengue virus and Chikungunya fever although without limitation thereto.

Pathogens frequently transmitted by the mosquito vector include malaria parasites of the genus such as but not limited to and

In one particularly preferred embodiment said arthropod is a mosquito of the genus selected from the group consisting of and

In another particularly preferred embodiment said arthropod is a mosquito of a species selected from the group consisting of and

Typically according to this embodiment said pathogen is selected from the group consisting of a virus a fungus a protozoan a nematode and a bacterium.

Typically according to this embodiment said reduced life span is shorter than an average life span of a wild type of said modified arthropod. Accordingly said reduced life span may be 10 20 30 40 50 or up to 80 shorter than the average life span of a wild type of said arthropod.

It will be appreciated that the modified arthropod may be less likely to transmit a pathogen than its wild type counterpart since most pathogens have to undergo a relatively long incubation period in an arthropod vector before they can be transmitted to a new host.

In one particular embodiment said reduced fecundity may result in a loss of progeny following a cross between a modified male arthropod and a wild type female arthropod.

In another particular embodiment the modified arthropod e.g. a mosquito may be used in a method for controlling the growth of an arthropod population during the dry period since eggs from a modified arthropod e.g. a female mosquito have a reduced tolerance to desiccation and a shorter life span compared to eggs from a wild type arthropod.

As used herein reduced tolerance to desiccation refers to a reduced diminished or decreased ability of eggs from an arthropod to withstand or endure extreme dryness or drought like conditions.

According to this particular embodiment the life span of eggs from a modified arthropod e.g. a mosquito may be at least 4 weeks at least 8 weeks at least 12 weeks and up to at least 18 weeks shorter than eggs from said wild type arthropod.

In another aspect the invention provides a method of modifying an arthropod population said method including the step of introducing the modified arthropod into said arthropod population to thereby modify one or more biological properties of said arthropod population.

In one embodiment this aspect provides a method of mitigating reducing or decreasing pathogen transmission by said arthropod population.

In another embodiment this aspect provides a method of reducing mitigating or decreasing a susceptibility to a pathogen in said arthropod population.

Typically according to this embodiment said pathogen is selected from the group consisting of a virus a fungus a worm a protozoan and a bacterium.

In another particular embodiment said pathogen is of a species selected from the group consisting of and

Accordingly in a non limiting example an arthropod population e.g. a population of comprising one or more modified arthropods may have a reduced susceptibility to a pathogen e.g. a malaria parasite or a dengue virus compared to a corresponding wild type arthropod population.

In yet another embodiment this aspect of the invention provides a method of reducing lowering shortening or decreasing an average life span of said arthropod population.

It will be appreciated that an arthropod population with a reduced average life span compared to a corresponding wild type arthropod population may have a reduced capacity to transmit pathogens such as viruses fungi worms parasites and bacteria since a pathogen must undergo a significant period of development in their arthropod vector before it can be transmitted to a new host. Accordingly a reduction of the average life span of a disease transmitting mosquito population may help reduce transmission of vector borne diseases such as but not limited to malaria dengue fever and lymphatic filariasis.

In yet another embodiment this aspect of the invention provides a method of reducing lowering or decreasing an average fecundity of said arthropod population.

In one particular embodiment said reduced average fecundity results in a loss of progeny following a cross between a modified male arthropod and a wild type female arthropod.

In another particular embodiment said reduced average fecundity results in a reduced life span of eggs from a modified female arthropod.

In still yet another embodiment this aspect of the invention provides a method of reducing an ability of an arthropod population to feed from a host.

It will also be appreciated that the methods of this aspect may be used together with other agents that reduce an average life span of an arthropod population. Such agents include entomopathogenic fungi and mosquito densoviruses although without limitation thereto.

So that the invention may be fully understood and put into practical effect the skilled reader is directed to the following non limiting detailed Examples.

Three cell lines were used in this study i Aa23.T derived from embryos O Neill et al. 1997 ii RML 12 derived from larvae C. E. Yunker personal communication Kuno 1983 and iii MOS 55 derived from larvae Marhoul and Pudney 1972 . All these cell lines were confirmed as negative for infection prior to this study by PCR as outlined below. Aa23.T and RML 12 cell lines were maintained in growth medium consisting of equal volumes of Mitsuhashi Maramorosch Mitsuhashi and Maramorosch 1964 1 mM CaCl 0.2 mM MgCl 2.7 mM KCl 120 mM NaCl 1.4 mM NaHCO 1.3 mM NaHPO 22 mM D glucose 6.5 g L lactalbumin hydrolysate and 5.0 g L yeast extract and Schneider s Insect Medium Sigma Aldrich St Louis Mo. supplemented with 10 heat inactivated fetal bovine serum HIFBS . MOS 55 was maintained in Schneider s Insect Medium supplemented with 20 HIFBS. Both media also contained penicillin 50 U mL and streptomycin 50 g mL . For routine maintenance cells were grown in 25 cmplastic tissue culture flasks containing 5 mL of medium at 26 C. without COincubation. Cells were passed every 3 4 days by vigorous shaking of the flask and seeding a new flask with 20 of the resuspended cells with 5 mL fresh media.

wMelPop was purified from wembryos Min and Benzer 1997 and established in an uninfected cell line Aa23.T using the shell vial technique Dobson et al. 2002 . Embryos were collected every 45 min on molasses agar plates covered with live yeast paste and dechorionated using freshly prepared 50 diluted bleach White King Victoria Australia 2.1 sodium hypochlorite final concentration for 2 min. Embryos were then rinsed several times in sterile dHO immersed in 70 ethanol for 15 sec and rinsed three times in sterile PBS pH 7.4. Approximately 20 mg of surface sterilized embryos 50 100 L of packed embryos were then transferred to a mini Dounce tissue homogenizer Wheaton USA and suspended in 400 L of PBS. Embryos were then homogenized for 2 3 min with a tight pestle. 200 L of homogenate was then overlaid separately onto two 80 confluent wells of Aa23.T cells prepared 24 hr earlier in a 12 well cell culture plate. The plate was then centrifuged at 2000 g for 1 hr at 15 C. Cells were then incubated at 26 C. for 24 hr and the contents of each well transferred to individual 25 cmcell culture flasks with 5 mL of fresh media. After a confluent monolayer had formed cells were split 1 5 and passaged as usual.

To establish the infection in RML 12 and MOS 55 cell lines wMelPop was purified from Aa23 cells as described below and introduced into these cell lines using the shell vial technique.

To monitor infection status of cells DNA was extracted from cultures as previously described Dobson et al. 2002 and amplified using the general surface protein wsp primers 81F and 691R or the diagnostic wsp primer set for wMelPop 308F and 691R Zhou et al. 1998 . To confirm the presence of wMelPop in these three cell lines fragments of the 16S rRNA and wsp gene were PCR amplified cloned and sequenced. DNA was extracted from cells using a DNeasy Tissue kit Qiagen and amplified as previously described using the diagnostic primers 99F and 994R for the 16S rRNA gene O Neill et al. 1992 and the primers 81F and 691R for the wsp gene Zhou et al. 1998 . Total DNA from cell lines was also PCR amplified using the general eubacterial 16S rRNA primers 10F 1507R Mateos et al. 2006 and 968F R1401R Nubel et al. 1996 . The resulting PCR products were cloned into the pGEM T easy vector Promega and four clones from each infected cell line randomly picked and sequenced for each product. The presence of wMelPop and no other contaminating bacteria in cell lines was verified by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis DGGE using a general primer set targeting eubacterial 16S rRNA genes F 968 GC and R 1401 Nubel et al. 1996 using previously described methods Pittman et al. 2008 .

Insect cells were washed in PBS and rapidly fixed with microwave processing in 2.5 glutaraldehyde solution containing 0.1 CaCland 1 sucrose in 0.1 M Na cacodylate enrobed in 2 agarose and postfixed in 1 osmium tetroxide in 0.1 M Na cacodylate buffer. Samples were then dehydrated in a sequence of increasing ethanol concentration and in a final step in acetone 100 and then embedded in epoxy resin Epon 812 using microwave processing Feinberg et al. 2001 O Neill et al. 1997 . Ultra thin sections 50 80 nm prepared on a Leica Ultracut T ultramicrotome Leica Inc. were then placed on copper grids and stained with 2 uranyl acetate followed by Reynolds lead citrate. The sections were then examined in a JEOL 1010 electron microscope operated at 80 kV.

Insect cells from the confluent monolayers of two 175 cmflasks were harvested and centrifuged in 50 mL conical flasks at 1000 g for 5 min at 4 C. and the cell culture media discarded. The cellular pellet was then washed in SPG buffer 218 mM sucrose 3.8 mM KHPO 7.2 mM KHPO and 4.9 mM L glutamate pH 7.2 and the centrifugation and wash steps repeated. After washing the pellet was resuspended in 5 mL SPG and sonicated twice on ice for 10 sec at 12.5 W with a Fisher Scientific model 60 Sonic Dismembranator 3 mm microtip diameter to lyse the cells. This suspension was then centrifuged at 1 000 g for 5 min at 4 C. to pellet cellular debris. The supernatant was then passed through a 5 M Acrodisc syringe filter Pall Life Sciences and the filtrate collected in 1.5 mL microcentrifuge tubes. These were then centrifuged at 12 000 g for 15 min at 4 C. to pellet . The supernatant was then discarded pellets were combined and resuspended in 400 L SPG buffer and centrifuged at 300 g for 5 min to remove any remaining debris Xi and Dobson 2005 . The supernatant was then transferred into a clean tube and stored on ice until used for injection 

Purified from RML 12 was microinjected into embryos of the line w.T Min and Benzer 1997 . Prior to microinjection this line was confirmed to be free of by PCR using primers specific for the wMelPop IS5 repeat IS5 FWD1 5 GTATCCAACAGATCTAAGC SEQ ID NO 1 and IS5 REV1 5 ATAACCCTACTCATAGCTAG SEQ ID NO 2 . IS5 is a multi copy insertion element and as such a much more sensitive target for determining infection status than single copy genes such as wsp. For microinjection early pre blastoderm stage embryos were collected every 30 min using molasses agar plates with live yeast paste. Purified was microinjected into the posterior pole of embryos within 30 min of collection using standard techniques Ashburner 1989 Boyle et al. 1993 Xi and Dobson 2005 . After hatching larvae were transferred to a standard cornmeal based rearing medium Ashburner and Roote 2000 and incubated at 24 C.

Virgin females resulting from injected embryos generation 0 G0 were placed in vials with three w.T males to establish isofemale lines. After egg laying G0 females were sacrificed and DNA extracted using the Holmes Bonner DNA extraction protocol Holmes and Bonner 1973 . was detected in samples using PCR primers specific for the IS5 repeat element in wMelPop. The quality of the insect DNA was assessed using the primer set 12SA1 and 12SB1 that amplifies the 12S ribosomal RNA gene O Neill et al. 1992 . Amplification of DNA was carried out in a 20 L reaction volume which included 2.0 L of 10 buffer New England Biolabs Beverly Mass. 25 M of dNTPs 0.5 M of forward and reverse primer 0.75 U of Taq polymerase New England Biolabs Beverly Mass. and 1.0 L of DNA template. PCR conditions were as follows denaturation at 94 C. for 3 min 35 cycles of denaturation at 94 C. for 30 sec annealing at 55 C. for 30 secs and extension at 72 C. for 1 min followed by a final 10 min extension step at 72 C.

To select for a stable infection only offspring from females that tested positive for by PCR screening were used as parental stock. Each generation 25 50 females from each line were isolated as virgins placed into individual vials and outcrossed to three w.T males. Females that tested negative for were discarded along with their progeny. This selection regime was maintained for three generations after which the lines were closed. The two resulting lines wMelPopCLA 1 and wMelPopCLA 2 were then monitored periodically by PCR to confirm infection status. The selection regime was again repeated at Gdue to fluctuations in infection frequencies in both lines.

The lifespan of wMelPopCLA 1 wMelPopCLA 2 and wMelPop lines was compared to tetracycline cured derivatives of each line created by the addition of tetracycline into the adult diet 3 mg mL according to standard methods Hoffmann et al. 1986 . Treated flies were reared on tetracycline for two generations and then transferred to a normal diet for a minimum of five generations before being used in experiments. To reduce genetic drift effects that may have occurred in these lines during tetracycline treatment 100 females from each fly line including infected lines were backcrossed with 100 males from the same w.T stock line and the progeny combined to form the next generation. This was repeated for five generations G G . Longevity assays were then conducted at G Gand G. To control for any crowding effects or size variability the larval density of each stock bottle used to obtain flies was standardized 200 larvae bottle prior to longevity assays. Stock bottles were kept at 24 C. until adult eclosion 9 10 days later when flies were sexed as virgins and separated. In each assay six vials of 20 flies for each sex were maintained at 29 C. in standard cornmeal food vials without additional live yeast. Each day the number of new deaths were recorded. Flies were moved to fresh food vials every five days. Survival curves for the various treatment groups were compared using a mixed effects Cox Proportional Hazard coxme model of survival analysis using the kinship package of the R suite of statistical software www.r project.org .

CI tests were conducted at G36 and G38 post transinfection using the previously backcrossed lines. To standardize rearing conditions for CI tests fly stock bottles were grown under low density conditions n 150 200 at 24 C. with a 12 hr light dark cycle. To obtain offspring for CI crosses stock bottles were seeded with a set density of 200 eggs per 40 mL of diet. After eclosion flies were sexed and separated as virgins and aged until CI tests. Male flies were collected on day 2 of emergence and were used within 24 hr of eclosion Reynolds et al. 2003 Yamada et al. 2007 . The female flies used were 5 7 days old. For each cross single mating pairs n 40 were introduced to plastic bottles with molasses plate lids. Pairs were given 24 hr to mate then the males were removed and the females allowed to lay eggs. Eggs were collected every 24 hr on molasses agar plates dotted with live yeast suspension for three days. Females that laid 

To examine if the density of in had changed after long term serial passage in mosquito cell lines infection densities were monitored in head tissues of wflies carrying the wMelPopCLA 1 wMelPopCLA 2 or wMelPop strain over their lifespan using quantitative PCR qPCR . Heads were selected for qPCR as wMelPop infection densities had previously been shown to rapidly increase in nervous tissue with adult age McGraw et al. 2002 Min and Benzer 1997 . Density of the closely related non virulent strain wMel was also examined after introgression for three generations from ywinto the wgenetic background. qPCR assays were conducted at Gpost transinfection. Flies reared as described for lifespan assays were collected at four day intervals from 4 32 days until all the flies in a line were dead and stored at 80 C. before analysis. Total DNA was extracted from dissected head tissues using the DNeasy tissue kit protocol Qiagen . To estimate the relative abundance of in each sample we compared abundance of the single copy ankyrin repeat gene WD0550 to the single copy gene Act88F. The following primers were used to amplify a 74 bp amplicon from WD0550 For 5 CAGGAGTTGCTGTGGGTATATTAGC SEQ ID NO 3 and Rev 5 TGCAGGTAATGCAGTAGCGTAAA SEQ ID NO 4 and a 78 bp amplicon from Act88F For 5 ATCGAGCACGGCATCATCAC SEQ ID NO 5 and Rev 5 CACGCGCAGCTCGTTGTA SEQ ID NO 6 . 12 biological replicates were examined per time point for each treatment. For each sample qPCR amplification of DNA was performed in triplicate using a Rotor Gene 6000 Corbett Research Australia . Amplification was carried out in a 10 L reaction volume which included 5 L Platinum SYBR Green I Supermix Invitrogen CA 1 M of forward and reverse primer and 1 ng DNA template. The PCR conditions were 50 C. for 2 min 95 C. for 2 min 40 cycles of 95 C. for 5 sec 60 C. for 5 sec and 72 C. for 10 sec followed by a melt curve from 67 C. to 95 C. A standard calibrator was used to normalise between qPCR runs and the specificity of PCR products was determined by melt curve analysis. Crossing threshold C and amplification efficiency values for each sample were calculated using Corbett Rotor Gene Version 1.7.75 software. The relative abundance of in each sample was then determined using the method discussed by Pfaffl Pfaffl 2001 . Regression analysis was used to detect trends in density of over the lifetime of individual fly lines. ANCOVA was then employed to examine the relationship between density and the covariates age and strain. All abundance data were log transformed prior to analysis. A Bonferroni correction was used to compensate for multiple comparisons.

Several initial attempts to establish wMelPop in the embryonic cell line Aa23 were unsuccessful. Typically infection was lost after several passages or lines were discontinued due to a complete loss of confluence or growth of mosquito cells. This situation mirrors that observed when wMelPop purified from is injected into mosquitoes with large fluctuations in infection density eventually leading to loss of infection EAM and SLO unpublished data . In total only 2 out of 68 3 independent attempts to establish the wMelPop infection in Aa23 cells were successful.

Once established in Aa23 wMelPop was serially passaged for 237 passages 2.5 years before being transferred to the cell line RML 12 and the cell line MOS 55. Stable establishment of wMelPop in these two cell lines occurred much more easily than the initial infection of Aa23 with 2 out of 2 independent attempts for each cell line forming stable wMelPop infections. Partial sequences of the 16S rRNA and wsp genes from the three cell lines used were all identical to the sequence from wMelPop confirming that infections were not the result of contamination with other strains. Infection in mosquito cells was also confirmed using transmission electron microscopy TEM . TEM micrographs of the three infected mosquito cell lines show that representative cells from each line were heavily infected by wMelPop . wMelPop was purified from the RML 12 cell line and re introduced back into its native host w that had been previously cured of its natural wMelPop infection by tetracycline treatment. At the time of re introduction wMelPop had been maintained for over 3 years outside its native host 237 passages in Aa23 and 60 passages in RML 12 cell lines. In total 446 embryos were microinjected giving rise to 108 Glarvae 24 hatch . All 10 surviving Gfemales were PCR positive for . Of these 8 produced offspring and 2 produced PCR positive Gisofemale lines. These two independent isofemale lines were named wMelPopCLA 1 and wMelPopCLA 2 wMelPop Cell Line Adapted .

The infection frequency in wMelPopCLA lines was then monitored periodically over time . Both wMelPopCLA lines were initially observed to display variable maternal transmission rates in the original host reflected in fluctuating infection frequencies in the absence of experimental selection. During an initial period of experimental selection for increased infection G Gpost transinfection frequencies as detected by PCR were observed to increase in both wMelPopCLA 1 58 to 87 and wMelPopCLA 2 55 to 100 . In the absence of experimental selection from Gonwards infection frequencies in both lines initially were stable or fluctuated but then rapidly decreased such that by Gpost transinfection only 32 of wMelPopCLA 1 and 24 of wMelPopCLA 2 individuals remained infected. Selection was repeated again at Gand after one additional generation infection frequencies in both lines moved to 100 and remained fixed for infection to Gwhen last assayed.

To assess the effect of continuous cell line culture on the ability of this strain to colonize we compared infection densities in flies that contained wMelPopCLA with those carrying the original wMelPop infection by qPCR. Since it is known that wMelPop densities increase rapidly in adult flies when held at 29 C. we assessed densities across the adult lifespan. As populations of flies aged densities in head tissue rapidly increased in wMelPop infected flies . The density of also increased in wMelPopCLA 1 and wMelPopCLA 2 infected flies as they aged although these increases were noticeably less than wMelPop. densities were roughly four fold higher in wMelPop infected flies when compared to wMelPopCLA 1 or wMelPopCLA 2 infected flies at day 12 post emergence. Flies infected with the non life shortening wMel strain had the lowest infection which only increased slightly over the lifespan of flies. Overall there was a significant effect of age and strain on density F 41.92 P

To test whether the ability of wMelPop to induce the life shortening phenotype had changed during long term serial passage we conducted a series of longevity assays at G Gand Gpost transinfection. For these experiments the survival of infected flies from wMelPopCLA 1 wMelPopCLA 2 and wMelPop lines was compared with uninfected tetracycline treated lines of each strain at 29 C. Survival curves for males and females of each treatment group were measured independently. In all assays male and female flies from the wMelPop infected line demonstrated the most pronounced lifespan reduction when compared to flies from the wMelPop CLA lines and tetracycline treated controls . The lifespan of wMelPopCLA 1 and wMelPopCLA 2 lines appeared intermediate relative to wMelPop but were shortened relative to tetracycline treated controls. For example at Gpost transinfection the mean time to death SE for wMelPop females 9.8 0.1 days was noticeably shorter than that of wMelPopCLA 1 females 22.2 0.3 days or wMelPopCLA 2 females 23.4 0.3 days . Mean time to death was increased for tetracycline treated control lines with wMelPop.T females 32.1 0.5 days wMelPopCLA 1.T females 34.6 0.5 days and wMelPopCLA 2.T females 33.4 0.6 days all having extended lifespan relative to infected counterparts. For females the proportional hazard of death associated with carrying infection was significantly greater for individuals with wMelPop relative risk ratio 135.7 95 confidence interval 40.3 456.5 compared to those either carrying wMelPopCLA 1 relative risk ratio 30.0 95 CI 15.4 58.5 or wMelPopCLA 2 relative risk ratio 17.7 95 CI 10.5 30.7 P

In order to examine effects of long term cell culture on CI expression we established test crosses between uninfected and infected flies and examined hatch rates of the resulting eggs. Results from incompatible test crosses indicated that wMelPop.T females mated with wMelPop males produced embryos with a mean hatch rate of 24 which was significantly lower than the same cross with wMelPopCLA 1 males or wMelPopCLA 2 males Mann Whitney P

The naturally uninfected JCU strain of was established from eggs that were field collected from Cairns Queensland Australia in 2005. For routine maintenance eggs were hatched under vacuum for 30 min and larvae reared at a set density of 150 larvae in 3 L of distilled water in plastic trays 30 40 8 cm . Larvae were fed with 150 mg tablet fish food per pan per day Tetramin Tropical Tablets Tetra Germany until pupation. Adult mosquitoes were maintained in screened 30 30 30 cm cages enclosed within transparent plastic bags with damp cotton wool to maintain elevated humidity 25 1 C. 80 relative humidity RH 12 12 h light dark . Adults were provided with constant access to 10 sucrose solution and females 5 day old supplied with a human blood source for egg production. PGYP1 and PGYP2 lines were maintained continuously without prolonged desiccation of eggs.

Methods used for embryo injections were based upon those successfully used for the transfer of to both and Example 1 Xi et al. 2005 . To collect eggs for microinjection approximately ten gravid JCU females 5 days post blood meal were placed in a vial with a wet filter paper funnel and the vial moved to a dark place to promote oviposition. Embryos were collected after allowing females to oviposit for 90 min. Pre blastoderm stage embryos grey in colour Lobo et al. 2006 were aligned on double sided tape Scotch 665 St. Paul Minn. briefly desiccated and covered with water saturated halocarbon 700 oil Sigma Aldrich Xi et al. 2005 . Embryos were then microinjected in the posterior pole with wMelPop purified as previously described from the cell line RML 12 see Example 1 using an IM 200 micro injector Narishige Tokyo Japan . Microinjection needles were prepared from borosilicate microcapillaries 30 0038 Harvard Apparatus Kent UK using a PC 10 micropipette puller Narishige Tokyo Japan . After injection embryos were incubated at 80 RH and 25 C. for approximately 40 min after which time excess oil was removed and embryos transferred to wet filter paper. Embryos were then allowed to develop for 4 5 days before being hatched and reared to adulthood using the standard maintenance procedures outlined above.

Females G resulting from microinjected embryos were isolated as pupae to assure virginity and subsequently mated with JCU males. Following blood feeding and oviposition Gfemales were sacrificed and DNA extracted using the DNeasy protocol Qiagen . was detected in samples using PCR primers specific for the IS5 repeat element in wMelPop see Example 1 . Gfemales that tested negative for were discarded along with their progeny. Offspring from females that tested positive for by PCR screening were used as parental stock to select for stable infections. PGYP 1 females were outcrossed with JCU males for three generations G G after which time this line was closed and infected females and males allowed to interbreed. Typically 50 JCU males and 50 virgin PGYP1 females were used in an outcross. Experimental selection to increase infection frequencies was applied to this line from G G . In the PGYP2 line females were outcrossed with JCU males for five generations G G after which time the line was closed. Experimental selection to increase infection frequency was applied to the PGYP2 line from G G and subsequently for one generation at G .

PGYP1 and PGYP2 lines were cleared of wMelPop infection at Gand Grespectively by introducing a 1 mg ml tetracycline solution final concentration dissolved in 10 sucrose into adult cages Dobson and Rattanadechakul 2001 . Lines were treated with tetracycline for two generations with a 14 day course of tetracycline and then allowed to recover for at least two generations before being used in experiments. Tetracycline treated lines were confirmed to be cured of wMelPop by PCR as described above. The tetracycline cleared mosquito strains designated PGYP1.tet and PGYP2.tet were also re colonized with resident gut microflora by adding 100 ml water used to rear untreated JCU larvae to the larval water of treated lines for two generations after tetracycline treatment had ceased.

Three different experimental designs were used for lifespan assays First the lifespan of GPGYP 1 mosquitoes was compared with those from the naturally uninfected JCU strain at two different temperatures. For these assays larvae were hatched and reared at 25 C. or 30 C. using the standard method described above. After emergence adult mosquitoes were maintained in 2.2 L plastic buckets at their treatment temperature with 80 RH and a 12 12 h light dark cycle in a controlled growth chamber Model 620RHS Contherm Scientific New Zealand . For each strain at each temperature six buckets of 50 mosquitoes 25 of each sex were maintained and checked daily. Cotton balls soaked in 2 sucrose solution as a carbohydrate source were placed inside each cage and changed daily. Second the lifespan of GPGYP1 and JCU mosquitoes was compared under fluctuating abiotic conditions designed to simulate a summer day in Cairns North Queensland Australia. Mosquitoes were exposed to a diurnal cycle of 12 h light 32 C. and 50 RH and a nocturnal cycle 12 h dark 25 C. and 80 RH in a controlled growth chamber as above. For this experiment a cohort of 300 adult mosquitoes 150 of each sex from each strain were maintained in 30 30 30 cm cages. A sugar cube suspended 10 cm below the top of each cage was provided to necessitate flight to obtain a carbohydrate source. A human blood meal was provided to females in each cage daily for 15 min in addition to a water filled cup lined with filter paper as an oviposition substrate. Third larger lifespan assays were conducted to compare survivorship of PGYP1 PGYP2 JCU and tetracycline cleared strains. These assays were conducted at Gand Gfor PGYP1 and PGYP2 lines respectively. For each strain three replicate 30 30 30 cm cages of 200 mosquitoes 100 of each sex were maintained at 25 1 C. 70 90 RH 12 12 h light dark in a temperature controlled insectary with 2 sucrose changed daily. For all three classes of experiments the number of new deaths was recorded each day until all mosquitoes in the cages were dead. Mosquito survival was analysed using Kaplan Meier Survival analysis and log rank tests were used to determine the equality of the survival distributions between treatments.

Mass crosses were conducted between 35 virgin individuals 3 d old of each sex from GPGYP1 and JCU strains GPGYP1 and PGYP1.tet and GPGYP2 and PGYP2.tet strains to assess CI levels. Groups were allowed to mate for 2 days before females were blood fed and isolated individually for oviposition. Eggs were hatched 120 hours after oviposition by submersion in nutrient infused deoxygenated water 75 mg Tetramin L for 48 hr. To hatch any remaining eggs egg papers were dried briefly and then resubmerged for a further 5 days before the final numbers of hatched larvae were recorded. All females used in crosses were checked for insemination by dissection of spermathecae followed by direct observation of sperm by light microscopy. CI expression was determined by comparing the percentage of hatched eggs from each of the crosses. Statistical significance of hatch rates for various crosses was determined using a Mann Whitney U Test. A Bonferroni correction was used to compensate for multiple comparisons. To examine the role of male age on CI virgin GPGYP1 and PGYP1.tet males were aged to 3 10 and 17 d old prior to mating with 3 d old PGYP1.tet virgin females.

The proportion of infected progeny derived from the first and third reproductive cycles of GPGYP1 females was assessed to provide an estimate of maternal transmission over lifespan. Cohorts of virgin PGYP1 females and uninfected wild type JCU males were mass mated. Five days after mating females were blood fed and 72 96 hour post blood meal eggs were collected for three days. PGYP1 females were 9 days old at the time of oviposition for the first cycle and 23 days old for the third cycle. After development eggs were hatched and DNA extracted from larval offspring using the DNeasy protocol Qiagen . In total 515 larvae collected from 31 females 17 larvae per female and 527 larvae collected from five cohorts of 20 females 105 larvae per cohort were screened from the first and third reproductive cycles respectively. To establish the presence or absence of PCR analysis was performed on individual larvae using IS5 repeat primers as previously described see Example 1 . To ensure that negative results were not a result of low quality DNA template samples were also tested with primers specific for the single copy gene Ribosomal protein S17 RpS17 Cook et al. 2006 Forward 5 CACTCCCAGGTCCGTGGTAT SEQ ID NO 7 Reverse 5 GGACACTTCCGGCACGTAGT SEQ ID NO 8 . If samples that were initially negative for tested positive for host DNA they were screened once again with IS5 primers on a range of DNA template concentrations before infection status was finally assigned.

To facilitate the transfer of the life shortening strain wMelPop that infects Min and Benzer 1997 into the mosquito we adapted the bacteria by continuous serial passage in mosquito cell culture for three years. A consequence of this culturing was a reduction in growth rates and associated virulence when transferred back into see Example 1 . We purified the mosquito cell line adapted isolate of wMelPop and microinjected it into naturally uninfected embryos JCU strain . Surviving adult females were isolated blood fed and after egg laying were assayed for infection using diagnostic PCR see Example 1 Materials and Methods . Eight independent isofemale lines carrying the wMelPop infection were generated. Six of these lines were lost from G G See Materials and Methods and the remaining two lines formed stable associations. These two lines PGYP1 and PGYP2 were chosen for further characterization and after a period of experimental selection have remained persistently infected by wMelPop 100 infection frequency until Gand Grespectively when last assayed .

In species wMelPop shortens the lifespan of adult flies by up to 50 Min and Benzer 1997 McGraw et al. 2002 . We performed several lifespan assays in for a range of experimental conditions. As wMelPop induced early death in is temperature sensitive Min and Benzer 1997 Reynolds et al. 2003 we compared the lifespan of the newly generated wMelPop infected PGYP1 line to the naturally uninfected JCU strain at 25 C. and 30 C. .

In contrast to where the life shortening phenotype is weakly expressed at 25 C. and strongly at 30 C. rapid mortality of PGYP1 mosquitoes G relative to the uninfected parental JCU strain was observed at both temperatures. Under lab conditions at 25 C. and 80 RH the median adult longevity for PGYP1 females of 27.0 days was significantly different from the JCU control of 61.0 days log rank statistic 11.67 P 

To examine the effect of the wMelPop infection under more biologically realistic conditions we exposed a cohort of PGYP1 G and JCU strains to a fluctuating temperature and humidity regime and provided female mosquitoes with daily access to a human blood meal . Under these conditions the lifespan of PGYP1 females was reduced by more than half relative to JCU females. Median longevity was significantly different between treatments PGYP1 21.0 days JCU 50.0 days log rank statistic 10.13 P 

To exclude the possibility that observed reductions in lifespan resulted from genetic drift during the establishment of the PGYP 1 strain we generated an uninfected strain from PGYP1 PGYP1.tet by addition of the antibiotic tetracycline to the adult diet Dobson and Rattanadechakul 2001 . After antibiotic curing of the wMelPop infection Materials and Methods no significant differences in the rate of mortality were observed between females or males of uninfected PGYP1.tet and JCU strains e.g. females log rank statistic 1.23 P 0.2191 . Both females and males from the PGYP 1 G strain had significantly reduced lifespan when compared to those from the PGYP1.tet strain e.g. females log rank statistic 13.70 P 

To test for CI we made crosses between the PGYP1 and wild type JCU and PGYP1.tet strains and measured egg hatch rates. Consistent with the induction of strong CI in Xi et al. 2005 no eggs hatched from more than 2500 embryos obtained from crosses between male PGYP1 G and uninfected JCU females . Similarly only 2 eggs hatched from more than 1900 embryos obtained from crosses between male PGYP1 G and the tetracycline cleared PGYP1.tet females . In both assays PGYP1 females were capable of rescuing CI as indicated by the high egg hatch seen in PGYP1 PGYP1 crosses.

In its natural host wMelPop infection induces CI that quickly diminishes with male age Reynolds et al. 2003 . This effect could slow the invasion of the strain into natural populations. Crosses between uninfected females and wMelPop infected males up to 17 days old resulted in a complete absence of egg hatch from more than 9500 embryos Table 1 indicating wMelPop infection induced CI that is insensitive to male age.

Overall no significant differences in fecundity between PGYP1 PGYP1.tet or JCU strains were observed at Gpost transinfection . An evaluation of CI and reproductive fitness in PGYP2 at Grevealed that the wMelPop infection induced very strong CI but unlike PGYP1 had a 19 fecundity cost when compared to its tetracycline cleared counterpart . In fecundity costs associated with the wMelPop infection were initially high after transinfection but subsequently attenuated while the life shortening effect remained stable McGraw et al. 2002 . Further studies are required to determine if this will be the case for PGYP2 and whether observed differences in reproductive fitness between PGYP1 and PGYP2 are related to or host genotypes.

High maternal inheritance of from infected females to their progeny is a key parameter for successful population invasion. The maternal transmission rate predicts stable prevalence of the infection once it has invaded a population under the action of CI Hoffmann and Turelli 1997 . To estimate maternal transmission rates of wMelPop over the lifespan of we used the polymerase chain reaction to determine the proportion of infected progeny derived from the first and third reproductive cycles of PGYP1 females G mated with uninfected wild type JCU males. Of the 515 larvae screened from 31 females 17 larvae sampled per female from the first reproductive cycle females aged 9 days old 99.74 0.26 were infected. This estimate of maternal inheritance was not significantly different from that obtained from the third reproductive cycle females aged 23 days old in which 527 larvae were screened from five cohorts of 20 females 105 larvae sampled per cohort and were 99.45 0.37 infected Mann Whitney P 0.208 .

The wMelPop infected line PGYP1 used in this study was generated as previously described see Example 2 . In brief the strain wMelPop native to Min and Benzer 1997 was transferred into by embryonic microinjection. Descendants of this isofemale line were outcrossed for several generations to the original recipient line of mosquitoes and selected for stable infection before closing the colony. At generations 8 9 post transinfection an aposymbiotic control line was created by antibiotic treatment of the infected line see Example 2 . All experiments reported here were carried out on mosquitoes at generations 14 16 post trans infection i.e. 4 6 generations post treatment with replicates representing different generations. Mosquitoes were reared under standard conditions 25 C. 12 12 LD 80 RH Gerberg et al. 1994 . Larvae were reared in plastic trays at a density of 150 per three liters of water and supplied with a daily dose of 0.15 g TetraMin aquarium fish food Tetra Germany . Adults were separated by sex and maintained as virgins in cages 30 30 30 cm of 150 individuals. Adults were supplied with a basic diet of 10 sucrose solution administered through cotton pledgets. The adult ages of 3 15 and 25 days of age were selected to represent the periods when 100 90 and 20 of the wMelPop infected population was still surviving respectively see Example 2 .

Our locomotor assay was based on several previously published models Allemand et al. 1994 Bonatz et al. 1987 Grobbelaar et al. 1967 Kawada and Takagi 2004 Liseichikov and Zakharevskii 1978 Mankin 1994 Reynolds and Riley 2002 Rowley et al. 1987 Sbalzarini and Koumoutsakos 2005 but was most heavily influenced by Williams and Kokkinn Williams and Kokkinn 2005 . Mosquitoes were placed in an observation chamber during experiments and their motion captured via a video camera. The observation chamber was constructed using white sides and back and transparent Perspex front pane and contained distinct cells that allowed for the simultaneous observation of 10 individual mosquitoes one per cell. Mosquitoes were provided with 10 sucrose solution ad libitum during observation periods dispensed through dental cotton wicks 1 0.5 cm . The wicks placed in each observation cell also provided constant humidity 80 85 RH . Mosquitoes were transferred from rearing cages to observation chambers 20 min prior to recording of activity to allow them to adapt to the new environment. Recording began daily at 14 30 pm was paused during the hours of darkness 21 00 07 00 and was completed at 12 30 the following day to allow time to transfer in the next set of mosquitoes. After each observation period mosquitoes were aspirated out of the chamber and sacrificed. The chambers were cleaned with ethanol 80 and food supply replaced prior to subsequent observation periods. No mosquito mortality was observed during the observations. A total of three replicates each of 10 mosquitoes were studied per sex strain age per study chamber.

A two color camera DR2 13S2m C CS Point Grey Research Vancouver BC Canada was fitted with a CCTV lens 12VM412ASIR Tamron Commack N.Y. USA and fixed on a mounting bracket 110 cm from the chamber. The distance of the camera to the object the zoom and the focus and iris aperture were optimized to reduce barreling and distortion of images. A flat light source emitting light intensity was placed 10 cm behind the chamber which provided sufficient lighting for the camera sensor to capture high quality images but did not increase ambient temperatures. The light source power switch was synchronized with the room lights using a timer. The entire experimental setup was enclosed in cardboard to minimise intrusion of additional stimuli.

The file format used for recording Audio Video Interleave AVI is limited to a maximum size of 2 GB which amounted to approximately 8 min of video footage. To obtain a continuous video recording we developed a program called Mossiecap that recorded multiple sequential 1.5 GB AVI files. This file size captured six minutes of video i.e. 10 files 60 min at 12 frames s. Each day s footage 420 GB was recorded onto an external hard drive connected to a desktop computer. The contents of each hard drive were then transferred to the hierarchical storage management HSM system at The University of Queensland. Video files stored on the HSM were then evenly distributed to local disks on 20 workstations located in the Visualization and Advanced Computing ViSAC laboratories at The University of Queensland. Mossiefly a custom program developed in Matlab The MathWorks Inc Natick Mass. was used to process videos for motion detection and tracking. This program detected and tracked movement walking and flying separately of individual mosquitoes and digitised the coordinates and time for each movement. The files containing data from movement detection were then analysed using Mossiestat a program developed in Matlab that summarised the movement data captured with Mossiefly into numerical values used for statistical analysis. A total measure of activity summation of time spent flying and walking reported per hour was used for all subsequent statistical analysis as it was more informative than examining the variables independently.

Closed system respirometry was used to measure COproduction in the mosquitoes. COproduction has been shown extensively to be an accurate measure of the metabolism for small and highly aerobic organisms such as insects Lighton 1991 Lighton and Duncan 2002 Van Voorhies et al. 2004 . Our experiment was designed to determine whether metabolic rate was significantly different between wMelPop infected and uninfected mosquitoes in each of two day time intervals lasting 4 hours. Fifteen individual mosquitoes were measured for each sex strain age interval combination. These measurements were replicated 3 times. Mosquitoes were discarded after the recording interval and replaced with fresh mosquitoes from the same rearing cage.

An ADInstruments gas analyzer ML205 and a PowerLab 85P analog to digital converter connected to a computer running data acquisition software ADInstruments Chart 5 were used to measure COproduction from mosquitoes. Before each experiment the gas analyser was calibrated with gas of a known COcontent. Individual mosquitoes were loaded into 25 ml syringes mounted with a three way valve stopcock. Before closing the three way valve the syringe was carefully flushed with room air to remove possible COtraces. Immediately after closing the 15 syringes a separate syringe was filled with air and kept as a control sample for initial room air COconcentration. After the 4 h interval the syringes were injected into the gas analyser at 2 ml suntil 5 ml of air remained. The gas concentrations for each mosquito were used to calculate mosquito metabolic rate. The dry mass of each mosquito was obtained after freezing them for 48 h at 20 C. and desiccating the tissue in a dry vacuum pump. Dry mass was measured with an electronic balance Sartorius BP211D to the closest 0.01 of a milligram. Mosquitoes were not weighed before metabolic rate experiments because immobilisation methods i.e. COasphyxiation may alter metabolic rates.

The following formulas based on Bartholomew et al. 1985 were used for calculations of metabolic rates CO mlCO V V where Vwas the increase in volume of carbon dioxide in the samples calculated from the difference between final and initial COfractional concentrations Vwas the effective volume in the syringe 25 ml minus the mosquito volume estimated as 1.01 body mass and t was the elapsed time in hours. Due to variation in mass between male and female mosquitoes metabolic rate was allometrically scaled using the following formula based on Fuery et al. 1998 Scaled MR mlCO M CO where is the mean mass of male and female mosquitoes used for each of the metabolic experiments and M is the mass of individual mosquitoes. This formula assumes that COproduction is proportional to the mass West et al. 2002 . Statistical Analysis

Transformations square root of the activity measures and the scaled metabolic rate were necessary to generate normal distributions. General linear models were then constructed in Statistica Release 8 StatSoft for each of the sexes separately to explore the effects of age infection status time of day and replicate on each of the activity and metabolic rate datasets separately. T tests were then employed to specifically test for differences in metabolic rates between infected and uninfected mosquitoes at each of the three ages.

On average infected individuals were more active during the day than their uninfected counterparts at each of the three adult ages examined . Increases in activity were significant for both females d.f. 1 F 54.8 P

Metabolic rate was measured for separate sets of mosquitoes during two daytime windows 07 30 11 30 and 11 30 15 30. The data from the two windows were combined after they were shown not to differ from one another using a general linear model data not shown . In females both infection status d.f. 1 F 9.7 P 0.002 and age d.f. 2 F 15.7 P

All fly lines were maintained on standard cornmeal diet at a constant temperature of 25 C. with a 12 hour light dark cycle. The Oregon RC ORC line was obtained from the Bloomington stock centre at Indiana University in 2004 whereas the Oregon R OR and wlines have been maintained long term in the O Neill lab. The Champeti res Champ stock was obtained in 2005 from the Genetic Resource Centre at Kyoto Institute of Technology stock number 103403 and maintained in the Johnson lab.

determined essentially as previously described Scotti 1980 . Briefly 50 l of a suspension of DL2 cells 1 10cells ml was transferred to individual wells of a flat bottomed 96 well tissue culture tray and cells were allowed to attach for at least 1 hour. A ten fold dilution series was prepared in standard cell culture medium for titration. Each virus dilution was used to inoculate 8 wells 50 l per well . The plates were incubated at 27 C. for 4 5 days before scoring for cytopathic effects CPE and the concentration of IU in the virus sample calculated as described previously Scotti 1980 . Survival Assays

For survival assays 4 6 day old adult male were infected by microinjection of virus into the upper lateral part of the abdomen. For negative controls flies were injected with PBS. Samples were injected into flies anaesthetised with carbon dioxide using needles pulled from borosilicate glass capillaries and a pulse pressure micro injector. Virus was diluted to a standard concentration DCV 1.8 108 IU ml CrPV 1.8 108 IU ml and 1.8 108 IU ml FHV in PBS and approximately 100 nl was injected into each fly. For each fly line assayed three groups of 15 flies were injected with virus and one group of 15 flies were injected with PBS. Flies were maintained in vials at a constant temperature of 25 C. with a 12 h light dark cycle and mortality was recorded daily. Mortality that occurred within 2 days of injection was deemed to be due to injury. Negligible mortality 

Five flies were pooled from each fly line and genomic DNA was extracted using the previously described STE method O Neill et al. 1992 . The DNA was PCR screened for presence of using the diagnostic wsp primer set 81F and 691R Zhou et al. 1998 and the integrity of the DNA was confirmed using the 12S primer set 12SA1 and 12SB1 Simon et al. 1994 . All fly stocks were confirmed to be DCV free data not shown .

All infected fly lines used were treated with 0.03 tetracycline Hoffmann et al. 1986 to generate uninfected fly lines. Following the tetracycline treatment flies designated ORCT or wT were held for more than five generations to recover before being used for experiments.

RNA concentration in flies Flies from the ORC and ORCT lines injected with DCV as described above were harvested immediately following injection 0 day time point 2 days or 7 days post infection. Four flies were pooled RNA extracted random primed cDNA synthesised and the amount of DCV RNA quantified using the primers DCV rt fw1 5 AGGCTGTGTTTGCGCGAAG 3 SEQ ID NO 9 and DCV rt rv1 5 AATGGCAAGCGCACACAATTA3 SEQ ID NO 10 as previously described Hedges and Johnson 2008 . For each time point shown four pools flies were independently assayed.

We compared the survival of flies infected with DCV in the presence or absence of infection Materials and Methods . In flies from the standard laboratory strain Oregon RC infection delayed DCV induced mortality compared to Oregon RC flies cured of infection . The delay in mortality corresponded with a delay in virus accumulation in infected flies . The experiment was repeated with the fly strain wwith similar results observed . The survival curves of Oregon RC and w free flies were similar to those of two wild type laboratory populations Champeti res and Oregon R that are naturally uninfected with compare with . Oregon RC and wflies are infected with two closely related strains of wMelCS and wMelPop respectively Riegler et al. 2005 . These results indicate that these strains of in different genetic backgrounds of have an antiviral effect. Two further viruses were tested using the survival bioassay cricket paralysis virus CrPV Dicistroviridae a natural pathogen and Flock House virus FHV Nodaviridae . The latter is unrelated to DCV and CrPV and is pathogenic in adult flies Wang et al. 2006 although natural infections have not been reported. Like DCV both CrPV and FHV induce rapid mortality when injected into adult . All Oregon RC flies infected with and CrPV died within 17 days post infection . In contrast the free Oregon RC flies all died within seven days of infection. Similarly free flies challenged with FHV died within 8 days of infection whereas 26 days post infection only 35 of the infected flies had succumbed to FHV induced mortality . These results indicate that the antiviral effect observed in infected functions to protect flies from diverse RNA viruses.

Plaque purified DCV isolate EB Hedges and Johnson 2008 and FHV Johnson et al. 2001 were propagated and purified from DL2 cells Schneider 1972 . DL2 cells were maintained in Schneider s media supplemented with 10 FBS 1 glutamine and 1 penstrep Invitrogen at 27.5 C. Cells grown in 75 cmflasks were infected with either DCV or FHV at a low multiplicity of infection 

All infected fly lines were obtained from the culture collection in the O Neill lab and were maintained on standard cornmeal diet at a constant temperature of 25 C. with a 12 hour light dark cycle. The fly line Me29 is infected with wMel. The wMel infection was established by injection of containing cytoplasm from Wien 5 embryos into NHaTC embryos Poinsot et al. 1998 . The other lines are naturally infected with strains as previously described and are listed in Table 2 Hoffman et al. 1986 Mercot and Poinsot 1998 O Neill and Karr 1990 and Hoffman et al. 1996 .

Virus free populations of each of the containing fly line were prepared essentially as previously described Brun and Plus 1980 . Briefly flies were aged for at least 20 days transferred to fresh media supplemented with dry yeast and allowed to lay eggs for up to 16 hours. The eggs were collected from the surface of the media and treated for 4 minutes in 1.7 w v sodium hypochlorite solution to remove the chorion. After treatment the eggs were thoroughly rinsed with water transferred to moist filter paper and placed on fresh virus free media. Virus free flies were maintained separately from untreated stocks.

To generate fly lines free of each virus free infected fly line was treated with 0.03 tetracycline Hoffman et al. 1986 . Following the tetracycline treatment flies were held for more than four generations to recover before being used for experiments.

The accumulation of infectious DCV particles in both infected and uninfected flies was measured. For each of the five fly lines groups of flies with and without were injected with DCV as for survival bioassays. At designated times post injection two pools of four live DCV injected flies were collected and frozen at 20 C. Flies from all infected and uninfected fly lines were collected at 2 dpi. For Me29 DSR and CO flies infected with samples were also collected at 10 days post injection for N7NO and DSH containing and all tet treated lines there were not enough live flies remaining at 10 days for collection. For CO flies an additional collection was included at 30 dpi.

Each pool of four flies was homogenised in 100 l of PBS with two 3 mm beads Sigma Aldrich using a Mini BeadBeater 96 Biospec Products for 60 seconds. The homogenates were clarified by centrifuging at 14 K for 8 minutes. The virus containing supernatant was aliquoted and stored at 20 C. Virus titre was determined using the TCIDassay as previously described see Example 4 . The two replicates for each fly population were assayed on different days to control for between day variation in TCIDassays. Statistical analysis of the data was done using unpaired t tests to compare the geometric means of the duplicate samples between flies of each line with and without at 2 dpi GraphPad Prism .

For each fly line 200 eggs were collected and incubated on fresh food with a constant temperature of 25 C. for 10 days. Freshly emerged flies were collected for 8 hours aged to 4 days old and then five male flies from a single collection were pooled. For each fly line a total of 10 pools of flies were collected from independent bottles and the DNA extracted using a DNeasy Blood and Tissue Kit as per the Manufacturer s instructions Qiagen . The relative ratio of to fly genomic DNA was determined by quantitative PCR. Each 10 L qPCR reaction included 5 L of Sybr Green qPCR Supermix UDG Invitrogen 1 L of DNA template and 1 M each of the forward and reverse primers. Primers for were designed from an alignment of the sequence of the WSP genes from all five strains wspFQALL 5 GCATTTGGTTAYAAAATGGACGA 3 SEQ ID NO 11 and wspRQALL 5 GGAGTGATAGGCATATCTTCAAT 3 SEQ ID NO 12 and for the host gene RPS17 Dmel.rps17F 5 CACTCCCAGGTGCGTGGTAT 3 SEQ ID NO 13 and Dmel.rps17R 5 GGAGACGGCCGGGACGTAGT 3 SEQ ID NO 14 . Reactions were done in duplicate in a Rotor gene thermal cycler Corbett Life Sciences with the following conditions one cycle of 50 C. 2 min 95 C. 2 min followed by 40 cycles of 95 C. 5 sec 60 C. 5 sec 72 C. 10 sec. A third technical replicate was done where necessary and DNA extracted from flies without was used as a negative control. Ratios were calculated in Qgene and statistical analysis included Mann Whitney t test to compare differences of the means.

The accumulation of infectious DCV particles was assayed in Me29 flies with and without wMel. The titre of infectious virus in homogenates from flies collected 2 dpi was significantly different in flies with and without wMel p

Not all strains protected flies from DCV induced mortality. The median survival time of DSH and N7NO flies challenged with DCV was 4 days regardless of infection status for fly lines infected by wHa or wNo respectively . While there was a small but statistically significant p 0.001 difference between the survival curves for the DSH flies with and without wHa infection for the representative experiment shown in a significant difference was evident in only 2 out of 4 experiments replicated on independent cohorts of flies data not shown . Taken together the minor difference in survival and non reproducible nature of the result suggests that it is unlikely that this difference is biologically relevant and as such we interpret the results as indicating that there is no protection against DCV induced mortality in the DSH flies infected with wHa. There was no difference between the survival curves of N7NO flies with and without wNo infection p 0.7 . To investigate whether protection would be evident for these lines challenged with reduced amounts of virus we decreased the concentration of DCV injected by 10 or 100 fold. Even at these lower doses of virus no mediated antiviral protection was observed in DSH and N7NO flies data not shown .

DCV accumulation was assayed in each line in the presence or absence of . DCV infected flies were assayed at 2 dpi and the DCV titre was compared for each fly line with and without infection. The average DCV titre was approximately 800 fold lower in CO flies infected with wAu compared to paired free flies and an unpaired t test showed this to be a significant difference p

Having identified that some but not all strains mediate protection against DCV in the lines tested we next investigated whether antiviral protection was consistent across different viruses. Flies with and without were challenged by injection with FHV or mock infected with PBS . In all cases mortality in the mock infected control flies was negligible. The CO flies without infection reached 100 mortality within 7 days of injection with FHV . Similar to challenge with DCV the wAu infected flies survived FHV infection more than 90 were alive when the experiment was terminated at 24 dpi. The wRi infected DSR flies had significantly better survival p

Not all of the fly lines were protected from FHV induced mortality by infection. The median survival time of DSH flies challenged with FHV was 6 days regardless of the presence or absence of wHa and there was no significant difference in the survival curves p 0.4 . For the N7NO line there was no difference between the survival curves with and without wNo infection p 0.5 .

To investigate whether virus protection correlated with the density of the in the fly lines we utilized quantitative PCR to determine density from pools of 5 male flies from each fly line. Estimates of abundance for a single copy gene were determined and then normalized against abundance of a single copy host gene to determine relative abundance of . The three strains wMel wRi and wAu that gave strong antiviral protection in the lines were significantly more abundant in these flies than the strains that gave no protection wHa and wNo .

Five different lines were used including the original inbred wMelPop CLA infected line PGYP1 and its tetracycline cured counterpart PGYP1.tet see Example 2 . A genetically diverse line derived from PGYP 1 named PGYP1.out was generated by backcrossing PGYP1 for three generations to F1 males of 52 independent field collected isofemale lines from Cairns Australia. A further two generations of backcrossing were conducted with F2 field collected material before the colony was used in experiments. This backcrossing scheme is expected to replace 96.9 of the original inbred genotype. A tetracycline cured counterpart PGYP1.out.tet Wolb was generated by antibiotic treatment of backcrossed adults followed by two generations of recovery and recolonization with gut bacteria as previously described see Example 2 . A genetically diverse wild type line was also generated at the same time from field collected material sourced from 245 ovitraps across seven suburbs of Cairns Australia in late 2008 and named Cairns3. For the malaria experiments a susceptible strain Rodrigues et al. 2008 was used in parallel with PGYP1.out Wolb and PGYP1.out.tet Wolb mosquitoes. Insects were kept in a controlled environment insectary at 25 C 80 RH and a 12 hour light regime. Larvae were maintained with fish food pellets Tetramin Tetra and adults were offered 10 sucrose solution ad libitum. Adult females were bloodfed on human volunteers for egg production. Three to five day old female mosquitoes were used for the DENV and malaria infection experiments. Seven day old females were used for the CHIKV experiments.

Dengue virus serotype 2 DENV 2 92T was isolated from human serum collected from a patient from Townsville Australia in 1992. Virus stocks were passaged five times in cell line C6 36 grown in RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 fetal calf serum FCS penicillin 100 g ml streptomycin 100 g ml and 1 glutamax Invitrogen and maintained at 28 C. Supernatants were collected 5 days after infection separated into 0.5 ml aliquots and then frozen at 80 C. Virus used in microinjection experiments was obtained from thawed stocks of above and had a titer of 107.6 CCID50 per ml. To prepare the DENV 2 for oral feeding the frozen virus stock was passaged once more through C6 36 cells and the supernatant was harvested at 5 days and then mixed directly with blood to formulate a bloodmeal for feeding. Virus solution with higher titer 108.85 CCID50 ml was obtained by harvesting the viral supernatant and the intracellular virus from cell lysates.

CHIKV strain 06113879 isolated from a viremic traveler returning from Mauritius to Victoria Australia in 2006 was provided by the Victorian Infectious Diseases Research Laboratory Melbourne Australia. Cultures were grown at 37 C. in Vero African green monkey kidney cells for 4 days before the supernatant was harvested and frozen at 80 C. This CHIKV stock was passaged once more in Vero cells and the virus was concentrated from 1.8 L of infected culture supernatant via ultracentrifugation at 10 000 g for 17 hrs at 4 C. Pelleted virus was resuspended in 20 ml of Opti MEM reduced serum medium Gibco BRED Invitrogen California supplemented with 10 FCS before aliquots of the prepared virus were frozen at 80 C. The stock concentration had a final viral titer of 108.0 CCID50 ml.

Female mosquitoes were briefly anesthetized with COand placed on a glass plate over ice. Insects were handled with forceps under a dissecting scope and injected into their thorax pleural membrane with a pulled glass capillary and a handheld microinjector Nanoject II Drummond Sci. . Sixty nine nanoliters of DENV 2 stock was injected into each mosquito which corresponds to approx. 2 750 virus particles mosquito. After injection mosquitoes were transferred to 1 L plastic cages within polystyrene boxes and these boxes were maintained inside an environmentally controlled incubator 12 12 L D h 27 C. and 70 RH. Sucrose solution and apple slices were provided on top of each cage. Mosquitoes were collected from each cage 5 and 14 days after infection and 5 dpi days postinfection samples were dissected into abdomen and thorax plus head. Samples were placed on dry ice and then transferred to 80 C. until RNA extraction see below . Fourteen days after thoracic injection eight mosquitoes were collected from each cage briefly anesthetized with CO2 and placed on a glass plate over ice. Wings and legs were removed with forceps and their mouthparts were introduced into a 1 cm piece of polypropylene tubing 0.61 0.28 mm Microtube Extrusions NSW Australia filled with light mineral oil Novak et al. 1995 . Females were allowed to salivate into these capillaries for 5 minutes at room temperature and then the capillaries were rinsed into 20 l of fetal calf serum with a Hamilton syringe. Samples were centrifuged at 14 000 g for 2 minutes and kept frozen 80 C. for further virus detection using a cell culture enzyme immunoassay CCEIA . Mosquito whole bodies were frozen on dry ice and kept at 80 C. for quantitative PCR virus detection.

Mosquitoes were starved for 24 hrs and then transferred to 1 L or 2.5 L plastic feeding containers. Prior to feeding DENV 2 was harvested from C6 36 cell culture supernatant and diluted 1 5 in defibrinated sheep s blood. For the CHIKV experiments frozen aliquots of stock virus were rapidly thawed and diluted in washed defibrinated sheep blood and 1 sucrose. Blood virus mixtures were maintained at 37 C. for 1 h and 4 h for DENV 2 and CHIKV respectively using membrane feeders Rutledge et al. 1964 and covered with a porcine intestine as the membrane. After feeding mosquitoes were anesthetized using COand partially and non engorged mosquitoes were discarded. Fully engorged mosquitoes were maintained on a 15 sucrose solution at 12 12 L D h 27 28 C. and 70 RH. To determine DENV 2 infection and dissemination rates up to 40 mosquitoes were processed separately at 7 and 14 d post exposure. To follow the replication and dissemination of CHIKV 10 30 mosquitoes were processed on days 0 2 4 7 10 and 14 post exposure. Mosquitoes were anesthetized using CO and the legs for DENV 2 and legs and wings for CHIKV from each mosquito were removed and these and the remaining body and head were stored separately at 80 C. Samples were processed using the CCEIA method DENV 2 or qRT PCR CHIKV described below. Differences in the frequency of DENV 2 infection and dissemination between mosquito lines were analyzed using chisquare goodness of fit tests after the 7 or 14 d extrinsic incubation period for DENV 2 and at 14 d for CHIKV Zar 1999 .

Titration of DENV 2 and CHIKV stocks and blood virus mixtures was performed using a CCEIA method similar to that previously described Broom et al. 1998 . For DENV 2 C6 36 cell monolayers 60 90 confluent in 96 well plates were inoculated with 50 l well of virus dilutions and plates were incubated at 28 C. with 5 COfor 5 d. Cell monolayers then were fixed and examined for DENV 2 antigens using a cocktail of cross reactive monoclonal antibodies 4G4 and 4G2 Hall et al. 1991 . For CHIKV all titrations were performed in Vero cells which were incubated at 37 C. with 5 CO2. After 7 d plates were examined for cytopathic effect CPE which was confirmed using the CCEIA and the broadly reactive alphavirus monoclonal antibody B10.

Two to three day old White Leghorn chickens were infected through intraperitoneal or intradermal injection of 8A strain parasitized blood Rodrigues et al. 2008 . Parasitemia was determined every other day through Giemsa stained blood smears. Ten microscopic fields were examined under immersion oil to count one hundred red blood cells and determine the ratio of infected cells. Presence of gametocytes and rising parasitemia was ensured in order to enhance the chance of mosquito infection. Before infection mosquitoes were deprived of sugar solution overnight and on the next morning chickens were placed on top of the cages and mosquitoes were fed for about 45 minutes. Only bloodfed female mosquitoes were kept for further observations. Four independent experiments were performed with independent cohorts. Seven days after bloodfeeding mosquitoes had their midguts dissected in 1 PBS and after staining the midguts with 0.2 Mercurochrome solution oocysts were counted under a microscope DIC 100 . Fifteen days after infection mosquitoes were collected and DNA was extracted Qiagen Blood Tissue kit for detection. For detection around 1 ng of genomic DNA was used in quantitative PCR reactions as described below. Primers for the spp. 18S ssu rRNA gene Schneider and Shahabuddin 2000 were used for the parasite sequence amplification and Actin primers were used as a host control gene see primer sequences in Table 6 . Analyses were performed with qGENE Joehanes and Nelson 2008 and Mann Whitney U tests STATISTICA V8 StatSoft Inc. to compare relative abundance between lines.

Individual frozen mosquito whole bodies or body parts were placed into 2 ml screw cap vials with a glass bead 2 mm diameter Sigma Aldrich . 200 l of Trizol Invitrogen was added and the sample homogenized for 150 s using a Mini BeadBeater Biospec Products . Tubes were incubated at room temperature for 5 min 40 l of chloroform was added to each tube and samples were thoroughly vortexed for 10 s. Tubes were centrifuged for 15 min at 14 000 g at 4 C. and the supernatant containing the RNA was transferred to new tubes. RNA was precipitated by adding 40 l of isopropanol and incubated at 20 C. overnight. Samples were centrifuged at 12 000 g for 10 min at 4 C. to pellet the RNA. Pellets were washed with 200 L of 70 ethanol and after centrifugation 7 500 g for 5 min at 4 C. ethanol was removed and pellets were dried for 10 min in a fume hood. RNA was resuspended in 25 L of RNAse free milli Q water and tubes were incubated for 10 min at 56 C. Samples were maintained at 80 C. until further analysis. cDNA synthesis was based on the protocol described by Richardson Richardson et al. 2006 which allowed us to determine both the genomic RNA and replicative anti genomic virus forms RNA . Briefly 0.5 g of each RNA 2 g for saliva samples was mixed with 0.625 M of either the DENV 2 NS5 forward or reverse primer see Table 6 plus 0.2 mM dNTPs in separate cDNA reactions. Samples were incubated at 86 C. for 15 min and 5 min on ice then 5 first strand buffer and 100U of Superscript III Invitrogen was added to a total volume of 20 l. Samples were incubated at 25 C. for 10 min followed by 42 C. for 50 min and 10 min at 95 C. to inactivate the transcriptase. Negative controls no template were included in each reaction. For DENV 2 detection cDNA samples were diluted 1 10 with milli Q water. The qPCR reaction consisted of 2 l of the diluted cDNAs 5 l of Sybr Green mix Invitrogen and 1 M of each primer see above in 10 l total volume. Reactions were performed in duplicate in a Rotor gene thermal cycler Corbett Life Sciences with the following conditions 50 C. 2 min 95 C. 2 min 45 cycles 95 C. 5 s 60 C. 5 s 72 C. 10 s followed by the melting curve 68 C. to 95 C. . Melting curves for each sample were analyzed after each run to check specificity. A standard curve was created by cloning the DENV 2 NS5 fragment into pGEM T Easy Promega . After linearization with Pst I the plasmid was serially diluted into known concentrations and run in parallel in order to determine the absolute number of DENV 2 copies contained in each sample. Mann Whitney U tests were employed STATISTICA V8 StatSoft Inc. to examine the effect of infection on dengue number for each for each paired strain combination PGYP1 PGYP1.tet PGYP1.out PGYP1.out.tet body part whole abdomen thorax age 5 or 14 d post inoculation. The tests were based on the means from each of 4 independently replicated experiments.

Individual frozen mosquito bodies and heads or legs and wings were homogenized for 3 min in 1 ml of Opti MEM reduced serum medium respectively using glass beads and a mechanical homogenizer Spex Industries Edison N.J. . The supernatant from each sample was removed for potential virus isolation and stored at 80 C. The remaining mosquito pellet from each sample was resuspended in equal volumes 200 l of Opti MEM reduced serum medium and TRIzol LS reagent Invitrogen Life Technologies California and homogenized again as described above. After incubation at room temperature for 5 min and addition of 40 l of chloroform the entire homogenate for each sample was then vortexed for 15 sec and transferred to a pre spun Phase Lock Gel Heavy tube 5 Prime GmbH Germany . The lysed contents of each tube were allowed to settle for 5 min at room temperature and organic and aqueous phases were separated by centrifugation at 16 000 g for 10 min at room temperature. Aqueous phases were recovered from each tube before total RNA was extracted at room temperature using a modification of the RNeasy Mini Kit protocol Qiagen Australia and on column DNase treatment. RNA was eluted from the column with 30 l of RNasefree HO and a final centrifugation step for 1 min. All RNA samples were stored at 80 C. prior to analysis by qRT PCR. RNA standards were produced for the relative quantification of CHIKV RNA copy numbers normalized to RNA levels of the ribosomal housekeeping gene RpS17 see Table 6 .

PGYP1.out and PGYP1.out.tet mosquitoes were analyzed by RT qPCR for a selection of immune genes. Two biologically independent cohorts of ten sugar fed 5 6 day old female mosquitoes were collected and analyzed from each mosquito line. Total RNA was extracted from whole mosquitoes using TRI REAGENT Molecular Research Center Inc. or RiboZol AMRESCO . The RNA samples were DNase treated Promega and reverse transcribed using random primers and SuperScript III Reverse Transcriptase Invitrogen . Quantitative PCR was carried out as per Platinum SYBR Green protocol Invitrogen . The sequences of the primers used for qPCR are detailed in Table 6. Primer sequences for REL1 REL2 CECG and DEFC were obtained elsewhere Xi et al. 2008 and the other primers were designed using gene sequences obtained from VectorBase. The temperature profile of the qPCR was 95 C. for 2 min 50 C. for 2 min and 40 cycles of 95 C. for 10 s 60 C. for 10 s and 72 C. for 20 s. The house keeping gene RpS17 Cook et al. 2006 was used to normalize expression. Target gene to house keeping gene ratios were obtained for each biological replicate using QGene 4.2 Joehanes and Nelson 2008 . Treatment effects on the expression ratios were examined using Mann Whitney U tests in STATISTICA V8 StatSoft Inc. and fold change was calculated by the REST method Pfaffl et al. 2002 .

Following the removal of legs and wings 14 dpi mosquitoes were fixed overnight at 4 C. in 4 w v paraformaldehyde in PBS containing 0.5 v v Triton X 100. Fixed mosquitoes were dehydrated in an ethanol series of 50 70 90 95 100 ethanol followed by two toluene treatments and then infiltrated with paraffin wax Paraplast Xtra McCormick Scientific at 60 C. Paraffin embedded mosquitoes were sectioned using a rotary microtome to obtain 8 m sections that were adhered to superfrost plus slides Menzel Gl ser . Slides were dried deparaffinated in 100 xylene rehydrated in an ethanol series and then washed in PBS T before being blocked overnight in 2 w v bovine serum albumin BSA in PBS T at 4 C. Sections were then incubated simultaneously for 1 hour with antirabbit WSP 1 100 and anti dengue 1 10 4G4 or anti CSP Krettli et al. 1988 antibodies 1 100 both monoclonal developed in mouse diluted in blocking solution. Tissue sections were washed twice with PBS T and the slides were then incubated simultaneously with Alexa conjugated secondary antibodies Alexa 488 developed in rabbit or Alexa 594 developed in mice respectively Molecular Probes Invitrogen diluted 1 1000 each in blocking solution for 1 h at room temperature. After two washes in PBS T the slides were incubated in DAPI for 10 min rinsed in PBS T and then mounted using an antifading reagent ProLong Invitrogen . Immunostaining was analyzed with a Zeiss Axio Imager II epifluorescence microscope equipped with an Axiocam camera using the same exposure conditions for each filter channel. Photos are representative of at least 10 mosquitoes of each treatment.

FISH was done using a modified protocol adapted from GeneDetect.com. Briefly paraffin embedded mosquitoes were sectioned and de paraffinated as described above. Sections were then dehydrated in an ethanol series and hybridised overnight at 37 C. in a hybridization buffer containing 4 SSC 50 formamide 250 mg ml dextran sulfate 250 g ml poly A 250 g ml tRNA 250 ug ml salmon sperm DNA 100 mM DTT and 0.5 Denhardt s solution and 200 ng of specific 16S rRNAprobes W2 5 CTTCTGTGAGTACCGTCATTATC 3 SEQ ID NO 15 and W3 5 AACCGACCCTATCCCTTCGAATA 3 SEQ ID NO 16 labelled at the 3 end with rhodamine. Both probes are 100 homologous to both wMelPop and wFlu. Following overnight hybridizations sections were washed twice in 1 SSC containing 10 mM DTT and twice in 0.5 SSC containing 10 mM DTT for 15 min each at 55 C. followed by a 10 min wash at 0.5 SSC containing 10 mM DTT and 1 g ml DAPI. Slides were briefly rinsed in water mounted using an antifading reagent ProLong Invitrogen and observed and photographed as described in the immunofluorescence method.

Total protein from 5 mosquitoes of each treatment was extracted using protein lysis buffer containing 50 mM Tris pH 7.4 140 mM NaCl 0.5 v v Triton X 100 1.5 g ml DNAseI and protease inhibitors Roche . Samples were boiled for 10 min in the presence of protein loading buffer run on a 12 Laemmli SDS gel and transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane Immobilon P Millipore through the semidry Transblot SD BioRad . Because the 4G4 antidengue antibody recognizes a conformational epitope mercaptoethanol was omitted from the sample loading buffer. Membranes were blocked with 5 non fat dried milk in TBS T overnight at 4 C and then probed with antiwsp polyclonal antibody Braig et al. 1998 diluted 1 1 000 in 5 w v skim milk in TBS T or anti dengue 4G4 monoclonal antibody 1 100 dilution for 1 h at room temperature. After 3 washes in TBS T membranes were incubated with anti rabbit or anti mouse IgG alkaline phosphatase conjugated antibody Sigma 1 4 000 for 1 h respectively. Following washing in TBS T blots were developed with NBT BCIP Promega . Western blots on infected mosquitoes revealed a single band around 26 kDa that corresponds with the correct molecular weight of wsp 25540 Da Braig et al. 1998 whereas the 4G4 antibody revealed a band of around 50 kDa in dengue positive mosquitoes.

A standard curve was created by cloning a wsp gene fragment Braig et al. 1998 into pGEM T Easy Promega . After linearization with Pst I the plasmid was serially diluted into known concentrations and run in parallel in order to determine the absolute number of copies contained in each mosquito sample. Mann Whitney U tests were employed STATISTICA V8 StatSoft Inc. to examine the density of in both mosquito species.

The surface protein gene wsp was amplified using the primers 81F and 691R that amplify a wide range of strains Braig et al. 1998 . PCR cycling conditions were as follows 94 C. 3 min 94 C. 30 s 52 C. 30 s 68 C. 90 s 35 cycles then 68 C. 10 min. The reaction mixture contained 625 nM of each primer 125 M dNTPs 1.5 mM MgSO4 20 ng of mosquito DNA and 0.5 L of proof reading Elongase enzyme mix Invitrogen in a final volume of 25 l. PCR products were separated in 1 agarose gels and stained with ethidium bromide. Six independent PCR amplicons were cloned into the pGEM T Easy vector Promega and six clones were sequenced with T7 and M13R universal primers using the AB Big Dye terminator Version 3.1 kit with fluorescent sequencing FS AmpliTaq DNA polymerase Perkin Elmer and analysed on AB 3730x1 96 capillary sequencer. Sequencing was done at the Australian Genome Research Facility AGRF . Sequence similarity searches were performed using the BLAST algorithm Altschul et al. 1997 at NCBI and a phylogenetic tree was constructed using DNAstar Lasergene . A partial wsp gene sequence from wFlu has been deposited in GenBank Accession number GQ917108 .

RNA standards were produced for the relative quantification of CHIKV RNA copy numbers normalized to RNA levels of the ribosomal housekeeping gene RpS17. Firstly a CHIKV RNA synthetic transcript was produced by RT PCR amplification of a 588 bp fragment from the CHIKV strain 06113879 using primers designed from its deduced partial E1 structural gene sequence GenBank accession number EU404186 see Table 6 . The one step RT PCR was performed using the Superscript III One Step RT PCR System with Platinum Taq High Fidelity Invitrogen Life Technologies California according to the manufacturer s instructions with 400 nM of each primer and 5 l of CHIKV RNA in a final reaction volume of 50 l. Amplification was performed in an Eppendorf Mastercycler epgradient S Eppendorf Germany and included one cycle at 50 C. for 15 min for reverse transcription an inactivation step at 94 C. for 2 min 40 cycles of 94 C. for 2 min 59 C. for 30 sec and 68 C. for 2.5 min and final extension at 68 C. for 5 min. Amplicon DNA was purified using the QIAquick Gel Extraction Kit Qiagen Australia and supplied instructions and then cloned into the plasmid vector pGEM T Easy Promega . After the presence and orientation of the insert DNA was verified by nucleotide sequencing the plasmid was linearized for in vitro RNA transcription by digestion with SpeI. Synthetic RNA transcripts were then prepared using the Riboprobe T7 System Promega before multiple treatments with DNase 1 RQ1 RNase Free DNase Promega Corporation WI USA . The final CHIKV transcript of 654 bp was stored in single use aliquots at 80 C. and RNA levels were determined by spectrophotometry immediately prior to use. For the housekeeping gene RpS17 RNA standard total RNA from whole mosquitoes was extracted as before with the exception that on column DNase treatment was omitted. In this instance RNA was DNase treated and stored as described for the CHIKV RNA transcript. To enable a direct comparison of CHIKV RNA copy numbers in prepared mosquito body plus head and legs plus wings samples two specific one step qRT PCR real time TaqMan assays were developed targeting the CHIKV E1 and RpS17 genes respectively. Both were performed using the ABI 7500 Fast Real Time PCR System PE Applied Biosystems Foster City Calfornia and all reaction mixes amplification parameters result analysis and CHIKV primer and probe sequences were used as previously reported. Primers and dual labelled probe 5 FAMCAGGAGGAGGAACGTGAGCGCAG TAMRA 3 SEQ ID NO 17 for the RpS17 housekeeping assay were derived from the RpS17 gene sequence GenBank accession number AY927787. Standard curves for qRT PCRs were generated using triplicate 15 fold serial dilutions of either the CHIKV T7 RNA transcript or the prepared RpS17 reference RNA. Equivalent CHIKV RNA copy numbers normalized to reference RpS17 RNA levels were then calculated for the CHIKV infected mosquito samples by comparing threshold cycle numbers Ct with the respective standards.

We tested the effect of on vector competence in two mosquito genetic backgrounds the original inbred PGYP1 line which was stably transinfected with wMelPop CLA see Example 2 and the same strain after 5 generations of backcrossing to the F1 progeny of wild caught collected in Cairns Australia and named PGYP1.out. These mosquito strains were compared to tetracycline treated counterparts that were genetically identical but lacked the infection named PGYP1.tet and PGYP1.out.tet respectively. In addition a wild type strain of established from field collected material in Cairns Australia Cairns3 was used as an additional negative control.

Mosquitoes were fed an artificial blood meal spiked with DENV 2 in four independent experiments to examine possible interactions with . The presence of DENV 2 in whole mosquito bodies was examined 7 and 14 days post exposure using a cell culture enzyme immunoassay CCEIA Knox et al. 2003 . In three separate experiments no infected mosquitoes PGYP1.out tested positive for DENV 2 but DENV 2 infection rates in uninfected mosquitoes PGYP1.out.tet and Cairns3 ranged from 30 100 Table 3 Exp 1 3 . The body viral infection rates in PGYP1.out.tet mosquitoes ranged from 30 100 after 7 d and 48 97 after 14 d while the body viral infection rates in Cairns3 ranged from 50 95 after 7 d and 57 95 after 14 d. The disseminated viral infection rates measured through the presence of virus in mosquito legs in tetracycline treated ranged from 10 23 and 37 43 after 7 and 14 d respectively. Disseminated infections in free wildtype Cairns3 strain of ranged from 5 13 and 20 33 after 7 and 14 d respectively Table 3 P

We then went on to determine if the virus interference phenotype would extend to the alphavirus CHIKV. The virus strain used in the experiments contained the alanine to valine mutation in the membrane fusion glycoprotein E1 gene E1 A226V which has been linked to increased infectivity in . An Australian population of was recently shown to also be a highly efficient laboratory vector of this virus strain. Mosquitoes were exposed to a blood virus mixture containing 106.4 CCID50 ml of CHIKV and at various timepoints post exposure mosquitoes were processed for quantification of the number of viral RNA copies using qPCR and CHIKV specific primers and probes. Immediately after feeding the number of CHIKV genomic RNA RNA copies in the body and head were comparable for all three lines suggesting that they imbibed similar amounts of virus Table 4 . The median number of copies then decreased in all three lines on days 2 prior to it increasing in the PGYP1.out.tet and Cairns3 mosquitoes to its highest level at day 14 post exposure. The day 14 infection rates were 87 and 79 for the PGYP1.out.tet and Cairns3 controls and 17 for the infected PGYP1.out line P

Considering that the viral interference effect appeared robust for two unrelated arboviruses we then went on to test for the effect on the protozoan parasite . While not a human pathogen this species of malaria parasite is known to be able to infect mosquitoes in the laboratory. infected and uninfected mosquitoes PGYP1.out and PGYP1.out.tet strains as well as a susceptible strain of were fed in parallel on infected chickens. has a broad geographical distribution in Latin America and has been used in the laboratory as a safe avian malaria model vector as it does not naturally transmit DENV or yellow fever virus Tason de Camargo and Krettli 1981 . Seven days post feeding on infected chickens mosquito midguts were dissected and the number of oocysts counted. The presence of wMelPop CLA significantly reduced the oocyst load in mosquitoes P

When we incubated the mosquito sections with an anti wsp antibody we serendipitously discovered a infection in mosquitoes indicating that this species of mosquito was naturally infected with . PCR using general wsp primers Braig et al. 1998 Zhou et al. 1998 amplified a fragment from all tested. Sequence of the amplified DNA indicated that this strain named wFlu belongs to the B supergroup and is distantly related to wMelPop CLA. qPCR analysis revealed that the density of wFlu in is about 20 fold lower than the density of wMelPop CLA in . We then examined the tissue localization of in both mosquito species and whereas wMelPop CLA is distributed throughout most tissues of the mosquito including the fat body anterior midgut muscle nervous tissue malpighian tubules and ovaries wFlu is present only in ovaries malpighian tubules and less frequently in the head but absent from ommatidia .

To examine whether resistance of infected mosquitoes to pathogen infection may be related to stimulation or priming of the mosquito innate immune system we quantified the expression of a sample of immune genes. It was recently demonstrated that some immune genes are differentially regulated in mosquitoes infected with dengue virus Xi et al. 2008 . Interestingly regulation of the immune pathway genes in these mosquitoes was also stimulated by their natural gut microbiota and rearing mosquitoes aseptically and so depleting their bacterial flora resulted in a 2 fold increase of dengue virus in the midgut Xi et al. 2008 . We chose a subset of the genes that were shown to be upregulated upon dengue virus infection to assess the effect of infection on the mosquito immune system. The expression levels of eleven immune pathway genes in the wMelPop CLA infected PGYP1.out and its uninfected control line were compared for two independently reared cohorts of mosquitoes . In each of the experiments four genes encoding representatives of the immune effector molecules cecropin defensin thio ester containing proteins TEP and C type lectins were significantly upregulated in the presence of wMelPop CLA whereas FREP18 fibrinogenrelated protein 18 levels remained unchanged A and B . In contrast while a statistically significant P

wMelPop infected PGYP1 and tetracycline cleared PGYP1.tet strains of see Example 2 were maintained at 25 C. 75 85 relative humidity with a 12 12 h light dark photoperiod. Larvae were reared in plastic trays 30 40 8 cm at a set density of 150 larvae in 3 L distilled water and fed 150 mg fish food TetraMin Tropical Tablets Tetra Germany per pan every day until pupation. Adults were kept in screened 30 30 30 cm cages and provided with constant access to 10 sucrose solution and water. Females 5 days old were blood fed using human blood for egg production. For routine colony maintenance eggs from PGYP 1 were hatched 5 7 days post oviposition i.e. without prolonged desiccation to initiate the next generation. All fitness experiments with PGYP 1 were conducted at Gto Gpost transinfection.

Eggs 120 h old from PGYP 1 and PGYP1.tet strains were hatched synchronously in nutrient infused deoxygenated water for 1 h. After hatching individual first instar larvae n 156 per strain were placed into separate plastic 30 mL plastic cups with 20 mL of water and fed 1 mg powdered TetraMin suspended in distilled water each day until pupation. The number of days spent in each pre imaginal life stage i.e. 1 2 3and 4instars pupae mortality at each stage and sex of eclosing adults were recorded every 24 h. Stage specific development and eclosion times for each strain were compared using Mann Whitney U MWU tests conducted in Statistica Version 8 StatSoft Tulsa Okla. .

As an indicator of adult body size wing lengths of PGYP1 and PGYP1.tet mosquitoes n 50 of each sex derived from the pre imaginal development time assay were measured Nasci 1986 . Wing lengths of males and females from each strain were compared using MWU tests.

PGYP 1 and PGYP1.tet females were blood fed on human blood and 96 h post blood meal isolated individually for oviposition in plastic vials with wet filter paper funnels. After oviposition egg papers were kept wet for 48 h after which time they were removed from vials wrapped individually in paper towel and conditioned for a further 72 h at 25 C. and 75 85 relative humidity. Egg batches were then moved to their respective storage temperature of 18 C. or 25 C. in glass desiccator jars maintained at a constant relative humidity of 85 with a saturated KCl solution Winston and Bates 1960 . For each temperature 20 oviposition papers from each strain were hatched at seven time points at 7 day intervals 5 to 47 days post oviposition by submersion in nutrient infused deoxygenated water for 48 h. To hatch any remaining eggs oviposition papers were dried briefly then submersed for a further 5 days and before the final number of hatched larvae was recorded. Regression analysis was used to detect trends in the viability of eggs from each strain over time. MWU tests were used to compare viability of eggs between strains at the same storage age.

Replicate 30 30 30 cm cages containing 200 individuals of each sex from PGYP1 and PGYP1.tet strains were maintained over multiple gonotrophic cycles with ad libitum access to 10 sucrose solution and water for the duration of their lifespan. During each cycle females were provided with a human blood meal for 2 10 min periods on consecutive days and 96 h post blood meal a random sample of females n 48 was collected from each cage and isolated individually for oviposition. Following a set 24 h period for oviposition females were returned to their respective cages and the proportion of females laying eggs determined. Eggs were conditioned and hatched 120 h post oviposition as described above and the total number of eggs fecundity and hatched larvae fertility from each female were recorded. To ensure that gravid females not sampled for oviposition could also lay eggs every cycle oviposition cups were introduced into each stock cage 96 h post blood meal for a period of 48 h. Females were then blood fed to initiate the next gonotrophic cycle.

Cages were sampled until all females in the population were dead which occurred after 7 and 16 gonotrophic cycles for PGYP 1 and PGYP1.tet strains respectively. To ensure PGYP1.tet females did not become depleted of sperm young males 3 days old were supplemented to this cage after 8 gonotrophic cycles. An analysis of covariance ANCOVA was used to examine the relationship between mosquito fecundity fertility and the covariates mosquito age and infection status. Regression analysis was used to detect trends in fecundity fertility of mosquitoes from each strain over their lifespan. Student s t test was used to compare the fecundity fertility of mosquitoes from both strains of the same age.

No significant differences in development times for larval stages of wMelPop infected PGYP1 or tetracycline cleared PGYP1.tet males were found MWU P 0.05 for all comparisons . In contrast the mean development time for male PGYP1 pupae 64.88 1.38 h was significantly greater relative to PGYP1.tet 57.00 1.25 h MWU U 1892.00 P

A comparison of the wing lengths of newly emerged adults from both strains revealed a minor yet statistically significant adult size cost to wMelPop infection for both sexes . Wing lengths of PGYP1 males 2.36 0.01 mm n 50 were significantly shorter than those of PGYP1.tet males 2.46 0.02 mm n 50 MWU U 661.50 P

The viability of quiescent embryos from the wMelPop infected PGYP1 strain decreased over time at 25 C. and 18 C. whereas viability of embryos from of the tetracycline treated PGYP1.tet strain was relatively stable at both storage temperatures . At 25 C. there was no significant difference in embryonic viability between PGYP1 80.93 5.12 and PGYP1.tet strains 74.96 4.37 at 5 days post oviposition MWU U 146.50 P 0.1478 . As quiescent embryos aged however PGYP1 embryonic viability decreased rapidly over time R 0.6539 F 260.73 P

PGYP1 and PGYP1.tet females had similar reproductive outputs in terms of the number of eggs oviposited and the number of viable larvae hatched per female during their first gonotrophic cycle and B . However during subsequent cycles both fecundity and fertility of PGYP1 females decreased at an accelerated rate relative to those from the PGYP1.tet strain ANCOVA P

For all experiments two laboratory lines of were used the PGYP1 line previously generated by transinfection with wMelPop and its cured control line PGYP1.tet see Example 2 . Mosquitoes were reared at 26 2 C. RH 75 with 12 h 12 h light dark cycle. Larvae were fed 0.1 mg larvae of TetraMin Tropical Tablets once per day. Females were separated from males at the pupal stage and placed into 300 mmcages for emergence at a density of 400 individuals per cage. The females were fed 10 sucrose solution ad libitum until the day before feeding trials.

Mosquito lines were screened to confirm presence PGYP1 or absence PGYP1.tet of infection every two generations using a PCR based assay. Five days after eclosion DNA was extracted from 10 females using DNeasy spin columns QIAGEN Australia following the Manufacturer s protocol. PCR was then carried out using primers for the IS5 transposable element present in see Example 1 . Reaction conditions were as follows 0.01 0.09 g of each DNA sample 2 l of 10 Buffer 0.5 l 1 mM dNTPs 0.5 l of 20 M IS5 primers 0.15 l Taq DNA polymerase and water up to 20 l. Samples were denatured for three minutes at 94 C. then cycled 34 times for 30 seconds at 94 C. 30 seconds at 55 C. and one minute at 72 C. This cycle was followed by a final 10 minute extension at 72 C. in a MJ Research PTC 200 Peltier Thermal Cycler Geneworks Pty Ltd SA . Presence of the expected size product was then confirmed by agarose gel electrophoresis.

Experiments were conducted with five 26 and 35 day old adult mosquitoes. Behaviours were measured in either small populations proportion of population fed number and length of attempted bites or for single mosquitoes depending on feasibility response time to human blood meal weight . The afternoon prior to each trial the required number of mosquitoes were removed from their rearing cages and stored in mesh covered holding buckets at a density of five mosquitoes per bucket. At the same time an additional population of five mosquitoes were set aside to replace any mosquitoes that died during the starvation period. Mosquitoes were starved of sucrose but given access to water for 16 hours until trials began the next morning. Prior to each trial mosquitoes were transferred from holding buckets into a 645 cmcage and allowed to acclimate for 5 minutes. All human volunteers cleaned both of their forearms with 70 isopropyl alcohol wipes rinsed their forearms with distilled water and dried them with paper towel and placed latex gloves on both their hands before feeding.

All population trials were carried out in two cages placed next to one another. One cage contained five PGYP1 mosquitoes and the adjacent cage contained five PGYP1.tet mosquitoes. The position left or right of the two lines was randomised throughout the experiment. Volunteers inserted their left and right arms into the respectively into the two cages and rested their hands on buckets placed within each cage. Both the volunteer and an external assistant monitored the number of attempted bites each mosquito made on the volunteer s forearm. An attempted bite was recorded when a mosquito landed and actively attempted to probe the volunteer s skin at a location. A single mosquito could probe multiple times at a single location but if a mosquito moved to a new position and attempted to probe again this new location was recorded as another attempted bite. Mosquitoes in both cages were monitored for 15 minutes before the volunteer shook their arms and withdrew both arms from the cages. Mosquito abdomens were examined for presence of a blood meal and the proportion of the population that imbibed a blood meal was recorded. This experiment was replicated with six volunteers 3 female 3 male 4 replicate trials for each of the three adult mosquito age classes.

A single mosquito from each line was separately aspirated into on a pre weighed 1.5 ml Eppendorf tube and weighted on a Satorius BP211D balance Selby Biolabs . Each mosquito was then released simultaneously into the adjacent 645 mmcages. Randomisation of cage position mosquito settlement time and trial length were as per population trials. The volunteer inserted his arms into the cage and the times at which mosquito s made their first attempted bite host seeking time were recorded by the volunteer into a voice recorder Olympus VN 1100 . After the trial mosquitoes were transferred back into the tubes they were originally weighed in and the tubes were re weighed. The weight of the blood meal imbibed by each mosquito was then calculated. The volunteer male hosted four groups of 10 mosquitoes from each of the three age classes.

All analysis was conducted using STATISTICA v8 StatSoft Inc . The variables host seeking time and blood meal weight were normally distributed. The number of attempted bites was transformed by square root to achieve normality. The role of infection and age on these variables was examined using general linear mixed models. The role of human volunteer was not examined as there were only 6 replicate individuals and they were internally controlled. When infection status was significant t tests were then used to further identify specific differences between infected and uninfected lines within each of the three age classes. The proportion of mosquitoes obtaining a blood meal did not respond to transformation and so non parametric Mann Whitney U tests tests were employed instead of linear models to examine differences between infected and uninfected mosquitoes for all three ages.

If the infected mosquitoes were hungrier than uninfected counterparts they might be more rapid in their response to an offered human forearm. Over the short distances in a laboratory cage environment infected mosquitoes were no different to uninfected controls F 0.10 df 1 P 0.77 in the time it took them to land on the human volunteer and initiate an attempted bite . Age of the mosquitoes was also not a significant determinant of time to first attempted bite F 0.99 df 2 P 0.43 . These data suggest that wMelPop does not alter mosquito capacity to sense and respond to human hosts in the laboratory.

The number of attempted bites made by infected mosquitoes was examined as a possible indicator of hunger. As per our methods an attempted bite included both probing and attempted probing in a particular region on the arm. Given the cage sizes and numbers of mosquitoes involved we could not visually differentiate between a probing event that broke the skin and one that did not. See the subsequent associated study by Moreira et al. for dissection of biting behaviour into successful and unsuccessful probing events see Example 9 . Infection status F 13.37 df 1 P 0.014 age of mosquitoes F 5.72 df 2 P 0.021 and the interaction between age and infection status F 5.76 df 2 P 0.021 were significant determinants in the number of attempted bites made. In particular infected mosquitoes at 26 t 3.70 df 238 P

Blood meal weight was examined as a measure of feeding success in the infected mosquitoes. Linear models revealed that blood meal weight could be partially explained by the infection status F 87.07 df 1 P

Normally during biting a mosquito may probe unsuccessfully but will ultimately insert its stylet into a host. In this study infected mosquitoes were observed in which the proboscis repeatedly bent as the mosquito pushed its head towards the skin while probing. This phenotype appeared to be correlated with old age and poor ability to obtain a blood meal. Due to its correlation with old age the behaviour was not observed in the study until much of the other work was completed hence its quantification and correlation with biting success is reported in another study see Example 9 .

Fertilized and non blood fed females of different ages 5 15 26 and 35 days old were used in all behaviour experiments. Sucrose solutions were removed from cages on the night before the experiments. Forty females were used per age and per infectious status. Single mosquitoes were transferred to a transparent Perspex cage 25 cm and filmed through a digital camera with 6 mm Microlens IEEE 1394 Point Grey Research mounted on a tripod. Mosquitoes were given about five minutes to settle within the cage before a human gloved hand was inserted into the cage. A window of about 15 cmwas cut of the upper part of the latex glove in order to delineate the probing field.

Movies were recorded QuickTime Player for a maximum of 10 minutes or until blood was seen within the mosquito midgut and subsequentially watched for time calculations. Two electronic timers were used one for recording pre probing time and the second for probing time. Pre probing time was defined and the time since the mosquito has landed on the bare hand area until the insertion of mouthparts into the human skin. Probing time is defined as the initial insertion of insect mouthparts until blood can be seen within the mosquito midgut through the abdominal pleura Ribeiro et al. 1984 . Timing stopped when mosquitoes left the bare hand area or withdrew their mouthparts before taking blood and began again when the mosquito came back or after subsequent stylet penetration. If blood was not found by the end of 10 minutes we defined this case as unsuccessful probing and it was measured as a proportion. Movies were also used to visualize additional abnormal phenotypes as the jittering action of mosquito body while landed on top of the human hand and named shaky . Furthermore the inability of mosquitoes to insert their mouthparts due to a bendy proboscis Example 8 was also analysed.

Mosquitoes of different ages 5 26 and 35 days old and infectious status were starved overnight without sucrose solution or water . On the following morning mosquitoes were briefly anesthetized with COand placed on a glass plate over ice. Wings and legs were removed with forceps and their proboscis introduced into a 1 cm piece of polypropylene tubing 0.61 0.28 mm Microtube Extrusions NSW Australia see Ribeiro et al. 1984 . Females were allowed to salivate for 5 minutes and then the diameter of the saliva droplets was measured through an ocular micrometer at 40 magnification. Volumes were calculated via the sphere formula Novak et al. 1995 . Saliva was then collected into 20 L of 0.05 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 by attaching the needle of a 10 L Hamilton syringe and rinsing the tubing content a few times. Samples were centrifuged at 14 000 g for 2 minutes and kept frozen 80 C. in 20 L of 0.05 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 for enzymatic assay see below .

Saliva samples 8 L were transferred in duplicates into individual wells of a plastic 96 well ELISA plate NUNC Maxisorp . For the blank 8 L of the 0.05 mM Tris buffer was added to the wells. To each well 100 L was added of a mixture containing 100 mM NaCl 50 mM Tris HCl pH 8.95 5 mM CaCl 2 mM ATP and 20 mM B Mercapthanol. The plate was incubated at 37 C. for 10 min and then the reaction was immediately stopped by adding 25 uL of acid molybdate solution 1.25 ammonium molybdate in 2.5 mM HSO . Immediately after termination of the reaction 2 L of a reducing solution 0.11 mM NaHSO 0.09 mM NaSOand 8 mM 1 amino 2 naphthol 4 sulphonic acid was added to each well and the plate was incubated at 37 C. for 20 min Novak et al. 1995 . Plates were read at a FLUOstar OPTIMA ELISA plate reader BMG Technologies at 660 nm. Readings were quantified by comparison with an inorganic phosphate standard curve 1 0.5 0.25 0.125 0.06125 0.03125 0.015625 mM of sodium phosphate .

In all cases general linear models were employed to examine the effects of the variables age and infection status and their interaction with one another. Models demonstrating significance for the variable infection status were then followed by individual t tests examining the differences between infected and uninfected mosquitoes for each age class. The proportion of infected and uninfected mosquitoes that obtained blood meals were examined using Mann Whitney U tests instead of linear models given the deviation of the data from normality. Chi square 2 2 contingency tests were employed to examine the relationship between observed behavioural traits and lack of feeding success. The correlation between these traits was quantified using a cox proportional hazards model for age with the behavioural traits and lack of blood meal success covariates. All statistical analyses were carried out in STATISTICA v8 StatSoft Inc. Tulsa Okla. .

We measured the time mosquitoes spent from first contact with a human volunteer until the insertion of the insect s mouthparts as a measure of pre probing time. All feeding trials were carried out with individual mosquitoes which had been starved prior to the assay at four adult ages 5 15 26 and 35 days old . Mosquitoes that never successfully achieved a blood meal were excluded from this analysis. Overall both age df 3 F 13.73 P

In the same feeding trials described above the length of time between insertion of mouthparts and the first visible sign of blood in the abdominal pleura Ribeiro et al. 1984 was recorded as probing time for the mosquitoes. As with pre probing time the variables of age df 3 F 11.36 P

In the assays detailed above we then compared the ability of infected and uninfected mosquitoes to obtain blood meals using Mann Whitney U tests. At 5 Z 0 P 1 and 15 Z 0 P 1 days of age infected and uninfected mosquitoes did not differ in their success. At 26 Z 2.39 P 0.020 and 35 Z 2.39 P 0.020 days of age infected mosquitoes were less successful at obtaining blood meals in comparison to their uninfected counterparts.

It is important to note that as infected mosquitoes aged the frequency of events where they pierced the skin did not increase despite failed attempts at feeding . A general linear model revealed that age df 3 F 20.47 P

In other work we have reported the appearance of a bendy proboscis in association with wMelPop which was the inability of the mosquito to properly orient its mouthparts and insert the stylet into the skin Example 8 . During the feeding trials in this study we quantified the occurrence of this trait. The bendy proboscis was never observed in any of the uninfected mosquitoes regardless of age nor was it present in 5 day old infected mosquitoes. The trait first appeared at a low level 2.5 in 15 day old mosquitoes and rose to a frequency of 65 by 35 days of age . Another phenotype observed although in lower frequencies was the jittering action of the insect body named here as shaky when the mosquito was sitting on top of the human hand . The association between each of these traits and lack of success in blood meal acquisition was explored using 2 2 contingency tests in each of the age classes where the trait was expressed. There was a significant association between the failure to obtain a blood meal and both the bendy phenotype 26 d df 1 2 14.1 P 0.0002 35 d df 1 2 11.8 P 0.0006 and the shaky phenotype 35 d df 1 2 4.2 P 0.038 . Using survival analysis we obtained estimates of the correlation between lack of feeding success and the bendy phenotype 0.63 and the shaky phenotype 0.19 . These correlations reveal the presence of a relationship between the traits and success in feeding but do not completely explain lack of success. There are mosquitoes in the older age classes that fail to feed and that are not shaky or bendy. To discard any possibility that this other abnormal phenotypes were due to the lack of blood feeding which could have physiologically compromised the mosquitoes we also blood fed females of both groups when they were 3 to 5 days old and then after 38 days evaluated their feeding behaviour. None of the wMelPop mosquitoes were able to feed and all presented the bendy proboscis although all the tetracycline treated mosquitoes successfully imbibed blood data not shown .

To check whether the probing behaviour and the additional phenotypes we observed were due to differences in saliva volume and salivary gland apyrase activity we measured both traits in infected and uninfected mosquitoes at three adult ages. Apyrase activity did not differ in infected and uninfected mosquitoes regardless of age df 1 F 0.44 P 0.51 . Infection status df 1 F 11.99 P

In an attempt to interpret the effects of on host feeding behaviour we tested for the presence of in the saliva and salivary glands of infected mosquitoes. PCR amplification of the wsp gene or mosquito apyrase has shown only the presence of in salivary glands but not in saliva . The transposable element IS5 present in at least 13 copies within the bacteria genome Wu et al. 2004 was also used in extra samples as a very sensistive PCR target N 16 of each group but no amplification was obtained. These results are supported by the size of the intracellular around 1 m in diameter Min and Benzer 1997 and the diameter of mosquito salivary ducts also about 1 m Janzen and Wright 1971 which indicate that even if was able to be present in the secreted salivary fluid it would be unlikely to be able to freely move through the salivary ducts.

We have recently sequenced the complete wMelPop and wMelPop CLA genomes and we have identified by using a comparative genomics approach a series of mutations that have occurred during the 3 years in cell culture. These mutations are part of the wMelPop CLA strain present in the transinfected mosquitoes.

The wMelPop CLA strain has at least 5 major genetic differences with the original wMelPop strain. These differences include gene insertions deletions and single nucleotide polymorphisms SNPs . The combination of these 5 elements is unique to wMelPop CLA and can be used to differentiate this strain from any other strain including very closely related strains such as wMelCS. As a result of these genetic differences the wMelPop CLA genome is approximately 20952 bp smaller that wMelPop 1247197 bp vs 1268149 bp .

The gene WD0200 encodes for a hypothetical protein according to the wMel genome annotation Wu et al. 2004 . During the adaptation of wMelPop to mosquito cell culture in our laboratory the sequence of this gene has mutated resulting in the substitution of a C residue for a T in wMelPop CLA . This nucleotide change results in the replacement of an aspartic acid D for asparagine N in the C terminus of the encoded protein. The presence of this mutation has been confirmed by PCR and sequencing of the wMelPop and wMelPop CLA strains.

Gene WD0413 encodes an aspartyl tRNA synthetase aspS 6.1.1.12 involved in protein biosynthesis. Following the sequencing of wMelPop and wMelPop CLA WD0413 we have identified a 10 bp deletion in wMelPop CLA that was not present prior to cell culture adaptation .

This 10 bp deletion occurs just before the TGA stop codon and creates a frameshift that extends the wMelPop CLA encoded protein by an extra 10 aminoacids before a new stop codon is read .

IS5 insertion elements are common transposable elements identified in several genomes. The IS5 insertion element is 918 bp long and is constituted by two ORFs OrfA and B flanked by a terminal inverted repeat. The closely related wMel genome Wu et al. 2004 contains 13 identical IS5 elements. wMelPop also contains 13 IS5 elements although 2 of them have translocated when compared to wMel.

The novel IS5 insertion present in the wMelPop CLA strain is located in the intergenic region between the genes WD0765 and WD0766 . WD0765 encodes a Na H ion antiporter family protein whereas WD0766 encodes an ankyrin domain protein. The role of both proteins in is currently unknown although the expression of these two genes is probably affected by the insertion of this IS5 element in the middle of their promoter region.

The wMelPop CLA strain contains a 21.6 Kb deletion when compared to the original wMelPop strain . This deletion includes 13 genes WD0506 to WD0518 whose putative function is listed in Table 7. Since the 2 genes flaking the deletion WD0506 and WD0518 are the result of a duplication event and have similar sequences the exact coordinates of the 21.6 kb deletion are difficult to determine. Several of the genes present in the deletion have homologues elsewhere in the genome and 3 of them WD0512 WD0513 and WD0514 are part of an operon in those strains wMel wMelPop wMelCS where the genes are present.

The presence of a similar 21.6 Kb deletion was previously described by our group in the wAu strain Iturbe Ormaetxe et al. 2005 although none of the other four wMelPop CLA unique features have been found in wAu.

We have also identified WD0513 as a potential candidate for horizontal gene transfer between mosquitoes and Woolfit et al. 2009 .

Gene WD0758 encodes for a glutaredoxin family protein. This gene contains an extra G at position 196 in wMelPop CLA when compared with its counterpart in wMelPop. This mutation creates a premature stop codon in wMelPop CLA and as a consequence the WD0758 protein is 46 residues shorter in wMelPop CLA than in wMelPop . The effect of this mutation on the function of WD0758 is currently unknown.

Three of the 5 described genetic features that distinguish wMelPop CLA from its predecessor wMelPop can be easily identified and diagnosed by PCR as shown in . The identification of the SNP in WD0200 and the insertion of a G in WD0758 require PCR amplification and sequencing.

The use of an in vitro cell culture system provided an ideal means to examine the adaptation of to a novel host environment. This approach contrasts with directly transferring between insects where selective forces are presumably different and more complex and where longer insect generation times vertical transmission and the labour intensive nature of rearing live insects make selection for transinfected lines challenging.

The initial difficulty in establishing wMelPop infection in the cell line Aa23 demonstrated that wMelPop was not naturally pre adapted for growth in mosquito cells. Following stable infection of Aa23 and serial passage for several years wMelPop was successfully established in RML 12 and MOS 55 cell lines two species that are not naturally infected by Curtis and Sinkins 1998 Kittayapong et al. 2000 Rasgon and Scott 2004 Ricci et al. 2002 Tsai et al. 2004 . Transfer of wMelPop between Aa23 and these two mosquito cell lines occurred much more readily than the initial transfer from to Aa23 potentially due to i a higher infective dose of wMelPop purified from Aa23 and used for transfer and ii a smaller divergence in intracellular environments among these mosquito cell lines as opposed to the initial transfer from . The cell line adapted displayed reduced infectivity and maternal transmission when injected back into its original host. It grew to lower densities and showed phenotypic shifts for both life shortening and CI expression. Taken together these results provide evidence for the active genetic adaptation of wMelPop to mosquito cell lines during long term serial passage.

A comparison of results from this study with simulations from recent theoretical models that examine the potential of life shortening to modify mosquito population age structure Brownstein et al. 2003 Rasgon et al. 2003 suggests that wMelPop should be able to initiate a population invasion of . Given the relationship that exists between mosquito survival and vectorial capacity Garett 1964 MacDonald 1957 if the longevity of adults can be approximately halved under field conditions as observed in our laboratory experiments then the introduction of life shortening strains would be predicted to reduce pathogen transmission and the incidence of human disease.

Vertically inherited parasites like are predicted to evolve towards reduced virulence over time Lipsitch and Moxon 1997 . Unlike chemical insecticides biological agents that induce mortality in late life such as wMelPop or entomopathogenic fungi are expected to impose relatively weak selection pressures for the evolution of resistance Thomas and Reed 2007 . This is because the majority of individuals in the population are able to initiate several reproductive cycles prior to death minimizing costs to reproductive output. Moreover since the initial description of wMelPop in over ten years ago no signs of resistance to life shortening have emerged in laboratory stocks.

Furthermore our finding that the wMelPop infection eliminates the ability of dengue virus to establish a productive infection has significant implications for any future control measure based on the use of life shortening . Life shortening effects on mosquitoes would become secondary and only act on any rare individuals that might escape the direct interference effect. We could also presume that because of the observed effects on dengue virus accumulation that any mosquitoes that did escape the interference effect despite the presence of would likely have extended extrinsic incubation periods. This in turn would act synergistically with the life shortening effect to eliminate dengue virus transmission.

Our recent studies have also revealed that as infected with wMelPop CLA age they show increasing difficulty in completing the process of blood feeding effectively and efficiently. These effects on blood feeding behaviour may reduce vectorial capacity and point to underlying physiological changes in infected mosquitoes.

Thus the ability of to spread into and populations and persist over time may provide an inexpensive approach to dengue and malaria control particularly in urban areas that are less amenable to conventional control strategies. Given the ability of wMelPop to induce life shortening cytoplasmic incompatibility altered feeding behaviour and reduced pathogen susceptibility in a range of insect hosts this strategy may be broadly applicable to reduce pathogen transmission by other insect disease vectors of medical or agricultural importance.

The fact that many insect species are infected with raises the possibility that mediated antiviral protection could be a widespread phenomenon. To test the generality of mediated antiviral protection further the inventors used and its naturally occurring infections.

With the exception of the Me29 flies infected by wMel natural host combinations were used. The strains are known to be associated with different mitochondrial haplotypes Ballard 2000 and we did not control for host nuclear genetic background which can have an impact on virus infection Teixeira et al. 2008 . As a consequence it is not possible to rule out that intrinsic variability in susceptibility to virus that is linked to the host background has an influence on the outcome of mediated protection in our experiments. Indeed there is variation in the time to death of free lines used in this study when challenged with DCV see although interestingly these same free lines showed similar time to death when challenged with FHV see . Antiviral protection was observed in both and when infected with wMel. This indicates that antiviral protection mediated by can be transferred between different host species.

Since protection against DCV was not seen in all the fly lines infected with the strains we tested whether there is specificity in protection against different viruses. Infection of by protected the flies from all RNA viruses tested see Example 4 and Teixeira et al. 2008 . Although each of these viruses was a non enveloped positive sense RNA virus the viruses come from a broad spectrum of virus families. Compared to DCV the most divergent of these viruses is FHV. DCV is a member of the Dicistroviridae family and has a single genomic RNA that is not capped but is polyadenylated Christian et al. 2005 . The genome is a bicistronic mRNA from which the structural and non structural polyproteins are translated via internal ribosome entry sites Wilson et al. 2000 Johnson and Christian 1998 Sasaki and Nakashima 1999 . DCV RNA replication occurs on membranes derived from the golgi Cherry et al. 2006 . In contrast the nodavirus FHV genome comprises two mRNA sense RNAs which are capped but not polyadenylated and a third subgenomic RNA is synthesised during replication Ball and Johnson 1998 . FHV genome replication occurs on mitochondrial membranes Kopek et al. 2007 Miller et al. 2001 . Interestingly although DCV and FHV have distinct infection cycles the same strains protected lines from both DCV and FHV induced mortality. This suggests that the mechanism of protection from virus induced mortality may be common across diverse viruses although it is not currently known what the mechanism of viral pathogenesis is in flies infected with either DCV or FHV. It remains to be seen whether the same host combinations that do or do not protect against DCV and FHV have similar outcomes for other viruses or indeed other types of pathogens.

Concurrent with protection from virus induced mortality in was a delay in accumulation of DCV see Example 4 . Here a similar result was seen with wMel protection in the amount of infectious virus accumulated 2 dpi was significantly lower in infected flies. By 10 dpi the DCV titre in infected flies was similar to the day 2 titre for free flies. This may suggest that the resistance to DCV accumulation protects the flies from DCV induced mortality however the results observed with the strains complicate this interpretation. The CO flies infected with wAu survived DCV infection beyond 30 dpi whereas the free flies were clearly susceptible to DCV induced mortality. wAu infected flies had by 10 dpi accumulated high titres of DCV and the virus titre remained high at 30 dpi. This shows that wAu infected flies were tolerant of DCV infection that is the virus accumulated but did not cause mortality Schneider and Ayres 2008 . Interestingly although wRi infected DSR flies were protected from DCV induced mortality at 2 dpi there was no difference in virus accumulation in flies with and without wRi. We cannot rule out that accumulation was delayed in wRi infected flies earlier than 2 dpi.

Taken together our results indicate that mediated antiviral protection could arise in flies in two ways. can interfere with the virus infection cycle to delay virus accumulation that is it can induce resistance to virus infection in the host. In addition infection can protect flies from the pathogenesis associated with virus infection that is it can increase host tolerance to virus infection. The processes or mechanisms involved in resistance and tolerance may be the same independent or overlap. Our results show that strains can induce both resistance and tolerance to DCV infection but importantly prolonged resistance is not a requirement for protection against DCV induced mortality. These results are consistent with those reported for FHV in infected where there was no difference in FHV accumulation 6 dpi but infection protected flies from FHV induced mortality Teixeira et al. 2008 .

The strains of that mediate antiviral protection were anticipated to be present at higher density in infected flies Giordano et al. 1995 Sinkins et al. 1995 . We confirmed the density of in the particular fly lines used in this study correlated with protection. The density of was assayed in whole flies as previous assays have shown that in addition to reproductive tissues somatic tissues are commonly infected with Dobson et al. 1999 Ijichi et al. 2002 . Further experiments controlling the density of a single strain are required to determine if high density is a pre requisite for antiviral protection.

The mechanisms or processes by which protects the host from virus are not yet understood. The correlation of high bacterial density of the strains that protect the host suggests that density may be important for antiviral protection. Potentially protection may require a threshold of density to be exceeded which would be consistent with protection being a consequence of competition between the two intracellular microbes for limited host resources. Antiviral protection may also be dependent on the distribution of between tissue or cell types. have been identified in a range of somatic and reproductive tissues in insects and are known to display variable tissue tropism depending on infecting strain and host combination Dobson et al. 1999 Ijichi et al. 2002 Miller and Riegler 2006 . Late in infection DCV is widely distributed in tissues including both reproductive and somatic tissues Cherry and Perrimon 2004 Jousset et al. 1972 Lautie Harivel and Thomas Orillard 1990 giving abundant opportunity for overlap with distribution. However little is known about the spread of virus from the initial infection site or if replication of the virus is equivalent in all of the susceptible tissues. It is possible that there are tissues or cell types that are critical to virus replication or pathogenesis and that mediated protection occurs by exclusion or regulation of virus in these tissues. In addition if particular tissues are critical for pathogenesis tolerance may be a result of protection of those tissues.

The relatively close phylogenetic relationships of the strains that do confer antiviral protection compared to non protective strains suggests that other features of the strains could determine the outcome of virus infection. Protection via both resistance and tolerance could be induced by modulation of host antiviral responses by . For example proteins from the ankyrin family which can play a role in innate immune pathways vary considerably both in number and sequence between strains Duron et al. 2007 Iturbe Ormaetxe et al. 2005 Walker et al. 2007 . Interestingly defence against bacterial infection in flies via the melanisation response has been shown to involve both resistance and tolerance effects Ayres and Schneider 2008 .

Throughout the specification the aim has been to describe the preferred embodiments of the invention without limiting the invention to any one embodiment or specific collection of features. It will therefore be appreciated by those of skill in the art that in light of the instant disclosure various modifications and changes can be made in the particular embodiments exemplified without departing from the scope of the present invention.

All computer programs algorithms patent and scientific literature referred to herein is incorporated herein by reference.

