---

title: Copper film-forming composition, and method for producing copper film by using the composition
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09028599&OS=09028599&RS=09028599
owner: Adeka Corporation
number: 09028599
owner_city: Arakawa-Ku
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140806
---
This invention relates to a copper film forming composition for forming copper films on various substrates and also to a process for forming a copper film by applying the composition onto a substrate and heating the same.

Numerous reports have been made on technologies for the formation of electrically conductive layers or wirings which use copper as an electrical conductor by a metal organic decomposition process MOD process or fine particle dispersion deposition process as a liquid process.

Processes for producing a series of articles with a copper firm formed thereon are proposed for example in Patent Documents 1 to 4. These processes are each characterized by applying a liquid mixture which contains copper hydroxide or an organic acid copper salt and a polyhydric alcohol as essential components onto one of various substrates and heating the substrate at a temperature of 165 C. or higher in a non oxidizing atmosphere. For use in such liquid processes copper formate is disclosed as an organic acid copper salt and diethanolamine and triethanolamine are disclosed as polyhydric alcohols.

Patent Document 5 contains a proposal on a metal paste which contains fine silver particles and a copper containing organic compound and can form a metal film of excellent solder heat resistance on an underlying electrode. As the copper containing organic compound for use in the paste copper formate is disclosed and as an amino compound to be reacted with copper formate to prepare a paste diethanolamine is disclosed.

In Patent Document 6 a proposal is made on a metal salt mixture for forming a metal pattern useful as a circuit. As components that make up the mixture copper formate is disclosed as a metal salt in addition to organic components. As the organic components diethanolamine N methyldiethanolamine N ethyldiethanolamine and morpholine are disclosed as organic solvents and pyridine is disclosed as a ligand for the metal.

Patent Document 7 discloses a low temperature degradable copper precursor composition useful for the formation of electronic wirings or a like purpose. The composition contains copper formate and a 3 dialkylaminopropane 1 2 diol compound both of which are thermally degradable at low temperatures after printing.

Disclosed in Patent Document 8 is a composition for forming a thin copper film. The composition contains copper formate and an alkanolamine and is useful in the above mentioned liquid processes. As alkanolamines monoethanolamine diethanolamine and triethanolamine are exemplified.

To economically produce fine wirings or thin films in a liquid process that uses a copper film forming composition it is desired to provide a composition that satisfies the requirements to be described hereinafter. Described specifically the composition is desired to be of a solution type which is free of a solid phase such as fine particles to provide a copper film excellent in electrical conductivity to be convertible to a copper film at a low temperature to be good in coating properties to be good in storage stability and to be easy to control the thickness of a film to be obtained by a single application especially to permit forming a thick film through a single application. However no copper film forming composition is known yet to fully satisfy all of these requirements.

Therefore an object of the present invention is to provide a copper film forming composition which fully satisfies all of the above described requirements. A more specific object of the present invention is to provide a copper film forming composition which is in the form of a solution free of a solid phase such as fine particles and can obtain a copper film of sufficient electrical conductivity when applied onto a substrate and heated at a relatively low temperature. Another more specific object of the present invention is to provide a copper film forming composition which by similarly adjusting the concentration of copper in its components can control the thickness of a film to be obtained through a single application and can conveniently perform the production of a copper film with a desired thickness.

As a result of a great deal of consideration with the above described circumstances in view the present inventors found that a copper film forming composition which contains copper formate or a hydrate thereof copper acetate or a hydrate thereof a diol compound having a specific structure and a piperidine compound having a specific structure in particular proportions satisfies the above described required performance leading to the present invention.

Described specifically the present invention provides a copper film forming composition comprising as essential components 0.01 to 3.0 mol kg of copper formate or a hydrate thereof 0.01 to 3.0 mol kg of copper acetate or a hydrate thereof at least one diol compound selected from the group consisting of diol compounds represented by the below described formula 1 and diol compounds represented by the below described formula 1 a piperidine compound represented by the below described formula 2 and an organic solvent with the copper formate or the hydrate thereof the copper acetate or the hydrate thereof the at least one diol compound and the piperidine compound dissolved therein 

wherein when a content of the copper formate or the hydrate thereof is assumed to be 1 mol kg the diol compound is contained in a range of 0.1 to 6.0 mol kg and the piperidine compound is contained in a range of 0.1 to 6.0 mol kg 

The present invention also provides a process for producing a copper film comprising the following steps applying onto a substrate the above described copper film forming composition and then heating the substrate at 100 to 400 C. to form a copper film.

According to the present invention a copper film forming composition is provided which is in the form of a solution free of a solid phase such as fine particles and can obtain a copper film of sufficient electrical conductivity when applied onto a substrate and heated at a relatively low temperature. By suitably adjusting the concentrations of the copper formate or the hydrate thereof and the copper acetate or the hydrate thereof the copper film forming composition according to the present invention can control the thickness of a film to be obtained through a single application and therefore can produce a copper film with a desired thickness.

One of characteristic features of the copper film forming composition according to the present invention resides in the use of copper formate as a precursor for a copper film. Copper formate for use in the present invention may be a non hydrate or may be hydrated. Specifically anhydrous copper II formate copper II formate dihydrate copper II formate tetrahydrate and the like can be used. Such copper formate may be mixed as it is or may be mixed as an aqueous solution a solution in an organic solvent or a suspension in an organic solvent.

The content of copper formate in the copper film forming composition according to the present invention may be adjusted as desired according to the thickness of a desired copper film. For example the content of copper formate may be preferably 0.01 to 3.0 mol kg more preferably 0.1 to 2.5 mol kg.

Here it is to be noted that the term mol kg as used herein means the physical quantity of a solute dissolved per kg of solution . For example when copper formate and copper acetate are dissolved as much as 63.55 g in terms of copper in 1 kg of the copper film forming composition according to the present invention the copper concentration is considered to be 1.0 mol kg. When 153.58 g of copper formate is dissolved in 1 kg of the copper film forming composition according to the present invention the copper concentration is likewise considered to be 1.0 mol kg because the molecular weight of copper II formate is 153.58.

Another one of the characteristic features of the present invention resides in the use of copper acetate as a control agent for the concentration of copper in combination with copper formate described above. Copper acetate for use in the present invention may be a non hydrate or may be hydrated. Specifically anhydrous copper II acetate copper II acetate monohydrate and the like can be used. Like copper formate such copper acetate may be mixed as it is or may be mixed as an aqueous solution a solution in an organic solvent or a suspension in an organic solvent. According to a study by the present inventors the formulation of a copper film forming composition by making combined use of copper formate in addition to copper acetate can provide the resulting copper film with improved electrical properties. When copper II acetate monohydrate molecular weight 199.65 is used for example its inclusion at 1.0 mol kg means that 199.65 g of copper II acetate monohydrate is contained in 1 kg of the copper film forming composition according to the present invention as described above.

According to another study by the present inventors the combined use of copper acetate in addition to copper acetate can obtain a copper film forming composition of a lower viscosity compared with the preparation of a copper film forming composition of the same copper concentration from copper formate alone. When a copper film forming composition is used as a coating formulation in a coating method represented by inkjet coating or spin coating a higher viscosity may generally lead to deteriorations in coating properties. In contrast to this the copper film forming composition according to the present invention can remain low in viscosity and can maintain coating properties even when its copper concentration is high.

As copper acetate has very high solubility in the copper film forming composition the concentration of copper in the copper film forming composition can be made high compared with the control of the concentration of copper with copper formate alone in the copper film forming composition. The concentration of copper in the copper film forming composition gives a significant effect on the thickness of a copper film to be formed by a coating method. In contrast to this the copper film forming composition according to the present invention has high stability and high coating properties even when the concentration of copper is high and therefore is also excellent in the controllability of the thickness of a copper film to be obtained from the composition. When a copper film is produced for example with the copper film forming composition according to the present invention by such a coating method as described above the copper film can be formed as a smooth electrically conductive film having an appropriate thickness in a wide range of several tens to 1 000 nm by a single application.

The content of copper acetate in the copper film forming composition according to the present invention may be adjusted as desired according to the thickness of a desired copper film. The content of copper acetate may be preferably in a range of 0.01 to 3.0 mol kg with 0.1 to 2.5 mol kg being more preferred.

No particular limitation is imposed on the concentration ratio of copper formate to copper acetate in the copper film forming composition according to the present invention. Preferably however the composition may be prepared such that 40 or more of the whole copper concentration in the composition is attributable to the addition of copper formate. Further a substantially equal 1 1 concentration ratio of copper formate to copper acetate can obtain a film of excellent electrical characteristics and therefore is particularly preferred.

The dial compound which is represented by the below described formula 1 or 1 and is a component that makes up the copper film forming composition according to the present invention is characterized by having one or more amino groups. According to a further study by the present inventors the diol compound exhibits effectiveness as a solubilizer for copper formate or a copper formate hydrate provides the copper film forming composition with storage stability and further is effective in providing improved electrical conductivity when converted to a film.

In the formula 1 X denotes a hydrogen atom methyl group ethyl group or 3 aminopropyl group. In the formula 1 on the other hand Rand Reach independently indicate a hydrogen atom or an alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms or may be fused together to form a 5 membered ring or 6 membered ring in combination with the adjacent N. As the alkyl group having 1 to 4 carbon atoms methyl ethyl propyl 2 propyl butyl 2 butyl isobutyl or tertiary butyl can be mentioned. Examples of the 5 or 6 membered ring which Rand Rmay form by their fusion together in combination with the adjacent N include pyrrole pyrrolidine methylpyrrolidine pyridine 2 methylpyridine 3 methylpyridine 4 methylpyridine 2 4 lutidine 2 6 lutidine piperidine 2 methylpiperidine 3 methylpiperidine and 4 methylpiperidine.

Examples of the diol compound represented by the formula 1 include the following compound No. 1 to No. 4.

Examples of the diol compound represented by the formula 1 include the following compound No. 5 to No. 13.

Among the above enumerated diol compounds diethanolamine Compound No. 1 N methyldiethanolamine Compound No. 2 N ethyldiethanolamine Compound No. 3 N aminopropyldiethanolamine Compound No 4 and 3 dimethylamino 1 2 propanediol Compound No. 8 are preferred because they provide the resulting copper film forming compositions with particularly good storage stability. Further diethanolamine Compound No. 1 N methyldiethanolamine Compound No. 2 N ethyldiethanolamine Compound No. 3 and N aminopropyldiethanolamine Compound No 4 are particularly preferred because their uses provide the resulting films with good electrical conductivity.

Among those enumerated above N methyldiethanolamine Compound No. 2 is still more preferred because its use enables the conversion to a copper film at a low heating temperature.

The content of the above described diol compound in the copper film forming composition according to the present invention is required to be in a range of 0.1 to 6.0 mol kg when the content of the copper formate or the hydrate thereof is assumed to be 1 mol kg. A content lower than 0.1 mol kg provides the resulting copper film with insufficient electrical conductivity while a content higher than 6.0 mol kg leads to deteriorations in coating properties so that no uniform copper film can be obtained. A more preferred range is 0.2 to 5.0 mol kg. The above described diol compounds may be used either singly or as a combination of two or more thereof.

The piperidine compound represented by the below described formula 2 which is an essential component for the copper film forming composition according to the present invention provides the resulting copper film forming composition with good coating properties and storage stability when it is incorporated.

Examples of the piperidine compound represented by the formula 2 which constitutes the present invention include the following compound No. 14 to No. 20.

Among the above exemplified piperidine compounds the use of the compound No. 15 is particularly preferred in the present invention. A copper film forming composition equipped with especially good coating properties and storage stability can be obtained by using the compound No. 15.

The content of the above described piperidine compound in the copper film forming composition according to the present invention is required to be in a range of 0.1 to 6.0 mol kg when the content of copper formate is assumed to be 1 mol kg. A content lower than 0.1 mol kg leads to deteriorations in coating properties so that no uniform copper film can be obtained while a content higher than 6.0 mol kg provides the resulting copper film with insufficient electrical conductivity. A more preferred range of the content of the piperidine compound is 0.2 to 5.0 mol kg.

According to a still further study by the present inventors it is preferred to control the sum of the contents of the diol compound and piperidine compound in a range of 0.5 to 2.0 mol kg in the copper film forming composition according to the present invention when the sum of the used amounts of copper formate and copper acetate is assumed to be 1 mol kg because the composition is provided with good coating properties and storage stability and the resulting film is provided with good electrical conductivity. A sum smaller than 0.5 mol kg may result in the occurrence of a precipitate while a sum greater than 2 mol kg may lead to deteriorations in coating properties. Neither such an excessively small sum nor such an unduly great sum is preferred accordingly. A more preferred range of the sum of the contents of the diol compound and piperidine compound may be 1 to 1.5 mol kg.

No particular limitation is imposed on the concentration ratio of the diol compound to the piperidine compound in the copper film forming composition according to the present invention. Preferably however the concentration of piperidine compound may be in a range of 0.5 to 1.5 mol kg when the concentration of the diol compound is assumed to be 1 mol kg. It is particularly preferred when the concentration of the piperidine compound is 1 mol kg substantially equal to that of the diol compound because the resulting solution is good in stability and can obtain a film excellent in electrical characteristics.

As the organic solvent that makes up the copper film forming composition according to the present invention any organic solvent is usable insofar it can stably dissolve the diol compound and piperidine compound. The organic solvent can be either a single component system or a mixture. Examples of the organic solvent for use in the composition according to the present invention include alcohol based solvents diol based solvents ketone based solvents ester based solvents ether based solvents aliphatic or alicyclic hydrocarbon based solvents aromatic hydrocarbon based solvents cyano containing hydrocarbon solvents and other solvents.

Illustrative of the alcohol based solvents are methanol ethanol propanol isopropanol 1 butanol isobutanol 2 butanol tertiary butanol pentanol isopentanol 2 pentanol neopentanol tertiary pentanol hexanol 2 hexanol heptanol 2 heptanol octanol 2 ethlhexanol 2 octanol cyclopentanol cyclohexanol cycloheptanol methylcyclopentanol methylcyclohexanol methylcycloheptanol benzyl alcohol ethylene glycol monoacetate ethylene glycol monoethyl ether ethylene glycol monophenyl ether ethylene glycol monobutyl ether ethylene glycol monomethyl ether propylene glycol monomethyl ether propylene glycol monoethyl ether diethylene glycol monomethyl ether diethylene glycol monoethyl ether dipropylene glycol monomethyl ether dipropylene glycol monoethyl ether dipropylene glycol monobutyl ether 2 2 methoxyethoxy ethanol 2 N N dimethylamino ethanol 3 N N dimethylamino propanol and the like.

Illustrative of the diol based solvents are ethylene glycol propylene glycol 1 2 butanediol 1 3 butanediol 1 4 butanediol 1 5 pentanediol neopentyl glycol isoprene glycol 3 methyl 1 3 butanediol 1 2 hexanediol 1 6 hexanediol 3 methyl 1 5 pentanediol 1 2 octanediol octanediol 2 ethyl 1 3 hexanediol 2 butyl 2 ethyl 1 3 propanediol 2 5 dimethyl 2 5 hexanediol 1 2 cyclohexanediol 1 4 cyclohexanediol 1 4 cyclohexanedimethanol and the like.

Illustrative of the ketone based solvents are acetone ethyl methyl ketone methyl butyl ketone methyl isobutyl ketone ethyl butyl ketone dipropyl ketone diisobutyl ketone methyl amyl ketone cyclohexanone methylcyclohexanone and the like.

Illustrative of the ester based solvents are methyl formate ethyl formate methyl acetate ethyl acetate isopropyl acetate butyl acetate isobutyl acetate sec butyl acetate tert butyl acetate amyl acetate isoamyl acetate tert amyl acetate phenyl acetate methyl propionate ethyl propionate isopropyl propionate butyl propionate isobutyl propionate sec butyl propionate tert butyl propionate amyl propionate isoamyl propionate tert amyl propionate phenyl propionate methyl 2 ethylhexanoate ethyl 2 ethylhexanoate propyl 2 ethylhexanoate isopropyl 2 ethylhexanoate butyl 2 ethylhexanoate methyl lactate ethyl lactate methyl methoxypropionate methyl ethoxypropionate ethyl methoxypropionate ethyl ethoxypropionate ethylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate diethylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate ethylene glycol monoethyl ether acetate ethylene glycol monopropyl ether acetate ethylene glycol monoisopropyl ether acetate ethylene glycol monobutyl ether acetate ethylene glycol mono sec butyl ether acetate ethylene glycol monoisobutyl ether acetate ethylene glycol mono tert butyl ether acetate propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate propylene glycol monoethyl ether acetate propylene glycol monopropyl ether acetate propylene glycol monoisopropyl ether acetate propylene glycol monobutyl ether acetate propylene glycol mono sec butyl ether acetate propylene glycol monoisobutyl ether acetate propylene glycol mono tert butyl ether acetate butylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate butylene glycol monoethyl ether acetate butylene glycol monopropyl ether acetate butylene glycol monoisopropyl ether acetate butylene glycol monobutyl ether acetate butylene glycol mono sec butyl ether acetate butylene glycol monoisobutyl ether acetate butylene glycol mono tert butyl ether acetate methyl acetoacetate ethyl acetoacetate methyl oxobutanoate ethyl oxobutanoate lactone lactone and the like.

Illustrative of the ether based solvents are tetrahydrofuran tetrahydropyran morpholine ethylene glycol dimethyl ether diethylene glycol dimethyl ether triethylene glycol dimethyl ether dibutyl ether diethyl ether dioxane and the like.

The aliphatic or alicyclic hydrocarbon solvents may include pentane hexane cyclohexane methylcyclohexane dimethylcyclohexane ethylcyclohexane heptane octane decaline solvent naphtha and the like.

The aromatic hydrocarbon based solvents may include benzene toluene ethylbenzene xylene mesitylene diethylbenzene cumene isobutylbenzene cymene tetralin and the like.

The cyano containing hydrocarbon solvents may include 1 cyanopropane 1 cyanobutane 1 cyanohexane cyanocyclohexane cyanobenzene 1 3 dicyanopropane 1 4 dicyanobutane 1 6 dicyanohexane 1 4 dicyanocyclohexane 1 4 dicyanobenzene and the like.

The other organic solvents may include N methyl 2 pyrrolidone dimethyl sulfoxide and dimethyl formamide.

Among the above described organic solvents the alcohol based solvents diol based solvents and ester based solvents are preferred in the present invention because they are economical show sufficient solubility to the solutes and moreover exhibit good coating properties as coating solvents for various substrates such as silicon substrates metal substrates ceramic substrates glass substrates and resin substrates. Of these organic solvents those containing one or more hydroxyl groups in their structures such as alcohol based solvents and diol based solvents are particularly preferred as they have high solubility to the solutes.

The content of the organic solvent in the copper film forming composition according to the present invention is not limited particularly and can be adjusted as desired according to the thickness of a desired copper film and a method to be used to produce the copper film. When producing a copper film for example by a coating method the organic solvent may be used preferably in a range of 0.01 parts by mass to 5 000 parts by mass per 100 parts by mass of the sum of the masses of copper formate in terms of copper formate even in the case of a copper formate hydrate this will apply equally hereinafter and copper acetate in terms of copper acetate even in the case of a copper acetate hydrate this will apply equally hereinafter . If the content of the organic solvent is lower than 0.01 parts by mass such an excessively low content of the organic solvent may lead to an inconvenience such that cracks occur in the resulting film or the coating properties are deteriorated and therefore is not preferred. As the proportion of the organic solvent increases the resulting film becomes thinner. From the aspect of productivity it is hence preferred not to exceed 5 000 parts by mass. Described more specifically when producing a copper film by spin coating it is preferred to use the organic solvent in a range of 20 parts by mass to 1 000 parts by mass per 100 parts by mass of the sum of the masses of copper formate and copper acetate. When producing a copper film by screen printing on the other hand it is preferred to use the organic solvent in a range of 0.01 parts by mass to 20 parts by mass per 100 parts by mass of the sum of the masses of copper formate and copper acetate.

The copper film forming composition according to the present invention contains as essential components copper formate or a hydrate thereof copper acetate or a hydrate thereof the specific diol compound the specific piperidine compound and the organic solvent as described above and may additionally contain one or more optional components to such extents as not to impair the advantageous effects of the pre sent invention. Such optional components may include additives for imparting stability to the composition as a coating formulation such as antigelling agents and stabilizing agents additives for improving the coating properties of the composition as the coating formulation such as defoaming agents thickening agents thixotropic agents and leveling agents film forming aids such as combustion aids and crosslinking aids and so on. When these optional components are used their total content may be preferably 10 mass or lower more preferably 5 mass or lower.

A description will next be made about the process of the present invention for the production of a copper film.

The process of the present invention for the production of a copper film comprises an application step that the above described copper film forming composition according to the present invention is applied onto a substrate and a film forming step that the substrate is then heated at 100 to 400 C. to form a copper film. If needed it is possible to add before the film forming step a drying step that the substrate is held at 50 to 200 C. to evaporate low boiling components such as the organic solvent and after the film forming step an annealing step that the substrate is held at 200 to 500 C. to provide the resulting copper film with improved electrical conductivity.

Coating methods usable in the above described application step may include spin coating dip coating spray coating mist coating flow coating curtain coating roll coating knife coating bar coating slit coating screen printing gravure printing offset printing inkjet coating brush coating and the like.

Further the application step to desired one of the remaining steps may be repeated a plurality of times to obtain a needed thickness. For example the entire steps of from the application step to the film forming step may be repeated a plurality of times or the application step and drying step may be repeated a plurality of times.

Atmospheres for the above described drying step film forming step and annealing step may each be either a reducing gas or an inert gas in general. Under the presence of a reducing gas a copper film of superior electrical conductivity can be obtained. As the reducing gas hydrogen can be mentioned and as the inert gas helium nitrogen or argon can be mentioned. The inert gas may also be used as a diluent gas for the reducing gas. In each step energy other than heat such as plasma light laser light light from discharge lamps such as xenon lamps mercury lamps mercury xenon lamps xenon flash lamps argon flash lamps or deuterium lamps or one of various radiations may be applied or irradiated.

The present invention will hereinafter be described in further detail based on production examples and examples. It should however be borne in mind that the present invention is by no means limited by the following examples.

The compounds described in Table 1 were formulated to give the corresponding values mol kg in parentheses whereby copper film forming composition Nos. 1 to 12 were obtained as examples of the present invention. Described specifically as shown in Table 1 copper formate tetrahydrate and copper acetate monohydrate were varied in amount used while the diol compound and piperidine compound were varied in kind and amount used so that twelve kinds of copper film forming compositions were prepared as Nos. 1 to 12. It is to be noted that the balance is ethanol in its entirety. Further each concentration described in Table 1 means the amount of the corresponding component used per kg of the composition so prepared this will apply equally hereinafter .

The compounds described in Table 2 were formulated to give the corresponding values mol kg in parentheses whereby comparative compositions 1 to 11 were obtained. Described specifically as shown in Table 2 the comparative compositions 1 to 9 are copper film forming compositions each of which did not contain at least one of copper formate tetrahydrate copper acetate monohydrate a diol compound and a piperidine compound. Further the comparative compositions 10 and 11 are copper film forming compositions prepared by using copper compounds other than the copper acetate compound respectively. It is to be noted that the balance is ethanol in its entirety.

Separately using the copper film forming composition Nos. 1 to 12 obtained in Example 1 the production of thin copper films by a coating method was conducted. Described specifically each composition described above was first cast on a glass substrate for a liquid crystal display screen Eagle XG trade name product of Corning Incorporated and was applied at 500 rpm for 5 seconds and then at 2 000 rpm for 20 seconds by spin coating. Subsequently the glass substrate was dried at 140 C. for 30 seconds on a hot plate in the atmosphere and the glass substrate after the drying was then heated at the corresponding predetermined temperature which is shown in Table 3 for 20 minutes under an argon atmosphere in an infrared heating furnace RTP 6 manufactured by ULVAC RIKO Inc. to conduct primary heating. During the primary heating the flow condition for argon was set at 300 mL min and the ramp up rate was set at 250 C. 30 sec. The thus obtained individual thin copper films were provided for an evaluation to be described subsequently herein. These films are shown as Evaluation Example 1 1 to Evaluation Example 1 12 in Table 3.

Separately using the comparative compositions 1 to 11 obtained in Comparative Production Example 1 the production of thin copper films by a coating method was conducted. Described specifically each composition described above was first cast on a similar glass substrate Eagle XG product of Corning incorporated as those used in Example 2 and was coated at 500 rpm for 5 seconds and then at 2 000 rpm for 20 seconds by spin coating. Subsequently the glass substrate was dried at 140 C. for 60 seconds on a hot plate in the atmosphere and was then heated at the corresponding predetermined temperature for 20 minutes under an argon atmosphere in an infrared heating furnace RTP 6 manufactured by ULVAC RIKO Inc. to conduct primary heating. During the primary heating the flow condition for argon was set at 300 mL min and the ramp up rate was set at 250 C. 30 sec. The thus obtained individual thin copper films were provided for an evaluation to be described subsequently herein. These films are shown as Comparative Examples 1 to 11 in Table 3.

Concerning the respective thin copper films formed on the glass substrates as obtained in Example 2 and Comparative Production Example 2 an evaluation was performed for film conditions surface resistivity and film thickness by the below described methods. The conditions of each film were evaluated by a visual observation. For the measurement of the surface resistivity of each film LORESTA GP trade name manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Analytech Co. Ltd. was used. The thickness of each film was measured by observing its cross section with FE SEM field emission scanning electron microscope . The results are shown all together in Table 3.

From the results of Table 3 it was able to confirm that the thin copper films of Evaluation Examples 1 1 to 1 12 were substantially lower in surface resistivity and was improved in electrical characteristics compared with the thin copper films of Comparative Examples 1 to 9. From this it has been confirmed that the copper film forming compositions of the examples of the present invention can obtain copper films of good electrical characteristics. On the other hand the copper films of Comparative Examples 10 and 11 in which the copper compounds other any copper acetate compounds were used respectively were more deteriorated in electrical characteristics than the copper film of Comparative Example 1. It was also able to confirm that the copper film forming compositions of the examples of the present invention were excellent in coating properties because all of the thin copper films of Evaluation Examples 1 1 to 1 12 were smooth and were glossy over their entire surfaces.

The compounds described in Table 4 were formulated to give the corresponding values mol kg in parentheses whereby copper film forming composition Nos. 13 to 15 were obtained as examples of the present invention. It is to be noted that the balance is ethanol in its entirety.

The compounds described in Table 5 were formulated to give the corresponding values mol kg in parentheses whereby copper film forming composition Nos. 16 and 17 were obtained as examples of the present invention. It is to be noted that the balance is butanol in its entirety. These copper film forming composition Nos. 16 and 17 are different in solvent from the copper film forming composition Nos. 13 and 14 of Example 3.

The compounds described in Table 6 were formulated to give the corresponding values mol kg in parentheses whereby copper film forming composition Nos. 18 and 19 were obtained as examples of the present invention. It is to be noted that the balance is ethylene glycol monobutyl ether in its entirety. These copper film forming composition Nos. 18 and 19 are different in solvent from the copper film forming composition Nos. 13 and 14 of Example 3 and the copper film forming composition Nos. 16 and 17 of Example 4.

The compounds described in Table 7 were formulated to give the corresponding values mol kg in parentheses whereby copper film forming composition Nos. 20 and 21 were obtained as examples of the present invention. It is to be noted that the balance is diethylene glycol monoethyl ether in its entirety. These copper film forming composition Nos. 20 and 21 are different in solvent from the copper film forming composition Nos. 13 14 and 16 to 19.

The compounds described in Table 8 were formulated to give the corresponding values mol kg in parentheses whereby comparative compositions 12 to 14 in which no copper acetate compound was used were obtained. It is to be noted that the balance is ethanol in its entirety.

The compounds described in Table 9 were formulated to give the corresponding values mol kg in parentheses whereby comparative compositions 15 and 16 in which no copper acetate compound was used were obtained. It is to be noted that the balance is butanol in its entirety. These comparative compositions 15 and 16 are different in solvent from the comparative composition 12 and 13 obtained in Comparative Production Example 3.

The compounds described in Table 10 were formulated to give the corresponding values mol kg in parentheses whereby comparative compositions 17 and 18 in which no copper acetate compound was used were obtained. It is to be noted that the balance is ethylene glycol monobutyl ether in its entirety. These comparative compositions 17 and 18 are different in solvent from the comparative compositions 12 13 15 and 16 obtained in Comparative Production Examples 3 and 4.

The compounds described in Table 11 were formulated to give the corresponding values mol kg in parentheses whereby comparative compositions 19 and 20 in which no copper acetate compound was used were obtained. It is to be noted that the balance is diethylene glycol monoethyl ether in its entirety. These comparative compositions 19 and 20 are different in solvent from the comparative composition 12 13 and 15 to 18 obtained in Comparative Production Examples 3 to 5.

Concerning the copper film forming composition Nos. 13 to 21 of the examples of the present invention as obtained in Examples 3 to 6 and the comparative compositions 12 to 20 obtained in Comparative Production Examples 3 to 6 the following evaluation was performed by visual observation. First the conditions of each composition were confirmed. Using a viscometer RE 85L manufactured by Toki Sangyo Co. Ltd. the viscosity of the composition was measured. Further the stability of the composition was confirmed by visually checking its conditions after having been left over in a stoppered vial for 24 hours in the atmosphere. The results are shown all together in Table 12.

As indicated by the results of Table 12 it was able to confirm that when the copper film forming composition of each example of the present invention and its corresponding comparative composition were the same in copper concentration and solvent the copper film forming composition of the example of the present invention had a lower viscosity and higher stability compared with the comparative composition. As the viscosity of a composition considerably affects the shippability of the composition it has been found that the copper film forming composition according to the present invention is excellent in shippability and high in stability. Further it was impossible to dissolve copper formate tetrahydrate which is a solid matter completely in Comparative Example 14 while it was possible to completely dissolve the solid matter in Evaluation Example 2 3 in which the concentration of copper in the composition was the same as that of copper in the composition of Comparative Example 14. According to the present invention the provision of a composition of high copper concentration is hence feasible.

Separately using the copper film forming composition Nos. 13 to 21 obtained in Examples 3 to 6 the production of thin copper films by a coating method was conducted. Described specifically each composition was first cast on a similar glass substrate Eagle XG product of Corning Incorporated as those used in Example 2 and was coated at 500 rpm for 5 seconds and then at 2 000 rpm for 20 seconds by spin coating. Subsequently the glass substrate was dried at 140 C. for 30 seconds on a hot plate in the atmosphere and was then heated at a temperature of 250 C. for 20 minutes under an argon atmosphere in an infrared heating furnace RTP 6 manufactured by ULVAC RIKO Inc. to conduct primary heating. During the primary heating the flow condition for argon was set at 300 mL min and the ramp up rate was set at 250 C. 30 sec.

Separately using the comparative compositions 12 to 20 obtained in Comparative Production Examples 3 to 6 the production of thin copper films by a coating method was conducted. Described specifically each composition was first cast on a similar glass substrate Eagle XG product of Corning Incorporated as those used in Example 2 and was coated at 500 rpm for 5 seconds and then at 2 000 rpm for 20 seconds by spin coating. Subsequently the glass substrate was dried at 140 C. for 60 seconds on a hot plate in the atmosphere and the glass substrate after the drying was then heated at 250 C. for 20 minutes under an argon atmosphere in an infrared heating furnace RTP 6 manufactured by ULVAC RIKO Inc. to conduct primary heating. During the primary heating the flow condition for argon was set at 300 mL min and the ramp up rate was set at 250 C. 30 sec.

Concerning the thin copper films obtained in Example 7 and Comparative Production Example 7 an evaluation was performed for film conditions surface resistivity and film thickness by the below described methods. The conditions of each film were evaluated by a visual observation. For the measurement of the surface resistivity of each film LORESTA GP manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Analytech Co. Ltd. was used. The thickness of each film was measured by observing its cross section with FE SEM. The results are shown in Table 13.

From the results of Table 13 it was able to confirm through a comparison between the copper films formed by applying each comparative composition and its corresponding composition of the example according to the present invention both of which were the same in copper concentration and solvent that the copper film obtained by using the copper film forming composition of the example of the present invention was substantially lower in surface resistivity and was improved in electrical characteristics compared with the copper film obtained by using the comparative composition. It was also confirmed that from the copper film forming compositions of the examples of the present invention in which the various organic solvents were used similar results were obtained irrespective of the kinds of the organic solvents. Even when copper films were formed with the copper film forming compositions of the examples of the present invention in which the copper concentrations were as high as 2.0 mol kg or higher smooth films were obtained. It has therefore been found that the copper film forming composition according to the present invention can retain good coating properties even when its copper concentration is high.

