---

title: System and method for non-disruptive mitigation of messaging fraud
abstract: A system and method are disclosed herein for providing mitigation of fraud in a hosted messaging service while having minimal impact on authorized messaging users. The method includes a system for detecting potential fraud based on multiple and configurable fraud indicators as well as historical data, which can be customized for individual users or groups. The system can terminate in-process messages that are potentially fraudulent and reset the network access credentials for the affected user accounts or devices that have been potentially compromised. The system uses historical data to block further messages from the compromised user accounts or devices to specific destination addresses where the presumed fraudulent messaging activity was directed. In a further aspect, the system and method can automatically reset the network access credentials for authorized users with minimal downtime.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09419988&OS=09419988&RS=09419988
owner: VONAGE BUSINESS INC.
number: 09419988
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140829
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 169 385 filed Jan. 31 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 837 606 filed Jun. 20 2013.

The present invention relates generally to mitigating fraudulent activity in an Internet based or telephony based messaging system and more particularly to methods and systems for providing messaging fraud mitigation in a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS or other Internet based messaging system in a manner that is effective yet minimally disruptive to an authorized user.

A Private Branch Exchange PBX is a telephone exchange that makes connections among the internal telephones of an organization such as a private business or telephone network. The PBX allows these internal telephones to connect to the public switched telephone network PSTN via trunk lines and or the Internet. A hosted PBX system delivers PBX functionality as a service available over the PSTN and or the Internet. A telephone company typically provides hosted PBXs using equipment located on the premises of the telephone company s exchange. In a hosted PBX system the customer organization does not need to buy or install PBX equipment and the telephone company can use the same switching equipment to service multiple PBX hosting accounts. Furthermore Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP gateways can be combined with traditional PBX functionality enabling businesses and organizations to use their managed Internet Intranet to help reduce long distance expenses and to enjoy the benefits of a single network for voice and data which gives greater cost savings mobility and increased redundancy.

Like other Internet based computer systems VoIP PBXs have become a target for Internet based fraud. A hacker one who compromises a VoIP PBX often by obtaining the Session Initiation Protocol SIP credentials of a VoIP telephony device of an authorized user can place fraudulent phone calls through the VoIP PBX to any destination. Such fraudulent phone calls can sometimes incur large phone bills when placed to international locations. Such VoIP fraud may result in financial liabilities owed by an authorized user or the VoIP PBX service provider to the call carriers who terminate these calls. A successful hacker can use illicitly obtained credentials to place numerous calls in a matter of minutes that can run up thousands of dollars in fraudulent VoIP calls through a VoIP PBX.

Like VoIP Short Message Service SMS or Multimedia Messaging Service MMS each referred to hereinafter also as messaging services are services that may be offered by phone Internet and mobile communications systems. Messaging services utilize standardized communications protocols to allow fixed line mobile phone or other computing devices to exchange short text messages. SMS as used on modern handsets originated from radiotelegraphy in radio memo pagers using standardized phone protocols. These were defined in 1985 as part of the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM series of standards as a means of sending messages of up to 160 characters to and from GSM mobile handsets. Though most SMS messages are mobile device to mobile device text messages support for the service has expanded to include other mobile technologies such as American Nation Standards Institute ANSI Code Divisional Multiple Access CDMA networks and Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS networks as well as satellite and landline networks.

SMS and MMS messaging gateways and services can be combined with traditional PBX functionality enabling businesses and organizations to use their managed Internet Intranet to help reduce expenses and to enjoy the benefits of a single network for voice and data. This allows VoIP service providers to offer their subscribers messaging services such as SMS and MMS. A VoIP service provider can offer these messaging services utilizing a softphone application on a computing device mobile device or Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone system. In many instances the VoIP service provider will offer this feature in a mobile device application format.

Messaging services such as SMS have become a huge commercial industry earning communications service providers billions of dollars in revenues each year. However these messaging services have inherent security vulnerabilities and shortcomings and are often the targets of fraudulent attacks. Given the huge potential financial liability to a service provider who may be subject to such attacks there exists a need to eliminate or mitigate messaging services fraud.

There are several types of messaging fraud. These include Spamming cases Flooding cases Faking cases and Spoofing cases among others. Spamming occurs when the subscriber receives an unsolicited SMS or MMS. The act of spamming is similar to receiving spam emails in an email account. It is not defined by the content of the message but the mere fact that the user did not request or solicit the message. The content of the spam message is incidental to the act. However it is important to note the message could have been sent from a valid originator and therefore may be correctly billed to the sender.

Another instance of messaging fraud occurs when a large number of messages are sent to one or more destinations effectively flooding the networks. This is referred to as SMS flooding. SMS flooding occurs when the volume of messages originating from a user account becomes so large it effectively overwhelms the network. This can lead to problems such as service outages for other users. This is usually identified when the number of messages originating from an account far exceeds the usual number of messages sent within a specific time period.

While the types of fraud described above may be annoying what is of particular concern to VoIP and telephony service providers is fraud that results in service cost to the service providers or to their subscribers including SMS MMS Faking message faking and SMS MMS Spoofing message spoofing . Message faking occurs when the Skinny Client Control Protocol SCCP a lightweight protocol for session signaling between Internet protocol devices and wireless call managers or the Media Access Protocol MAP address associated with a subscriber s account is manipulated. The SCCP or MAP address may be entered incorrectly or taken from a valid originator using methods such as GT Scanning described below. For example when a user sends an SMS or MMS message a message packet is generated by the user s device and initially forwarded over the user s network to a Mobile Switching Center MSC employed by the originating user s network. The MSC analyzes the message packet and uses the SCCP or MAP address of the user account that originated the message for authentication. The MSC also uses the message packet to determine the current switching network with which the destination user account is registered. The MSC then pings the switching network of the destination account for protocol routing information for the message. A Home Location Register HLR at the destination address responds to the originating MSC with the routing information for the receiving user device. The originating MSC then sends the actual text of the message to the MSC for the receiving network. The MSC for the receiving network confirms receipt. Fraud can occur when although the originating MSC functions as normal the SCCPs or MAP addresses are hacked and manipulated such that the source address is changed during the transmission of the actual message to the receiving user. This causes an accounting error because the financial cost associated with sending the message is charged to the account associated with the hacked source address. Therefore the charges are placed against the account associated with this changed source address. This could result in huge charges against a subscriber or service provider if the hacker chooses to fake an authorized user s legitimate account and flood the network with messages.

Message faking can also occur if the user has a computing device application that can send messages on behalf of the user. Some hosted systems have an application programming interface API for sending messages that requires user authentication in order to use the API. If a hacker obtains these user credentials for either the application or the API then a hacker can send fraudulent messages and also possibly create an incident of SMS flooding as described above. In this case the hacker does not need to manipulate the SCCP or the MAP address of the message and so this kind of hacking may be simpler and more commonplace thereby potentially creating an even larger threat to a telephony service provider.

Similar to message faking the messages can also be spoofed. Message spoofing occurs when a hacker or other entity manipulates the SCCP or MAP address of a message to make it appear to be a legitimate message from a device that is roaming on another network. The hacker manipulates the routing information in the message such that it appears to be originating from a foreign Visitor Location Register VLR . The VLR is used to maintain a record of foreign mobile devices that are roaming on another carrier s network. When message spoofing is occurring the hackers are using a user s account identifiers to essentially clone a user s identity within a telephony service provider s network. This cloned identity allows the hacker to appear to the user s Home Public Land Mobile Network HPLMN as the legitimate user. The HPLMN assumes the cloned user identity is the legitimate user roaming on another service provider s network and engaging in legitimate messaging activity using that network. Given that all the account identifying information provided by the VLR is correct the HPLMN will authenticate and authorize the message transfer. From the HPLMN point of view the message is originating from a legitimate user that is roaming on a third party network with their device. However it is in fact not a real subscriber but a clone that has been generated by a hacker. The hacker effectively uses these techniques to trick the HPLMN into assuming that an authorized user is generating the message and the message is then forwarded to a receiver. The message is then billed to the spoofed or cloned user account.

A hacker can also utilize GT Scanning which uses special equipment to conduct a bulk scan of message service centers to identify non secure vulnerable message service centers and mobile devices in order to commit any of the types of fraud described above.

Multiple solutions have been devised to detect potential VoIP and messaging fraud through a VoIP PBX or VoIP service providers. These fraud mitigation solutions are necessary because any interruption of calling or messaging services for a user can represent an intolerable business disruption with serious financial consequences as many businesses and users rely on VoIP PBX and messaging services for all their communications. Therefore telephone and messaging services are mission critical for many businesses. Thus the need exists for a system and method that effectively mitigates financial liability of both VoIP and messaging fraud while being minimally disruptive to the communications of authorized users.

The present invention meets one or more of the above referenced needs as described herein in greater detail.

The present invention relates generally to mitigating fraudulent activity in an Internet based or telephony based messaging system and more particularly to methods and systems for providing messaging fraud mitigation in a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS or other Internet based messaging system in a manner that is effective yet minimally disruptive to an authorized user.

In a first aspect the present embodiment provides a method for fraud mitigation executable on a computing device. The method accesses configurable data to define a plurality of fraud indicators. The method then dynamically monitors a user device or account to identify fraudulent messaging or calling activity based on the one or more of the plurality of defined fraud indicators. Upon a determination that fraudulent messaging or calling activity is occurring or has recently occurred on an affected user device or account a fraud mitigation action is applied. Fraud mitigation actions may be chosen from at least one of call or message termination call or message blocking or reissuing network access credentials for the affected user device or account.

In a further aspect a fraud mitigation system executable on a computing device is disclosed. The fraud mitigation system accesses a connected storage component comprising configurable data for defining a plurality of fraud indicators. The computing device executes a fraud monitoring service for dynamically monitoring a user account or device to identify fraudulent messaging or calling activity based on the defined fraud indicators. Upon a determination that fraudulent messaging or calling activity is occurring or has recently occurred on a user device or account at least one fraud mitigation service is employed. The fraud mitigation services include a message or call termination system a credential reset service and a destination blocking service. The message or call termination service terminates an identified fraudulent call or message occurring on the affected user device or account. The credential reset service reissues new network access credentials to the affected user device or account. The destination blocking service blocks future calls from the affected user device or account to a location identified in the fraudulent messaging or calling activity.

In a further aspect the present embodiment provides a system and method for VoIP fraud mitigation for a VoIP PBX system. The system and method also provides a method for messaging fraud mitigation for Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Messaging Service MMS messages. The fraud detection service relies on configuration data from a connected storage component which defines fraud indicators that can be set based on accumulated number of calls the type of calls and or the cost of the calls. Similarly the fraud indicators can be set based on an accumulated number of messages the type of messages and or the cost of the messages. The types of calls may include long distance calls international calls and or other toll calls. The fraud indicators can be defined and set based on specific time periods number of calls or messages placed during a specific time period and number of calls or messages placed from a specific user or group of users.

In a further aspect the present embodiment provides a system and method for VoIP fraud mitigation for a hosted VoIP PBX system wherein the Call Termination Service can force the termination of live calls in a variety of ways including through an API made available by the VoIP PBX with call control capabilities and through interaction and manipulation of an Edge Server or a network device through which SIP and VoIP communications pass to or from the VoIP PBX.

Similar to the VoIP fraud mitigation described above the present embodiment provides a Message Termination Service that can force the termination of active outgoing messages through an API made available by the fraud monitoring service to a mobile switching center message service center or to a user device and or account.

The system comprises a messaging system network for transmitting and receiving communication messages for a user account. The messaging system network comprises at least one of a provisioning server provided to issue authentication credentials to the user account. The provisioning server is coupled to a message log database that logs records of message communications. The message log database is coupled to a mobile switching center that has been provided to route message communications for a user account. The mobile switching center is coupled to a Message Service Center that is provided to connect the messaging system network with a communications network. The messaging system network is communicatively coupled to a fraud monitoring unit.

Further in the embodiment the system provides a fraud monitoring service to detect instances of fraudulent messaging activity occurring within the messaging system network. The fraud monitoring unit comprises a fraud indicator configuration database for maintaining a record of one or more pre defined fraud indicators. The fraud indicator configuration database is coupled to a historical database that is provided to maintain a record of one or more historical fraud indicators. The fraud monitoring unit dynamically analyzes message communications with reference to the pre defined fraud indicators and the historical fraud indicators as these message communications are routed through the Message Service Center and the mobile switching center.

The fraud monitoring unit is coupled to a fraud mitigation unit. The fraud mitigation unit is provided to mitigate instances of fraudulent messaging activity occurring within the messaging system network. Upon a determination that fraudulent messaging activity is occurring the fraud mitigation unit activates at least one of the following a message termination unit that is provided to terminate in process fraudulent communications messages a destination blocking unit that is provided to record and block future message communications to destinations that have been associated with fraudulent activities and a credential reset unit that is provided to trigger the provisioning server to reset the credentials of a user account associated with the fraudulent messaging activity.

In a further aspect the present embodiment provides a system and method for VoIP fraud mitigation for a hosted VoIP PBX system wherein a call or message blocking service is provided. Once a fraud alert is received from the fraud detection service the identified targeted calling locations or messaging destinations originating from the identified devices and accounts where fraud is occurring or recently occurred can be blocked. The location or destination information can be granular such as a specific phone number or more general such as a calling area code country code or continent. The call or message blocking service having received a fraud alert from the fraud detection service can implement the call or message blocking in a variety of ways including communicating with the VoIP PBX or mobile switching center through an API to register the call or message blocking rules for the device or a group of devices for the blocked calling locations or messaging destinations.

The above features as well as additional features and aspects of the present invention are disclosed herein and will become apparent from the following description of preferred embodiments of the present invention.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of aspects and concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Before the present methods and systems are disclosed and described in greater detail hereinafter it is to be understood that the methods and systems are not limited to specific methods specific components or particular implementations. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular aspects and embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

As used in the specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Similarly optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event or circumstance may or may not occur and the description includes instances where the event or circumstance occurs and instances where it does not.

Throughout the description and claims of this specification the word comprise and variations of the word such as comprising and comprises mean including but not limited to and is not intended to exclude for example other components integers or steps. Exemplary means an example of and is not intended to convey an indication of preferred or ideal embodiment. Such as is not used in a restrictive sense but for explanatory purposes.

Disclosed herein are components that can be used to perform the disclosed methods and systems. It is understood that when combinations subsets interactions groups etc. of these components are disclosed that although specific reference to each various individual and collective combinations and permutations cannot be explicitly disclosed each is specifically contemplated and incorporated herein for all methods and systems. This applies to all aspects of this specification including but not limited to steps in disclosed methods. Thus if there are a variety of additional steps that can be performed it is understood that each of the additional steps can be performed with any specific embodiment or combination of embodiments of the disclosed methods.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the methods and systems may take the form of an entirely new hardware embodiment an entirely new software embodiment or an embodiment combining new software and hardware aspects. Furthermore the methods and systems may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program instructions e.g. computer software embodied in the storage medium. More particularly the present methods and systems may take the form of web implemented computer software. Any suitable computer readable storage medium may be utilized including hard disks non volatile flash memory CD ROMs optical storage devices and or magnetic storage devices. An exemplary computer system is detailed in the discussion of below.

Embodiments of the methods and systems are described below with reference to block and flowchart diagrams of methods systems apparatuses and computer program products. It will be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flowchart diagrams respectively can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be loaded onto a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create a means for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including computer readable instructions for implementing the function specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions specified in the flowchart block or blocks.

Accordingly blocks contained in the block diagrams and flowchart diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flowchart diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flowchart diagrams can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Turning now to a block diagram illustrating a system for providing fraud mitigation for a VoIP System is provided. The Fraud Mitigation System works with a VoIP System used by one or more organizations for intra company telecommunications and for telecommunications to and from outside parties via the Internet or the PSTN not shown . The Fraud Mitigation System comprises a Fraud Monitoring Service a Call Termination Service a Phone Credential Change Service and a Location Blocking Service . The Fraud Monitoring Service detects potential fraud based on multiple fraud indicators as defined in the Configuration Data . The Configuration Data can be customized for individual users or groups which in turn can trigger the other parts of the system to mitigate fraud. The Call Termination Service terminates in process calls that are identified as potentially fraudulent. The Phone Credential Change Service resets the security authorization credentials for the authorized user subscriber accounts and or SIP device s hereinafter user accounts and or devices which credentials have been potentially compromised by the fraud perpetrator. The Location Blocking Service blocks future calls from fraud perpetrators such as Hackers based on previously identified fraudulent calling data.

The embodiments described herein provide protection against fraud damage and are unique beyond prior methods in that beyond other aspects in process calls that are potentially fraudulent are terminated immediately combined with device credential reset and call location blocking to stop further fraudulent calls. This Fraud Mitigation System and an attendant method described in greater detail below allow for minimal disruption of the calls of authorized users and is unique beyond prior methods in that it combines configurable thresholds for detection of fraud with targeted mitigation techniques including the automated reset of credentials for authorized user accounts and or devices and the automated blocking of calls from non authorized devices and to specific non authorized locations.

The Fraud Monitoring Service relies on Configuration Data stored in a First Connected Storage Component wherein the Configuration Data is used to define fraud threshold triggers or fraud indicators. The Fraud Mitigation System uses this Configuration Data to dynamically monitor calls that are being placed within the network in real time by one or a group of user accounts and or devices for activities that are indicative of fraud.

Fraud indicators selected for the Configuration Data can be based on any number of factors. Some of these factors include but are not limited to destination of the outgoing calls calling patterns time of day calls are placed and the like. Fraud indicators related to real time calling pattern data are used to analyze one or more characteristics of the calls being placed by one or a group of user accounts and or devices . Real time calling pattern data can also include the accumulated number of calls placed the accumulated number of calls placed within a specific time period the types of calls placed such as international or toll free calls or the estimated or exact cost of calls being placed and other real time calling pattern data. Fraud indicators can rely on thresholds that are defined for specific time periods such as the number of calls made by one or a group of user accounts and or devices in a minute or in an hour of a given day or the accumulated cost of calls within a specific time period such as per minute per hour per day etc. Each of these characteristics may be used individually or cumulatively in the real time analysis of outgoing calls. The Configuration Data can be provided individually for each user account and or device or universally across a service provider s network.

The Fraud Monitoring Service can be further configured to intervene based upon Historical Data from a Second Connected Storage Component . In an exemplary embodiment once the Fraud Mitigation System determines that a particular call is fraudulent meta data and other characteristics of the call can be analyzed and stored in the Historical Data . As calls are being placed in real time the Fraud Monitoring Server can first query the Historical Data to determine if the call matches any previously determined fraudulent patterns. For example the Fraud Monitoring Service can be further configured to record certain phone numbers or calling destinations that were previously determined to be fraudulent. Future calls to these phone numbers or calling destinations can be blocked. The Fraud Monitoring Service can also block certain types of calls during certain hours of the day if there is a history of fraudulent calls being placed during certain hours of the day. For example if historically most fraudulent calling activity occurs between 1 00 am and 6 00 am on a given day of the week the Fraud Monitoring Service can be configured to block all toll calls for a given phone number or subscriber during those hours.

The Fraud Monitoring Service can be configured to record or memorialize any previous calling activity that was determined to be fraudulent in the Historical Data . For example in an exemplary embodiment the Historical Data can include location based calling pattern data including calls to specific phone numbers area codes states or countries around the world. In the exemplary embodiment if a country has a known history or pattern of originating or receiving fraudulent calling activity this information can be stored in the Historical Data so that calls to that country may be placed under stricter scrutiny. Therefore any number of factors can be recorded in the Historical Data and any number of these recorded factors can be used by the Fraud Monitoring Service to analyze calling patterns initiated by one or a group of user accounts and or devices to interrupt fraudulent calling activities.

The Fraud Monitoring Service can dynamically adjust fraud indicators based on user settings and or Historical Data . For example a calling threshold can be set stricter during particular periods of time such as off peak hours. This also allows the Fraud Monitoring Service to dynamically adjust fraud indicators based on Historical Data including previously observed patterns and statistical data. Furthermore different fraud indicators can be defined for different users or groups. The different fraud indicators can be based on the previous Historical Data of the group or the previous Historical Data of the service provider.

The Fraud Monitoring Service can combine one or more fraud indicators available in the Fraud Indicator Configuration Data and the Historical Data in its analysis of outgoing calls. For example the Fraud Monitoring Service may consider multiple calls within a short time period to certain high fraud risk countries after business hours to be indicative of fraudulent calling activity. Any number of factors could be combined in any number of ways to trigger the Fraud Monitoring Service to detect potential fraud associated with a user account and or device . The Fraud Monitoring Service can also be configured such that if multiple thresholds are exceeded for one or more fraud indicators then the outgoing call is interrupted.

The Fraud Monitoring Service dynamically monitors the call activity of one or a group of user accounts and or devices on a VoIP PBX network and then compares the activity to the configured fraud indicators. The Fraud Monitoring Service can monitor activity on a VoIP PBX in a variety of ways including but not limited to monitoring network traffic through an Edge Server through which user accounts and or devices and VoIP communications pass to or from the VoIP PBX monitoring activity through direct communications with the VoIP PBX such as through an API of the VoIP PBX reading Call Logs produced by the VoIP PBX for completed calls such as those stored in a database or similar storage device with an interface allowing such Call Logs to be accessed and read. When the activity of one or a group of user accounts and or devices on a VoIP PBX network meets or exceeds the fraud thresholds or fraud indicators defined for the network or subscriber then the Fraud Monitoring Service triggers a fraud alert to the other system components and such that mitigation actions are taken. The fraud alert identifies to the other system components and an individual user a group of users and or one or more SIP devices on the VoIP PBX network for which the presumed fraud was detected as well as the calling locations where the presumed fraudulent calls were placed. This activity may be recorded as Historical Data to prevent similar fraudulent activity from occurring in future calls. Historical Data can store fraudulent calling patterns such as a high volume of fraudulent calls to a specific location within a specific time period. This can trigger the Fraud Monitoring Service to take immediate action for the affected user account and or device . Similarly repeated occurrences recorded in the Historical Data across multiple user accounts and or devices can result in the Fraud Monitoring Service recognizing a repeated problem to that location which in turn can result in using the Location Blocking Service to block all calls to that location across all user accounts and or devices . In an alternative embodiment the Location Blocking Service can also limit its location blocking via more fine grained methods such as blocking all calls during specific time periods for example on weekends and or between the hours of 1 am and 6 am blocking all calls to a specific location during defined time periods e.g. after normal work hours nights weekends and or blocking certain types of calls such as long distance calls during specific time periods that have historically had a strong propensity to indicate fraudulent activity.

In a further embodiment the Fraud Mitigation System includes a Call Termination Service . Having received a fraud alert message from the Fraud Monitoring Service the Call Termination Service relies on information in the fraud alert message to identify the devices and calling locations where fraud is presumed to be occurring or has recently occurred. The Call Termination Service can immediately terminate all in process calls originating from user accounts and or devices where the presumed fraud was detected and going to destinations where presumed fraudulent calls or potentially fraudulent calls are directed. In an alternative embodiment the Call Termination Service can only terminate those calls that are presumed to be fraudulent while allowing other calls originating from the affected user accounts and or devices to remain active. The Call Termination Service can base its call termination decisions according to Historical Data from the Fraud Indicator Configuration Data and analysis by the Fraud Monitoring Service . Therefore if an affected user account and or device has an authorized active outgoing call that is in process and a Hacker is able to infiltrate the same user account and or device to engage in fraudulent activity during the same time the Fraud Monitoring Service is capable of distinguishing the authorized calling activity over the potentially fraudulent calling activity that is originating from the user account and or device . The Fraud Monitoring Service can engage the Call Termination Service to terminate the fraudulent activity originating from the affected user account and or device while allowing the authorized call originating from the user account and or device to continue to remain active. The Fraud Monitoring Service can analyze activity originating from a user account and or device in connection with the Historical Data for example previous calls to a regularly dialed phone number to determine whether an outgoing communication is authorized or fraudulent. The authorized call would remain active while other calls deemed to be fraudulent would be terminated.

The Call Termination Service can force the end of calls in a variety of ways. For example the Call Termination Service can force the end of calls through an API made available by the VoIP PBX with call control capabilities. The Call Termination Service can also force the end of calls through interaction and manipulation of an Edge Server . If necessary the Call Termination Service can terminate the call at the affected user account and or device by sending an API for a call termination or hang up request to the affected user account and or device .

In a further embodiment there is a Phone Credential Change Service . The Fraud Monitoring Service identifies the user accounts and or devices from which a presumed Hacker has obtained credentials to either place fraudulent calls through the user accounts and or devices or through separate devices using those credentials which triggers a fraud alert message in the Fraud Mitigation System . Once the Phone Credential Change Service receives a fraud alert message from the Fraud Monitoring Service the Phone Credential Change Service immediately instructs a Provisioning Server to issue new credentials to the VoIP PBX for the compromised user accounts and or devices . The Provisioning Server delivers these new credentials to the authorized user accounts and or devices through a secure channel . The Provisioning Server can also issue other configuration changes to the targeted user account and or device in order to protect against further fraud. In an embodiment the user account and or device receives a special API call or other signal from the Provisioning Server with the new credentials over the secure channel . In an exemplary embodiment the user account and or device is capable of hot swapping the old login credentials for the new login credentials. This means authorized users of the user accounts and or devices can continue to use their devices with potentially no down time. However in an alternative embodiment some user accounts and or devices may require a reboot. In these instances for the affected user accounts and or devices the user can continue to communicate on an existing call however once the existing call is completed the user will be required to reboot or reinitiate the user account and or device before another call can be placed from the device. In other embodiments a signal sent from the Provisioning Server can automatically reboot or reinitiate a user account and or device either once the signal is received at the user account and or device or once an authorized user of the account and or device completes an existing call. In still an alternative embodiment for a user account and or device requiring a reboot any active users of the user account and or device may receive a tone or message during the active call indicating that the call will be terminated within a specific amount of time and at the expiration of that time the Phone Credential Change Service would automatically reboot the device with the new network access credentials.

In a further embodiment the Provisioning Server issues login and other network access credentials to the user accounts and or devices . In an embodiment the Provisioning Server can dynamically assign revoke and or change access credentials of the user accounts and or devices connected to the VoIP PBX network . In one configuration a user account and or device can contain instructions to periodically ping the Provisioning Server to verify that the user account and or device credentials are still current and active. Once a user account and or device is deemed to have been compromised then the Provisioning Server can dynamically and automatically reassign network access credentials of the user account and or device without user or operator intervention. These new or reassigned network access credentials can result in the termination of all active calls for the user account and or device . However in an alternative embodiment the Call Termination Service can instruct the Provisioning Server to delay reassignment of the network access credentials until after an authorized call from the user account and or device is terminated. However the Call Termination Service can still identify a potentially fraudulent call originating from the user account and or device and terminate it while it is in process without affecting the authorized call.

In a further embodiment the Provisioning Server can issue network access credentials to the user accounts and or devices via a Push Pull and Push Pull protocol. Push Pull and Push Pull protocols are methods of automated device communications within the VoIP system . These methods can be specific to the user account and or device s operating system or the network system. A push occurs when a network component pushes i.e. sends credentials instructions or other data out to a user account and or device . A pull occurs when a user account and or device requests credentials instructions or other data from a network component or user account and or device . Consequently a Push Pull operation occurs when both of the actions occur synchronously. In an embodiment the Provisioning Server generates network access credentials e.g. login identifier and password for a user account and or device . These access credentials allow the user account and or device to communicate with the VoIP system that is provided by the user account and or device s service provider. These access credentials may be different from the user account and or device credentials used to access other services via their VoIP messaging or telephony service provider. The Push Pull and Push Pull protocols are discussed in greater detail in the discussion of below.

In a further embodiment the Phone Credential Change Service communicates through the Provisioning Server with the user accounts and or devices over a secure connection that can be separate from the connection between the user accounts and or devices and Edge Server . The Provisioning Server manages the connections between the user accounts and or devices with the VoIP System by assigning and revoking configuration credentials that the user accounts and or devices need in order to connect to the VoIP System . The Provisioning Server can assign the user accounts and or devices pertinent configuration information such as the user name password domain name system DNS location Internet protocol IP addresses etc. The new credentials can include a new username and password for the user accounts and or devices . Furthermore the Provisioning Server can configure the user accounts and or devices with additional configuration settings including an alternative connection point such as a new IP address or DNS location. By issuing new credentials and other secure configuration instructions automatically the Phone Credential Change Service in communication with the Provisioning Server allows an authorized user accessing the authorized device to continue making phone calls while a Hacker who has obtained the prior credentials and used them to place fraudulent phone calls through the VoIP PBX is denied further access. Preferably the action to deny the Hacker continued access occurs immediately upon detection of the fraudulent activity. The new credentials and related data can be securely delivered to the user accounts and or devices in a variety of ways including but not limited to staging them on a secure server to which only authorized user accounts and or devices can connect and which the devices poll frequently for updates sending them directly over the network to the user accounts and or devices where the device IP addresses are known and accessible to the Phone Credential Change Service and where an interface for the delivery of such information exists on the device. The Provisioning Server provides a file store for user accounts and or devices configuration files since there are different formats for different types of phones according to the device manufacturer requirements. Each account and or device has a DNS address for the Provisioning Server and these user accounts and or devices pick up files at a configured interval via a known network connection protocol such as FTP or HTTP. The Provisioning Server may also contain code to periodically ping the user accounts and or devices via the secure connection so that their login credentials can be automatically changed frequently and immediately. In an alternative embodiment the Provisioning Server can periodically send a signal to user accounts and or devices that can trigger a credential change that requires a reboot typically after business hours . These frequent and periodic credential changes can make it very difficult to hack the VoIP System .

In still a further embodiment there is a Location Blocking Service . Having received a fraud alert message from the Fraud Monitoring Service which identifies the user accounts and or devices and calling locations where fraud is presumed to have recently occurred and where fraud may still be occurring the Location Blocking Service can immediately take action to block further calls from the potentially compromised user accounts and or devices to the targeted locations. Locations might be granular such as a specific phone number or more general such as a calling area code country code or even a continent. The Location Blocking Service could be used to block all calling to a location across all user accounts and or devices . For example if a number of user accounts and or devices are compromised and the Fraud Monitoring Service detects multiple user accounts and or devices all calling the same target location then the action taken can be to completely block all calls to that location regardless of the user accounts and or devices being used. The Location Blocking Service can implement call blocking in a variety of ways such as by communicating with the VoIP PBX through an API to register the call blocking rules for the user accounts and or devices or a group of user accounts and or devices and for the blocked calling locations. The Location Blocking Service can store the blocked calling location and call blocking rules within the Historical Data for future reference by the Fraud Mitigation System .

Turning now to a flowchart diagram of a method for implementing VoIP fraud mitigation is provided. The method is described in association with the Fraud Mitigation System described above. Beginning at step and proceeding to step an outgoing call is initiated to a phone number from a user account and or device via SIP using valid SIP credentials authorized for use on the VoIP PBX . The method then proceeds to step .

The Fraud Monitoring Service monitors the user accounts and or devices for activities that match previously identified fraudulent activity exceed fraud threshold conditions or match fraud indicators at step . More specifically the Fraud Monitoring Service can monitor the Edge Server for call activity at step . The Fraud Monitoring Service can also monitor the VoIP PBX for calling data at step which can indicate fraudulent activity. The Call Logs and Historical Data are further monitored at step to determine patterns of calling activity which can indicate various types of fraud. The monitored data gathered in steps is collected and compared at step to Fraud Indicator Configurable Data and or to Historical Data gathered in steps respectively. The system is able to evaluate fraud conditions by determining if the data collected in steps match the Historical Data and or exceeds the conditions established in the Fraud Indicator Configuration Data . These Fraud Indicator Configuration Data can comprise call volume call length call type and or calling expenditures per user account and or device etc. Historical data including typical calling patterns location of originating call calling locations frequency of calls frequency of calls at various times during the day frequency of calls to various locations frequency of call during various days of the week average length of calls frequency of calls to numbers or locations not within the user s contact database and other fraudulent calling pattern data can also be monitored. This data can be configured for individual user accounts and or devices organizations groups of accounts and or devices and or network wide for a given service provider. Therefore different user accounts and or devices within the same group or organization may have different Fraud Indicator Configurable Data or conditions. Thus each user account and or device may have Fraud Indicator Configuration Data that may be configured individually or as part of a group. Alternatively the service provider may provide universal Fraud Indicator Configuration Data and Historical Data to prevent fraudulent activity. After this comparison of Fraud Indicator Configuration Data versus Historical Data is made the method proceeds to step .

At step the Fraud Monitoring Service determines if the monitored data gathered in steps has exceeded the Fraud Indicator Configuration Data and or matches some Historical Data at step . If the thresholds have been exceeded the service records this information in the Historical Data . If the thresholds have been exceeded or if calling activity matches the Historical Data then the Fraud Mitigation System activates at least one of steps or . If the thresholds have not been exceeded the system proceeds to step where the call is allowed to proceed normally since no fraudulent activity has been detected.

The Fraud Monitoring Service can send out a fraud alert to the Call Termination Service the Phone Credential Change Service or the Location Blocking Service . The fraud alert contains information for identifying the user account and or device that is suspected of fraudulent activity. At step the fraud alert is passed to the Call Termination Service . The Call Termination Service acts immediately to terminate all in process calls initiated by the affected user accounts and or devices . The Call Termination Service can issue instructions to the Edge Server the VoIP PBX or to the user accounts and or devices to terminate in process calls from the affected user accounts and or devices .

At step the fraud alert is passed to the Phone Credential Change Service . The Phone Credential Change Service contacts the Provisioning Server and orders it to reset the credentials of the affected user accounts and or devices that are registered with the VoIP PBX . The Phone Credential Change Service instructs the Provisioning Server to immediately issue new credential requirements to the VoIP PBX for the potentially compromised user accounts and or devices . The credential changes are handled through a secure channel or connection between the user accounts and or devices the Provisioning Server the VoIP PBX and the Phone Credential Change Service . Other configuration data associated with the affected user accounts and or devices can also be changed. The new credentials can include a new SIP username and password. The other configuration data can include other network identifiers such as a new IP address or DNS location for example.

At step the fraud alert is sent to the Location Blocking Service . The Location Blocking Service receives the fraud alert and analyzes the calling data to determine the calling locations of the fraudulent activity. This calling location information can be granular such as a specific phone number. This calling location information can also be more general such as a calling area code country code or a continent. The Location Blocking Service immediately takes action to block further calls from user accounts and or devices connected to the VoIP PBX system. The Location Blocking Service can record this information in Historical Data such that the VoIP PBX can block all future fraudulent activity associated with a particular calling location. The method ends at step .

Note in an alternate embodiment of the invention the activities occurring in steps may occur sequentially simultaneously or in any combination thereof including not taking one or more such steps. This allows the components of the Fraud Mitigation System to work together to immediately stop fraudulent activity while allowing authorized owners of the user accounts and or devices to continue to use their devices with minimal interruption.

Turning now to a method of acting upon phone credentials based upon a fraud mitigation alert is provided. The method is described in association with the Fraud Mitigation System described above. Beginning at step and proceeding to step the Phone Credential Change Service receives a fraud alert message from the Fraud Monitoring Service . The fraud alert message contains information for identifying the affected user accounts and or devices . The Phone Credential Change Service then acts on this information to stop the fraudulent activity.

At step the Phone Credential Change Service parses the fraud alert message to identify the affected user accounts and or devices . The identified user accounts and or devices can include an individual device or a group of devices.

At step the Phone Credential Change Service provides a secure connection with the affected user accounts and or devices so that their individual credentials can be reset. The Phone Credential Change Service also establishes a secure connection with the VoIP PBX so that it can be updated with the new credentials of the affected user accounts and or devices .

At step the Phone Credential Change Service then resets the credentials and automatically assigns new user names and passwords for the affected user accounts and or devices . In addition the Phone Credential Change Service can also assign a new IP address and or DNS locations for the affected user accounts and or devices . The Phone Credential Change Service further updates the VoIP PBX with this new credential information for the affected user accounts and or devices using the secure connection.

At step the Phone Credential Change Service provides Heart Beat Monitoring to the user accounts and or devices by periodically verifying that the user accounts and or devices are securely connected to the network and have not been tampered with. Therefore the Phone Credential Change Service monitors the user accounts and or devices for other suspicious activity including but not limited to an IP address change or a DNS location change for example. This monitoring can take place continuously by allowing the Provisioning Server to periodically ping the user accounts and or devices to ensure they are securely connected to the network. In a further embodiment the Provisioning Server periodically updates the credentials of the user accounts and or devices by assigning new credentials to these devices. Furthermore individual user accounts and or devices or a group of user accounts and or devices that have been consistently targeted by Hackers may receive special attention from the Provisioning Server such that their credentials are more frequently updated either permanently or at least for some period of time via a feedback loop at step . The method ends at step .

Turning now to a block diagram illustrating a system for providing messaging fraud mitigation for a Short Message Service SMS or Multimedia Messaging Service MMS messaging system is provided. Like VoIP hosted messaging services are subject to fraud such as Message Spoofing and Message Faking discussed above in the Background section wherein a hacker gains access to an authorized user s access credentials and sends messages using the user s account information. In an embodiment a hacker gains access to the authorized user s credentials when Messaging System Networks expose portions of their Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS messaging APIs when establishing connections with user accounts and or devices over wireless networks using transmission towers wireless fidelity Wi Fi networks and the like. Therefore messaging is subject to similar fraud concerns as VoIP calling notably in a hosted Internet based system because Internet based systems tend to be prime targets for hackers due to the ability to access these systems from remote undetectable locations. For example if a hacker obtains the credentials used to authenticate to the Internet based system the hacker thereby gains the access to impersonate an authenticated user or device to send SMS messages. A hacker might deliver SMS messages using the hijacked account. The service provider would pay the costs of SMS termination for the messages and a hacker with malicious intent could thereby run up large costs in a small amount of time if not discovered and stopped immediately. A hacker might obtain the credentials to the Internet based system through a variety of means including but not limited to social hacking obtain from an unsuspecting legitimate user phishing device hacking breaking into a legitimate user device or man in the middle attacks on unsecured networks.

The Messaging Fraud Mitigation System may work within a VoIP System used by one or more organizations for intra company telecommunications and for telecommunications to and from outside parties via the Internet or the PSTN . The Messaging Fraud Mitigation System can include a Fraud Monitoring Service a Message Termination Service a Credential Reset Service and a Destination Blocking Service . The Fraud Monitoring Service detects potential fraud based on multiple fraud indicators and Fraud Indicator Configuration Data that can be customized for individual users or groups and which in turn can trigger the other parts of the Messaging Fraud Mitigation System to mitigate fraud. The Message Termination Service terminates in process messages that are identified as potentially fraudulent. The Credential Reset Service resets the security authorization credentials for the authorized user subscriber accounts and or device s hereinafter user accounts and or devices whose credentials have been potentially compromised by the fraud perpetrator. The Destination Blocking Service blocks future messages from fraud perpetrators such as from a Hacker Device based on previously identified fraudulent messaging data.

The embodiments described herein provide protection against fraudulent messaging by allowing in process messages that are potentially fraudulent to be terminated immediately. The embodiment further provides for resetting the messaging access credentials of an authorized device that is the source of the fraudulent messages and blocking the destination addresses that are designated to receive the fraudulent messages. In an embodiment the user accounts and or devices are dual authenticated by both an account identifier and account password that allows access to the user accounts and or devices within the VoIP or messaging servicer provider s network. The user accounts and or devices are further authenticated to the Messaging System Network using a messaging access identifier and password to allow messages to be sent to and from the user accounts and or devices over the Messaging System Network . This Messaging Fraud Mitigation System and an attendant method described in greater detail below minimizes disruption by combining configurable thresholds for detection of fraud with targeted mitigation techniques. These targeted mitigation techniques can include an automated reset of credentials for authorized user accounts and or devices so that messages from non authorized hacker devices are blocked as well as the blocking of specific non authorized messaging addresses or locations e.g. message destination phone numbers targeted by hackers .

The Fraud Monitoring Service relies on Fraud Indicator Configuration Data stored in a Connected Storage Component wherein the Fraud Indicator Configuration Data is used to define fraud threshold triggers or fraud indicators. The Messaging Fraud Mitigation System uses this Fraud Indicator Configuration Data to dynamically monitor messages that are being generated in real time by one or a group of user accounts and or devices for activities that are indicative of fraud.

Fraud indicators selected for the Fraud Indicator Configuration Data can be based on any number of factors. Some of these factors include but are not limited to destination of the outgoing messages volume of messages within a specific time frame accumulated cost of messages within a specific time frame frequency of the outgoing messages messaging patterns temporal characteristics of a message diversity of recipient locations known common destinations for fraudulent activity and the like. Fraud indicators related to real time messaging pattern data are used to analyze one or more characteristics of the messages being placed by one or a group of user accounts and or devices . Real time message pattern data can also include the accumulated number of messages placed the accumulated number of messages placed within a specific time period the types of messages placed such as SMS or MMS or the estimated or accumulated cost of messages being placed and other real time messaging pattern data. Fraud indicators can further rely on thresholds that are defined for specific time periods such as the number of messages made by one or a group of user accounts and or devices in a minute or in an hour of a given day or the accumulated cost of calls within a specific time period such as per minute per hour per day etc. Each of these characteristics may be used individually or cumulatively in the real time analysis of outgoing messages. The Fraud Indicator Configuration Data can be provided individually for each user account and or device or universally across a service provider s network.

The Fraud Monitoring Service can be further configured to intervene based upon Historical Data from a Connected Storage Component . In an exemplary embodiment once the Messaging Fraud Mitigation System determines that a particular message is fraudulent meta data and other characteristics of the message can be analyzed and stored in the Historical Data . In a further embodiment the Historical Data can store information related to a User Device contact list or messaging history such that addresses and contacts that are not found within the User Device s contact list or messaging history can receive greater scrutiny. For example if outbound messages are being initiated to addresses not found in the User Device s contact list or history during a certain time period e.g. after business hours the messages may be blocked from being transmitted. As messages are being sent in real time the Fraud Monitoring Service can first query the Historical Data to determine if the message matches any previously determined fraudulent patterns. For example the Fraud Monitoring Service can be further configured to record certain phone numbers addresses or messaging destinations associated with messages that were previously determined to be fraudulent. Future messaging attempts to these phone numbers addresses or calling destinations can be blocked. The Fraud Monitoring Service can also block certain types of messages during certain hours of the day if there is a history of fraudulent messages being sent during certain hours of the day. For example if historically most fraudulent messaging activity occurs between 1 00 am and 6 00 am on a given day of the week the Fraud Monitoring Service can be configured to block all messages for a given phone number address messaging destination or subscriber during those hours.

The Fraud Monitoring Service can be configured to record or memorialize any previous messaging activity that was determined to be fraudulent in the Historical Data . For example in an exemplary embodiment the Historical Data can include location based messaging pattern data including messages to specific phone numbers area codes states countries or email addresses around the world. In the exemplary embodiment if a country has a known history or pattern of originating or receiving fraudulent messaging activity this information can be stored in the Historical Data so that messages to that country may be placed under stricter scrutiny. Therefore any number of factors can be recorded in the Historical Data and any number of these recorded factors can be used by the Fraud Monitoring Service to analyze messaging patterns initiated by one or a group of user accounts and or devices to interrupt fraudulent calling activities.

The Fraud Monitoring Service can dynamically adjust fraud indicators based on user settings and or Historical Data . For example a message threshold can be varied based on time of day such as off peak hours. This also allows the Fraud Monitoring Service to dynamically adjust fraud indicators based on Historical Data including previously observed patterns and statistical data. Furthermore different fraud indicators can be defined for different users or groups. The different fraud indicators can be based on the previous Historical Data of the group or the previous Historical Data of the service provider.

The Fraud Monitoring Service can combine one or more fraud indicators available in the Fraud Indicator Configuration Data and the Historical Data in its analysis of outgoing messages. For example the Fraud Monitoring Service may consider multiple messages within a short time period to certain high fraud risk countries after business hours to be indicative of fraudulent messaging activity. Any number of factors could be combined in any number of ways to trigger the Fraud Monitoring Service to detect potential fraud associated with a user account and or device . The Fraud Monitoring Service can also be configured such that if multiple thresholds are exceeded for one or more fraud indicators then the outgoing message is not sent.

The Fraud Monitoring Service dynamically monitors the messaging activity of one or a group of user accounts and or devices within a Messaging System Network and then compares the messaging activity to the configured fraud indicators. The Messaging System Network is a system of network components the facilitate the transmission of SMS MMS Instant Messages and other Internet or telephony based messages over the Internet PSTN Cellular Public Land Mobile Network PLMN wireless and other electronic networks. The Messaging System Network s purpose is to store forward convert and deliver messages via the various networks. The Messaging System Network can comprise one or more Message Service Centers that act as a gateway for communicating with the Internet PLMN PSTN and other electronic networks. A Signal Transfer Point STP is provided for routing communications traffic within the Messaging System Network among its various components. For example one or more Mobile Switching Centers are provided for routing voice calls SMS MMS as well as other services e.g. conference calls fax and circuit switched data . The Mobile Switching Centers establish and release the end to end messaging handle mobility and hand over requirements during a message and are responsible both for charging accounts and real time account monitoring. Furthermore the Mobile Switching Centers are in communication with the STP a Provisioning Server and a Connected Storage Device that is comprised of Message Logs . The Message Logs contain records of messages sent or received over the Messaging System Network . The Messaging System Network is further comprised of one or more Visitor Location Registers VLR which comprise a database of subscribers who have roamed into the jurisdiction of the Mobile Switching Centers that the VLR serves. The VLR is in communication with the other Messaging System Network components via the STP . A Home Location Register HLR is also provided. The HLR is a central database that contains data and specifications of each subscriber i.e. user accounts and or devices that is authorized to use the Messaging System Network . The HLR is in communication with the other Messaging System Network components via the STP and it works in concert with the Provisioning Server and Message Service Center to provide user account and or device authentication.

The Messaging Fraud Mitigation System can communicate with any one of the Messaging System Network components via programmatic network interfaces using application communication protocols such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP Open Database Connectivity ODBC Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP etc. In an embodiment the telephony service provider s network comprises server side instructions e.g. Java module executing within the Fraud Monitoring Service . These instructions allow the Fraud Monitoring Service to frequently poll the Message Logs where SMS MMS or other messaging activity is logged. Therefore the Fraud Monitoring Service via the Messaging System Network is able to monitor the messaging activity occurring on a user account and or device . In a further embodiment the instructions allow the Fraud Monitoring Service to poll the Message Service Center for activity or logs.

In an embodiment the Fraud Monitoring Service monitors the operations of the Mobile Switching Center or accesses the Message Logs stored within the Connected Storage Device that is in communication with the Mobile Switching Center . If certain messaging activities exceed predefined thresholds a fraud alert can be triggered. In a further embodiment the Fraud Monitoring Service can access the Home Location Register HLR or the Visitor Location Register VLR to monitor for fraudulent activity. The HLR is the main database of permanent subscriber information for the mobile network. The HLR contains pertinent information related to the user accounts and or devices including address account status and preferences. If information related to messaging activity occurring within the Messaging System Network is not consistent with the credential information stored within the HLR a fraud alert can be triggered. In a further embodiment if messaging activity occurring on one or a group of user accounts and or devices within the Messaging System Network meets or exceeds the fraud indication thresholds or if the activity triggers fraud indicators defined for the network or subscriber then the Fraud Monitoring Service triggers a fraud alert. This fraud alert is forwarded to the other Messaging Fraud Mitigation System components and so that mitigation actions can be taken.

Occurrences of fraudulent messaging activity such as the number of messages to a particular phone number or area code or country code sent within a certain period of time are recorded as Historical Data to prevent similar fraudulent messaging activity from occurring in the future. For example in an embodiment occurrences of fraudulent messaging activity can include messages to a particular phone number or address messages that are sent at specific intervals to specific destinations etc. Once stored in Historical Data future attempts to send messages of the same type could trigger a fraud alert. In a further embodiment these repeated occurrences that are recorded in the Historical Data can be made applicable to multiple user accounts and or devices that access the Messaging System Network thereby enabling the Fraud Monitoring Service to prevent this activity from occurring on other user accounts and or devices . Furthermore this enables the Destination Blocking Service to block all future messages to destinations associated with fraudulent messaging activity.

The Destination Blocking Service can provide message blocking across all user accounts and or devices via communications sent to the Messaging System Network . In an embodiment the Destination Blocking Service can send a message to the Mobile Switching Center via the Fraud Monitoring Service indicating that all messages to a specific phone number or area code or country code should be blocked. The Destination Blocking Service can be software executing on a server a specialized server or a distributed network of specialized servers. In an embodiment the Destination Blocking Service via the Messaging System Network can also limit its destination blocking via more fine grained methods such as blocking all messages during specific time periods for example on weekends and or between the hours of 1 am and 6 am blocking all messages to a specific location or address during defined time periods e.g. after normal work hours nights weekends and or blocking certain types of messages such as those being forwarded to long distance numbers or outside of the VoIP provider s network during specific time periods that have historically had a strong propensity to indicate fraudulent activity.

In a further embodiment the Messaging Fraud Mitigation System includes a Message Termination Service . Having received a fraud alert message from the Fraud Monitoring Service the Message Termination Service relies on information in the fraud alert message to identify the devices and calling locations where fraud is presumed to be occurring or has recently occurred. The Message Termination Service via the Messaging System Network can immediately terminate all in process messages originating from user accounts and or devices where the presumed fraud was detected.

The Fraud Monitoring Service analyzes both Historical Data and information from the Fraud Indicator Configuration Data to make a determination as to whether a current outgoing message is fraudulent. If the message is deemed fraudulent the Message Termination Service can terminate the message. The Message Termination Service can be software executing on a server a specialized server or a distributed network of specialized servers. Therefore if an affected user account and or device has an authorized active outgoing message that is in process and a Hacker Device is able to infiltrate the same user account and or device s credentials to engage in fraudulent activity during the same time the Fraud Monitoring Service is capable of distinguishing the authorized messaging activity over the potentially fraudulent messaging activity that is originating from the user account and or device . The Fraud Monitoring Service can engage the Message Termination Service to terminate the fraudulent activity originating from the affected user account and or device while allowing the authorized message originating from the user account and or device to proceed. The Fraud Monitoring Service can analyze activity originating from a user account and or device to determine whether it is authorized based upon previous messages to a regularly messaged phone number found in the Message Logs . Messages to a regularly messaged phone number from user accounts and or devices can be deemed to be an authorized outgoing communication. Therefore in an embodiment the Message Termination Service will only terminate those messages that are determined to be fraudulent while allowing other authorized messages originating from the affected user accounts and or devices to remain active. In an embodiment the Message Termination Service may forward an alert to the Mobile Switching Center via the Fraud Monitoring Service to terminate specific outgoing messages identifying the user accounts and or devices and the phone number to which one or messages are being sent. In a further embodiment the Message Termination Service may forward an alert to the Mobile Switching Center via the Fraud Monitoring Service to terminate all outgoing messages. However the pending outgoing messages may be stored in the Message Logs and Historical Data so that they can be analyzed and compared to determine if they meet fraudulent messaging criteria e.g. the destination address was previously stored in historical data as a fraudulent address . If the message is not determined to be fraudulent it can be stored in the Message Logs and resent by the Messaging System Network after the credentials have been reset. All other outgoing messages determined to be fraudulent can be deleted. Therefore the authorized message would proceed while other messages deemed to be fraudulent would be terminated.

The Message Termination Service can force the end of a message broadcast in a variety of ways. For example the Message Termination Service can force the termination of messages via an API made available by the Mobile Switching Center or the VoIP PBX with message control capabilities. If necessary the Message Termination Service can terminate the message broadcast at the affected user account and or device by sending an API for a message termination or hang up or stop request to the affected user account and or device .

A Credential Reset Service is provided to prevent future fraudulent messaging activity. The Credential Reset Service can be software executing on a server a specialized server or a distributed network of specialized servers. The Fraud Monitoring Service via the Messaging System Network identifies the user accounts and or devices from which a presumed hacker or Hacker Device has obtained a user s device or the user device s credentials to send fraudulent messages via the user accounts and or devices . Once the Credential Reset Service receives a fraud alert message from the Fraud Monitoring Service the Credential Reset Service sends a credential reset alert to the Provisioning Server . The Provisioning Server receives the credential reset alert and generates new access credentials for the compromised user accounts and or devices . The Provisioning Server delivers these new access credentials to the HLR via the Mobile Switching Center and STP . Once the HLR receives these new access credentials it can push the credentials out to the user devices as described below in the discussion of the push pull or push pull methods used in provisioning.

In an embodiment the Messaging System Network and the Messaging Fraud Mitigation System are capable of sending instructions and APIs to a user account and or device via a Push Pull or Push Pull method. This Push Pull or Push Pull method can be facilitated by messaging gateways that are both integral to a telephony service provider s network and for messaging gateways that are provided via third party services. The user accounts and or devices can communicate with the Message Service Center the Mobile Switching Center the Provisioning Server and the HLR via a Push Pull or Push Pull method. Push Pull and Push Pull are methods of automated device communications within the Messaging System Network . These methods can be specific to the user account and or device s operating system or the network system. A push occurs when a network component pushes i.e. sends credentials instructions or other data out to a user account and or device . A pull occurs when a user account and or device requests credentials instructions or other data from a network component or user account and or device . Consequently a Push Pull operation occurs when both of the actions occur synchronously. In an embodiment the Provisioning Server generates network access credentials e.g. messaging access identifier and password for a user account and or device . These access credentials allow the user account and or device to communicate with the Messaging System Network that is provided by the user account and or device s service provider. These access credentials may be different from the user account and or device credentials used to access other services via their VoIP messaging or telephony service provider. The Push Pull or Push Pull methods described above are also applicable to VoIP calling via user phones as described in the discussions of above. Once the messaging access credentials are generated they are passed through the Mobile Switching Center and the STP and stored within the HLR . The HLR sends these messaging access credentials via the STP to the Message Service Center . The Message Service Center can then push these messaging access credentials out to a user account and or device . Similarly in an embodiment a user account and or device can request messaging access credentials by sending a pull request to the Message Service Center the pull request is passed through the STP to HLR . The HLR is capable of verifying some preliminary authentication information about the user account and or device using such information as the originating IP address the serial number or packet header of the user account and or device . Once this preliminary authentication information is verified the HLR via the STP and Mobile Switching Center can query the Provisioning Server for new access credentials. Once the Provisioning Server provides these credentials the HLR via the STP and Mobile Service Center can return or push these credentials back out to the user account and or device . In an alternative embodiment messaging access credentials may be stored within the HLR and accessed by the user account and or device via Mobile Service Center and the STP . In a further embodiment a push pull operation can occur when the user account and or device pushes information out the Messaging System Network . This information can include information regarding the current status of the user account and or device . In response components within the Messaging System Network may determine that certain information should be updated on the user account and or device . For example the HLR may determine that a message token which is a representation of a user account and or device s messaging access credentials and explained in detail below for user account and or device has expired. Therefore the HLR may push a new access token to the user account and or device via the STP and the Message Service Center .

The Provisioning Server can also assign other pertinent configuration information such as the messaging access identifier and password or messaging Token. The Provisioning Server can also assign to the user accounts and or devices new address credentials for communicating with the Messaging System Network including a new DNS location or IP address for accessing the Messaging System Network . Furthermore the Provisioning Server can configure the user accounts and or devices with additional configuration settings including an alternative connection point such as directing the user account and or device to a new messaging access IP address or DNS location port for a different Message Service Center .

In an embodiment the HLR in concert with the Message Service Center via the STP can create a secure channel with the user accounts and or devices by authenticating the user accounts and or devices using serial numbers subscriber identity modules SIM international mobile subscriber identity IMSI personal identification numbers PIN an account identifier and account password combination and the like. The Provisioning Server can also issue other configuration changes to the targeted user account and or device in order to protect against further fraud. In an embodiment the user account and or device receives a special API call or other signal from the Provisioning Server via the Mobile Switching Center STP and Message Service Center to provide these new access credentials over the secure channel . In an exemplary embodiment the user account and or device is capable of hot swapping the old login credentials for the new login credentials. Therefore once the user account and or device receives the new access credentials via the secure channel the user account and or device can then automatically send an API request to the Messaging System Network requesting that the user account and or device be re authenticated with the Messaging System Network . This Messaging System Network via the Message Service Center the STP and the HLR would then re authenticate the user account and or device . This means authorized users of the user accounts and or devices can continue to use their devices with potentially no or minimal down time.

In an embodiment some user accounts and or devices may not be able to receive new credentials via a push or pull method as described above. This situation occurs when the user account and or device attempts to access the Messaging System Network but it is notified that it no longer has valid access credentials. The user account and or device can then request new credentials via a secure channel as described above. Once the secure channel is established the new access credentials can be provided to the device user account and or device . However the operating systems powering some user accounts and or devices may require a reboot for these new access credentials to take effect. In these instances for the affected user accounts and or devices any pending outgoing message will continue to be sent however once the pending outgoing message is delivered the user will be required to reboot or re authenticate the user account and or device before another message can be sent from the device. In other embodiments a signal sent from the Provisioning Server can automatically reboot or reinitiate a user account and or device either once the signal is received at the user account and or device or once an authorized user of the user account and or device completes an outgoing message.

In a further embodiment the Provisioning Server issues login and other network access credentials to the user accounts and or devices . In an embodiment the Provisioning Server can dynamically assign revoke and or change access credentials of the user accounts and or devices connected to the Messaging System Network . In one configuration a user account and or device can contain instructions to periodically ping the Provisioning Server to verify that the user account and or device credentials are still current and active. Once a user account and or device is deemed to have been compromised then the Provisioning Server can dynamically and automatically reassign network access credentials of the user account and or device without user or operator intervention. These new or reassigned network access credentials can result in the termination of all active outgoing messages for the user account and or device . However in an alternative embodiment the Message Termination Service can instruct the Provisioning Server to delay reassignment of the network access credentials until after an authorized message from the user account and or device is terminated. However the Message Termination Service can still identify a potentially fraudulent message originating from the user account and or device and abort it while it is in process without affecting the authorized message.

In an embodiment to communicate with the Messaging System Network using the messaging APIs a sender s credentials are initially authenticated with a valid messaging ID and messaging Password. Upon successful authentication the Messaging System Network via the Provisioning Server returns to the sender a message token that can be used for subsequent messaging API requests. The Messaging System Network can subsequently invalidate the message token for various reasons including for example session timeout i.e. the token expires after a predetermined time period in which case the messaging API would notify the sender via their user account and or device that the message token presented is no longer valid. The sender would then need to re authenticate their user account and or device to obtain a new valid message token. The message token described above is also applicable to the VoIP calling via user phones as described in the discussions of above.

As described above the Provisioning Server can facilitate the authentication of the user accounts and or devices via the use of message tokens. A message token is a representation of a user account and or device s messaging access identification and password. Message tokens i.e. access tokens are well known in the art and tend to include additional security features. For example message tokens may be designed to be used once to expire within a predetermined time period or to control user s access to various messaging features e.g. ability to send multimedia messages while authenticated on the system. For more details on access tokens see Microsoft White Paper published Mar. 28 2003 entitled How Access Tokens Work by the Microsoft TechNet Library. The messaging access identification and passwords or message token are required for user account and or device authentication on the Messaging System Network . The Provisioning Server manages the messaging access credentials for the user accounts and or devices within the Messaging System Network by assigning and revoking messaging access identification and passwords and or message tokens. The Provisioning Server authenticates the user account and or device to allow it to send and receive messages on the Messaging System Network using either a combination of messaging access identification and password or a message token.

In an embodiment the Provisioning Server issues a message token to a user account and or device each time a new user account and or device is authenticated to the Messaging System Network . The message tokens are delivered to the user accounts and or devices via the secure network process described above. The Provisioning Server is configured to automatically issue suspend or revoke the messaging tokens based on changes to a user account and or device VoIP service subscription account status time day access restrictions or a fraud alert. If the user account and or device is suspended from the Messaging System Network the message token is automatically revoked by the Provisioning Server . Therefore in an embodiment the Credential Reset Service can reset access credentials for an authorized user account and or device and then revoke its current message token to ensure that the new access credentials must be used for any further access.

The Provisioning Server can issue new credentials and related data securely to the user accounts and or devices in a variety of ways including but not limited to staging them on a secure server to which only authorized user accounts and or devices can connect and which the accounts and or devices can poll frequently for updates sending them directly over the network to the user accounts and or devices where the device IP addresses are known and accessible to the Credential Reset Service and where an interface for the delivery of such information exists on the device via an HTTP based API or via a Push Pull or Push Pull method as described above. In an embodiment the Provisioning Server automatically creates access credentials including messaging IDs messaging passwords and message tokens so that they can be provisioned to an authorized user account and or device of an authorized application such as an application on a smartphone or desktop computer from the Messaging System Network . The credentials may be provisioned via a pull request from the device or application upon an indication from the Messaging System Network that the credentials of the user account and or device are no longer valid using an HTTP based or non HTTP based provisioning API or they might be pushed to a device or application using a push messaging mechanism such as those provided by mobile device operating system manufactures including for example Apple Inc. and Google Inc. for pushing notifications to iOS and Android applications. In some embodiments the messaging ID and messaging password need not be readily available or visible to the user. Rather they may be passed entirely in the background both when they are initially pushed pulled to the user account and or device and later when they are presented by the user account and or device back to the Messaging System Network to validate authorization to send messages. In an embodiment the access credentials provisioned to an authorized user account and or device may be obtained by an application running on a client device such as a smartphone or desktop computer via an API call to the Messaging System Network and then stored within the application on the client device without being exposed or visible to the application user.

In an embodiment the Provisioning Server can further provide a file store for the user accounts and or devices configuration files since there are different formats for different types of phones devices and accounts according to the manufacturer requirements. Each account and or device has a DNS or IP address for its configuration file which is addressable via the Provisioning Server and these user accounts and or devices reference these configuration files via the Mobile Switching Center STP and Message Service Center at a configurable intervals via a known network connection protocol such as file transfer protocol FTP or HTTP. The Provisioning Server may also contain instruction code to periodically ping the user accounts and or devices via the Mobile Switching Center STP and Message Service Center and the secure connection so that their messaging credentials or tokens can be automatically changed frequently and immediately. In an alternative embodiment the Provisioning Server can periodically send a signal via the Mobile Switching Center STP and Message Service Center to user accounts and or devices that can trigger a credential change that requires a reboot e.g. typically after business hours . These frequent and periodic credential changes can make it very difficult to hack the Messaging System Network .

As mentioned above a Destination Blocking Service is also provided. Once the Fraud Monitoring Service generates a fraud alert the Destination Blocking Service can be activated. The fraud alert identifies the user accounts and or devices as well as messaging addresses or destinations where fraud is presumed to have recently occurred and where fraud may be still be occurring. The Destination Blocking Service can immediately take action to block further messages from the potentially compromised user accounts and or devices to the targeted addresses or destinations. Destinations might be granular such as a specific phone number or specific email address or more general such as area code country code a continent or even a universal resource locater address URL . The Destination Blocking Service could be used to block all messages to a location across all user accounts and or devices . For example if a number of user accounts and or devices are compromised and the Fraud Monitoring Service detects multiple user accounts and or devices all messaging similar target destinations e.g. country codes area codes or domain names then the Destination Blocking Service can completely block all messages to that address or destination e.g. country codes area codes or domain name regardless of the user accounts and or devices being used. The Destination Blocking Service can implement message blocking in a variety of ways such as by communicating with the Mobile Switching Center via the Fraud Monitoring Service through an API to register the message blocking rules e.g. the blocked addresses and destinations for the user accounts and or devices or a group of user accounts and or devices . The Destination Blocking Service can store the blocked addresses and destinations within the Historical Data for future reference by Fraud Monitoring Service .

In an embodiment if the Fraud Monitoring Service detects potential fraudulent messaging activity occurring within one or more user accounts and or devices the Fraud Monitoring Service performs the following actions 

Since the messaging token has been invalidated and the messaging credentials i.e. messaging ID and password have been changed a hacker or hacker device will be unable to send further fraudulent messages using the hijacked credentials. However a legitimate user account and or device that has been authenticated is automatically provisioned with a new message ID and password. The legitimate user account and or device could then continue sending messages.

Turning now to a flowchart diagram of a method for mitigating messaging fraud is provided. The method is described in association with the Messaging Fraud Mitigation System described above. Beginning at step and proceeding to step a user account and or device is authenticated for sending communications across the Messaging System Network using valid messaging ID message Password or message Token credentials authorized for use on the Messaging System Network or VoIP PBX . If the user account and or device fails to provide valid access credentials the authentication process starts over at step . However if the user account and or device provides valid access credentials then the user account and or device is granted access to the Messaging System Network and the method proceeds on to step .

At step the user account and or device sends a message to a phone number or address via the Messaging System Network using SMS MMS or other messaging protocols. The method then proceeds to step .

At Step the message being routed through the Messaging System Network is monitored for fraud conditions articulated in the system description discussion of above. The Fraud Monitoring Service analyzes all messages flowing through the Mobile Switching Center Message Logs and the Message Service Center for activities that match previously defined fraudulent activity exceed fraud threshold conditions or match fraud indicators at step . Previously defined fraudulent activity can include historical patterns that were determined to be fraud such as sending bursts of messages at specific intervals or forwarding messages to specific address and locations that were previously determined to be fraudulent. Fraud threshold conditions can include for example the quantity of messages sent or the costs of messages sent within a predetermined period of time. Fraud indicators can include for example messages sent after normal business hours or on the weekends. This analysis is dynamic and ongoing as messages flow through the Messaging System Network . If any of the messages flowing through the Messaging System Network match the previously defined fraudulent activity exceed fraud threshold conditions or match fraud indicators then a Fraud Alert is triggered at step .

At step a determination is made as to whether the message sent by the user account and or device through the Messaging System Network matches the previously defined fraudulent activity exceeds fraud threshold conditions or matches fraud indicators. If the message does not match previously defined fraudulent activity exceed fraud threshold conditions and or match fraud indicators the message is allowed to proceed normally at step . However if the message matches the previously defined fraudulent activity exceeds fraud threshold conditions and or matches fraud indicators a fraud alert is triggered. Once a fraud alert is triggered information related to the fraudulent messaging activity is recorded in the Historical Data at step . The method proceeds to step .

At step at least one of three fraud mitigation actions is taken including Terminating in process messages initiated by the user account and or device at step Resetting Message System Network access credentials for the user account and or device at step or Blocking future Messages to the fraud location or address at step .

At step the fraud alert is passed to the Message Termination System . The Message Termination Service acts immediately to terminate all in process messages initiated by the affected user accounts and or devices . The Message Termination Service can issue instructions via the Fraud Monitoring Service to the Mobile Switching Center the Message Service Center or to the user accounts and or devices to terminate in process messages from the affected user accounts and or devices . These instructions may be sent via APIs or via a push pull notification disclosed in the discussion of above.

At step the fraud alert is passed to the Credential Reset Service . The Credential Reset Service contacts the Provisioning Server via the Fraud Monitoring Service and Mobile Switching Center and orders it to reset the credentials of the affected user accounts and or devices that are registered with the Messaging System Network . The Provisioning Server to immediately issues new messaging access credentials or messaging tokens for authentication on the Messaging System Network for the potentially compromised user accounts and or devices . The credential changes are handled through a secure channel or via push pull methods to the affected user accounts and or devices as disclosed in the discussion of above.

At step the fraud alert is sent to a Destination Blocking Service . The Destination Blocking Service receives the fraud alert and analyzes the messaging data to determine the destinations of the fraudulent messaging activity. The destination information for the potentially fraudulent messages can be granular such as a specific phone number or email address. This destination information for the messages can also be more general such as a calling area code country code or universal resource locator URL address. The Destination Blocking Service can issue instructions via the Fraud Monitoring Service to the Mobile Switching Center to immediately takes action to block further messages from user accounts and or devices connected to the Messaging System Network . The Destination Blocking Service can record this information in Historical Data such that the Messaging System Network can block all future fraudulent messaging activity associated with a particular messaging destination as disclosed in the discussion of above. The method ends at step .

Note in an alternate embodiment of the invention the activities occurring in steps may occur sequentially simultaneously or in any combination thereof. This allows the components of the Messaging Fraud Mitigation System to work together to immediately stop fraudulent activity while allowing authorized owners of the user accounts and or devices to continue to use their devices with minimal interruption.

Turning now to a method of resetting device or application credentials based upon a fraud mitigation alert is provided. The method is described in association with the Messaging Fraud Mitigation System described above. Beginning at step and proceeding to step the Credential Reset Service receives a fraud alert message from the Fraud Monitoring Service . The fraud alert message contains information for identifying the affected user accounts applications or devices . The Credential Reset Service then acts on this information to stop the fraudulent activity.

At step the Credential Reset Service parses the fraud alert message to identify the affected user accounts and or devices . The user accounts and or devices can be identified with the alert message by a packet header in the message that identifies the affected user account via its address phone number serial numbers subscriber identity modules SIM international mobile subscriber identity IMSI personal identification numbers PIN an account identifier and account password combination and the like. The identified user accounts and or devices can include an individual device a group of devices or messaging applications.

At step the Credential Reset Service sends a message to the Provisioning Server via the Fraud Monitoring Service to invalidate the message tokens for the affected user accounts and or devices .

At step the Credential Reset Service sends a message to the Provisioning Server via the Fraud Monitoring Service to reset the credentials and automatically assigns new user names and passwords for the affected user accounts and or devices . In addition the Credential Reset Service can also send a message to the Provisioning Server via the Fraud Monitoring Service to assign a new message token or new IP address and or DNS locations for the affected user accounts and or devices .

In an embodiment at step the Credential Reset Service provides Heart Beat Monitoring to the user accounts and or devices by periodically verifying that the user accounts and or devices are securely connected to the network and have not been tampered with. Therefore the Credential Reset Service monitors the user accounts and or devices for other suspicious activity including but not limited to an IP address change or a DNS location change for example. This monitoring can take place continuously by allowing the Provisioning Server to periodically ping the user accounts and or devices to ensure they are securely connected to the Messaging System Network . In a further embodiment the Provisioning Server periodically updates the credentials of the user accounts and or devices by assigning new credentials to these devices. Furthermore individual user accounts and or devices or a group of user accounts and or devices that have been consistently targeted by hackers or hacker devices may receive special attention from the Provisioning Server such that their credentials are more frequently updated either on an ongoing basis or for a set period of time via a feedback loop at step . The method ends at step .

Turning now to one skilled in the art will appreciate that the systems and methods disclosed herein can be implemented via a general purpose computing device in the form a computer . For example the user devices components of the Messaging System Network and the components of the Fraud Messaging Mitigation System may each comprise a computing device as described in . The components of the Messaging System Network and the components of the Fraud Messaging Mitigation System may each comprise a network of computing devices or a network distributed computing devices. The components of the computer can comprise but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the processor to the system memory . In the case of multiple processing units the system can utilize parallel computing.

The system bus represents one or more of several possible types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example such architectures can comprise an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus an Enhanced ISA EISA bus a Private Branch Exchange PBX bus a Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP bus and a Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI a PCI Express bus a Personal Computer Memory Card Industry Association PCMCIA Universal Serial Bus USB and the like. The bus and all buses specified in this description can also be implemented over a wired or wireless network connection and each of the subsystems including the processor a mass storage device an operating system software data a network adapter system memory an input output interface a display adapter a display device a human machine interface can be contained within one or more remote computing devices at physically separate locations connected through buses of this form in effect implementing a fully distributed system.

The computer typically comprises a variety of computer readable media. Exemplary readable media can be any available media that are accessible by the computer and comprise for example both volatile and non volatile media as well as removable and non removable media. The system memory comprises computer readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM . The system memory may contain data such as media video audio or other data and or program modules such as an operating system and software capable of manipulating translating transcoding or otherwise editing the data that are immediately accessible to and or presently operated on the by the processing unit .

In another aspect the computer can also comprise other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. By way of example illustrates a mass storage device which can provide non volatile storage of computer code computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . For example a mass storage device can be a hard disk a removable magnetic disk a removable optical disk magnetic cassettes or other magnetic storage devices flash memory cards CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage random access memories RAM read only memories ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and the like.

Optionally any number of program modules can be stored on the mass storage device including by way of example an operating system and hosted VoIP PX software . Both the operating system and hosted VoIP PX software or some combination thereof can comprise elements of the programming and the hosted VoIP PX software . Media video audio or other data can be stored in any of one or more databases known in the art. Examples of such databases comprise DB2 Microsoft Access Microsoft SQL Server Oracle MySQL PostgreSQL and the like. The databases can be centralized or distributed across multiple systems. Examples of hosted VoIP PX software include Asterisk FreeSwitch or Microsoft Lync server software.

In another aspect the user can enter commands and information into the computer via client device or an input device not shown . Example of such input devices comprise a keyboard pointing device e.g. a mouse a microphone a joystick a scanner tactile input devices such as gloves and other body coverings and the like. These and other input devices can be connected to the processing unit via a human machine interface that is coupled to the system bus but also can be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port IEEE 1394 Port also known as a Firewire port a serial port or a universal serial bus USB .

In yet another aspect a display device can also be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a display adapter . It is contemplated that the computer can have more than one display adapter and the computer can have more than one display device . For example a display device can be a monitor an LCD Liquid Crystal Display or a projector. In addition to the display device other output peripheral devices can comprise components such as speakers not shown and a printer not shown which can be connected to the computer via input output interface . Any step and or result of the methods can be output in any form to an output device. Such output can be any form of visual representation including but not limited to textual graphical animation audio tactile and the like. The display and computer can be part of one device or separate devices.

The computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computing devices . By way of example a remote computing device can be a personal computer portable computer smartphone softphone client device a server a router a network computer a peer device or other common network node and so on. Logical connections between the computer and remote computing device can be made via a network such as a local area network LAN and or a general wide area network WAN . Such network connections can be through a network adapter . A network adapter can be implemented in both wired and wireless environments. Such networking environments are conventional and commonplace in dwellings offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

For purposes of illustration application programs and other executable program components such as the operating system are illustrated herein as discrete blocks although it is recognized that such programs and components reside at various times in different storage components of the computing device and are executed by the data processor s of the computer. An implementation of media manipulation software can be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. Any of the disclosed methods can be executed by computer readable instructions embodied on computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not meant to be limiting computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media comprises volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any methods or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Exemplary computer storage media comprises but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

The methods and systems can employ Artificial Intelligence AI techniques such as machine learning and iterative learning. Examples of such techniques include but are not limited to expert systems case based reasoning Bayesian networks behavior based AI neural networks fuzzy systems evolutionary computation e.g. genetic algorithms swarm intelligence e.g. ant algorithms and hybrid intelligent system e.g. expert interference rules generated through a neural network or production rules from statistical learning .

In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs may implement or utilize the processes described in connection with the presently disclosed subject matter e.g. through the use of an API reusable controls or the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and it may be combined with hardware implementations.

Although exemplary implementations may refer to utilizing aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter in the context of one or more stand alone computer systems the subject matter is not so limited but rather may be implemented in connection with any computing environment such as a network or distributed computing environment. Still further aspects of the presently disclosed subject matter may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be affected across a plurality of devices. Such devices might include PCs network servers mobile phones softphones and handheld devices for example.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

