---

title: Rigidly foldable array of three-dimensional bodies
abstract: Rigidly foldable, foldable multi-body arrays or systems that may include three-dimensional bodies connected together by multiple hinges and reconfigurable between unfolded and folded configurations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09512618&OS=09512618&RS=09512618
owner: BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY
number: 09512618
owner_city: Provo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141119
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 906 807 filed on 20 Nov. 2013 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to Grant No. 1240417 between the National Science Foundation and Brigham Young University.

In some instances folding or compacting multiple three dimensional panels and or functional electrical components from a substantially planar configuration into a folded or a three dimensional configuration may facilitate storage and or transportation of such panels and or of the functional electrical components. For example functional electrical components may be multiple photovoltaic cells that in a substantially planar configuration may be deployed to supply electric power to appliances. Reconfiguring a multiple functional electrical components from a substantially planar configuration into a three dimensional folded configuration may facilitate transportation and or storage thereof e.g. when the functional electrical components are not in operation .

Accordingly users and manufacturers of devices and systems that include three dimensional panels and or functional electrical components continue to seek improvements to portability and storability of such devices and systems.

Embodiments disclosed herein relate to rigidly foldable foldable multi body arrays or systems that may include three dimensional objects or bodies e.g. rigid objects connected together by multiple hinges and reconfigurable between unfolded and folded configurations. In some embodiments in the unfolded configuration the rigidly foldable array may include multiple hinges that may generally lie in a single joint or hinge plane e.g. pivot axes of the hinges may generally lie in the hinge plane . Moreover generally the hinges may have any number of suitable orientations relative to one another which may facilitate folding and unfolding the three dimensional object between the folder and unfolded configurations.

At least one embodiment involves a foldable multi body array reconfigurable between folded and unfolded configurations. The foldable multi body array includes a plurality of hinges. For example each some or at least two hinges of the plurality of hinges may be oriented at a non parallel angle or substantially parallel relative to one another. The foldable multi body array further includes a plurality of three dimensional bodies connected together by the plurality of hinges. Each of the plurality of three dimensional bodies may be associated with at least one of the hinges and pivotable about the at least one of the hinges between the unfolded and folded configurations of the foldable multi body array. In the unfolded configuration each of the plurality of hinges approximately lies in a first plane. In the folded configuration each of the plurality of hinges approximately lies in a second plane.

One or more embodiments include a foldable multi body array reconfigurable between folded and unfolded configurations. The foldable multi body array includes a plurality of three dimensional bodies each having a first surface. At least a portion of each of the first surfaces is substantially planar. The foldable multi body array also includes a plurality of protrusions attached to at least some of the three dimensional bodies. For example the plurality of protrusions may be separately formed and attached to at least some of the three dimensional bodies or the plurality of protrusions may be integrally formed with at least some of the three dimensional bodies. Each of the plurality of protrusions extends away from at least one of the one or more first surfaces. The foldable multi body array further includes a plurality of hinges pivotably connecting together the plurality of three dimensional bodies in a manner that pivoting of the three dimensional bodies reconfigures the foldable multi body array between the folded and unfolded configurations. When the foldable multi body array is in the unfolded configuration at least some of the hinges generally lie in a first plane that is parallel with the at least one first surface of at least one of the plurality of three dimensional bodies and at least one hinge generally lies is offset from at least one of the one or more first surfaces.

Additional or alternative embodiments include a foldable multi body array reconfigurable between folded and unfolded configurations which includes a plurality of three dimensional bodies each including a plurality of surfaces. The foldable multi body array further includes a plurality of hinges pivotably connecting together the plurality of three dimensional bodies in a manner that pivoting of the three dimensional bodies reconfigures the foldable multi body array between the folded and unfolded configurations. When the foldable multi body array is in the unfolded configuration each of the plurality of hinges generally lies in a first plane at least one of the plurality of surfaces of each of the three dimensional bodies is offset from the first plane and the first plane and the plurality of the three dimensional bodies are non intersecting with each other.

Features from any of the disclosed embodiments may be used in combination with one another without limitation. In addition other features and advantages of the present disclosure will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art through consideration of the following detailed description and the accompanying drawings.

Embodiments disclosed herein relate to rigidly foldable foldable multi body arrays or systems that may include three dimensional objects or bodies e.g. rigid or flexible objects connected together by multiple hinges and reconfigurable between unfolded and folded configurations. In any of the embodiments disclosed herein the foldable multi body arrays may include an ordered array arrangement of the three dimensional objects or bodies or an unordered array arrangement of the three dimensional objects or bodies. In some embodiments in the unfolder configuration the rigidly foldable array may include multiple hinges that may generally lie in a single joint or hinge plane e.g. pivot axes of the hinges may generally lie in the hinge plane . Moreover generally the hinges may have any number of suitable orientations relative to one another which may facilitate folding and unfolding the three dimensional object between the folder and unfolded configurations.

In at least one embodiment after folding e.g. in the folded configuration the rigidly foldable system the hinges may be positioned or may generally lie in the same folded hinge plane. In some embodiments the folded hinge plane may be different from the unfolded hinge plane of the rigidly foldable system e.g. the folded and unfolded hinge planes may be offset from each other non parallel to each other etc. . Alternatively in some embodiments the folded and unfolded hinge plane may coincident to each other.

In one or more embodiments the rigidly foldable structure may include one or more extensions or protrusions extending away from one or more three dimensional bodies. For example one some or all of the hinges may be located at distal ends of the protrusions. In some embodiments at least some of the hinges may be generally lie in the same plane which may be offset from one or more surfaces of the three dimensional bodies.

In some embodiments the hinges connecting the three dimensional bodies in foldable multi body array may be interdependent such that movement of two three dimensional bodies about a connecting hinge may produce corresponding movement of other three dimensional bodies. For example pivoting two adjacent three dimensional bodies about the connecting hinge may reconfigure the foldable multi body array from the unfolded into the folded configuration. Also pivoting two adjacent three dimensional bodies about the connecting hinge may reconfigure the foldable multi body array from the folded into the unfolded configuration.

For ease of description references to top surfaces describe visible major surfaces of the bodies and reference to bottom surfaces describe major surface that are generally opposite to the top surface and are not visible in . It should be appreciated however the multi body array may be reoriented in any number of ways and surfaces thereof may face in any orientation. In addition the hinges are identified with enlarged points at pivot axes thereof. It should be appreciated however that the multi body array may include any number of suitable hinges e.g. flexible hinges membrane hinges rigid hinges etc. which may vary from one embodiment to the next. As such in some embodiments the bodies may be configured to accommodate one or more portions of the hinges in a manner that such portions do not interfere with the bodies during folding or unfolding of the multi body array into the folded and or unfolded configuration e.g. one or more of the bodies may include recesses cutouts openings etc. which may accept one or more portions of the hinges that may otherwise interfere with folding and or unfolding of the multi body array . For example the hinges may be positioned such that pivot axes thereof generally lie in the hinge plane.

In some embodiments at least a portion of the body may generally lie in the hinge plane . For example at least a portion of the bottom surface of the body may generally lie in the unfolded hinge plane . In an embodiment the bottom surface of the body may be coincidental with the hinge plane .

In an embodiment the multi body array may include one or more protrusions e.g. protrusions that may connect offset bodies e.g. offset bodies and to corresponding hinges e.g. hinges . Generally the protrusions may be connected to the respective bodies and in any number of ways and with any number of suitable mechanisms. For instance the protrusions may be glued fastened or otherwise secured to the bodies respectively. Alternatively or additionally the protrusions may be integrally formed with the bodies respectively.

In any event the protrusions may extend away from at least a portion of each of the respective bodies toward or to the hinge plane e.g. in a manner that would position the respective hinges in the hinge plane . Consequently in some embodiments one or more portions of the bodies may be offset from the hinge plane and or from at least one surface of the body . In particular for instance the protrusion may offset the body from the hinge plane in a manner that facilitates folding the body onto the body e.g. in a manner that accommodates the thickness of the body which may extend between the hinge plane and a top surface of the body .

Similarly the body may be offset from the hinge plane in a manner that facilitates folding the body onto the body . For example the top surface of the body may be offset from the hinge plane such that folding the body onto the body may place the top surface of the body near or adjacent to a top surface of the body . In any event in some embodiments bodies may include respective offset surfaces e.g. top surfaces which may be offset from the hinge plane in a manner that after the bodies are folded onto or near the respective bodies the offset surfaces may have sufficient offset or distance from the hinge plane to accommodate the respective thicknesses of the bodies . It should be appreciate that because the bodies may have any number of suitable shapes and sizes the term offset surface is used to describe an actual or an imaginary surface e.g. may be tangent to one or more portions of a non planar surface that may be define one or more points or portions of the body which may be portions of the body that are closest to the hinge plane.

In other words in some embodiments respective heights of the protrusions may produce sufficient offset between the respective top surfaces of the bodies and the hinge plane to accommodate folding together bodies and as well as bodies and . For instance the height of the protrusion may be equal to or greater than thickness of the body e.g. as defined by the distance between top and bottom surfaces or between the hinge plane and the top surface of the body . Similarly the height of the protrusion may be equal to or greater than thickness of the body e.g. as defined by the distance between top and bottom surfaces or between the hinge plane and the top surface of the body . Accordingly as described below in more detail when the bodies and as well as bodies and are folded together the respective protrusions may produce sufficient offsets such that the bodies do not physically interfere with one another when the multi body array is reconfigured from the unfolded configuration into the folded configuration.

Accordingly some of the bodies of the multi body array may be offset from the hinge plane by the protrusions that may connect such bodies to corresponding hinges. Moreover direction of the offset between a body and the hinge plane when the multi body array is in the unfolded configuration may depend on the direction of the pivoting or folding of the offset body. For instance the protrusion may offset the body from the hinge plane such that the body pivots generally or partially toward the hinge plane during reconfiguration of the multi body array from the unfolded configuration to the folded configuration. As described below in more detail in some embodiments some of the bodies may be offset from the hinge plane in a first direction while other bodies may be offset from that hinge plane and a second opposite direction. Furthermore protrusions connecting bodies to corresponding hinges may have sufficient length to accommodate any number of intervening bodies that may otherwise interfere with folding or pivoting of the offset bodies during the folding of the multi body array into the folded configuration.

As such protrusions e.g. protrusions may facilitate the bodies of the multi body array e.g. bodies having any suitable size and or suitable thickness. For example the bodies may have generally plate or panel like shapes box like shapes partially spherical shapes irregular shapes etc. Furthermore it should be appreciated that any of the bodies may be solid throughout or may be at least partially hollow. Likewise any of the bodies may include any number of recesses or openings therein.

Accordingly the bodies may include any number of functional components e.g. electronic functional components such as displays solar panels diffractive optical elements that collectively form a Fresnel lens radar emitters antennas circuit boards etc. may accommodate any number of suitable objects therein etc. For example any of the bodies may include or incorporate any number of the following or combinations thereof display solar panel etc. Alternatively or additionally any of the bodies may be configured to store one or more items e.g. any of the bodies may have a cavity or open space therein that may accommodate storage of any suitable item therein .

In any event the protrusions connecting the bodies to corresponding hinges may produce sufficient offset between the hinge plane and such bodies to accommodate pivoting or folding thereof to reconfigure the multi body array between folded and unfolded configurations. Hence the protrusions may have any suitable shape and or size to produce the offset between the offset bodies and the hinge plane . In an embodiment the protrusions may have generally prismoid shapes e.g. may have rectangular cross section along the lengths thereof . Alternatively or additionally the protrusions may have arcuate shapes irregular shapes or any number of suitable shapes and sizes. Moreover multiple protrusions may secure the body at one or more hinges.

In addition the multi body array may include one or more bodies that at least partially lie in the hinge plane and are not offset therefrom e.g. in addition to the body . For example at least a portion of the body may generally lie in the hinge plane e.g. bottom surface of the body may be coincidental to the hinge plane . As noted above in some embodiments the hinges of the multi body array may generally lie in the hinge plane and or the bottom surface of the body may generally lie in the hinge plane . Hence the body may fold toward and or onto the body such that bottom surface of the body and body face each other and or in contact with each other as described below.

In any event as described above the multi body array may be reconfigured from the unfolded configuration illustrated in into the folded configuration . illustrate a partially folded multi body array . Specifically as show in in at least one embodiment the bodies and may pivot clockwise while the body may pivot counterclockwise at the respective hinges . It should be appreciated that even though pivoting or folding may be described as one body folding onto another e.g. body folding onto the body generally the bodies may exhibit relative pivoting or folding e.g. the bodies and may pivot toward each other . In any case as shown in the bodies may continue pivoting toward one another. For instance as described above the protrusions may facilitate or accommodate pivoting of the body toward the body and the body toward the body without interference therebetween.

In some embodiments as shown in in the folded configuration the multi body array may have some or all of the hinges located in the same plane. For instance when the multi body array is in the folded configuration the hinges may generally lie in the hinge plane . In one or more embodiments one some or all of the hinges may generally lie in a plane that be different from the original or hinge plane . Furthermore as mentioned above in an embodiment when the multi body array is in the folded configuration at least one of the hinges may generally lie in the hinge plane .

While and the foregoing paragraphs describe at least one configuration of a foldable multi body array that may be reconfigurable between folded and unfolded configurations this disclosure is not so limited. In particular foldable multi body arrays may include any number of bodies that may have any number of suitable shapes sizes and configurations e.g. indents openings etc. . Moreover in some embodiments the bodies of the multi body array may be connected by independent hinges which may permit independent pivoting of one some or all of the bodies relative to other bodies e.g. the body may pivot about the hinge independently of the body which may pivot about the hinge .

For example a two dimensional rigidly foldable origami e.g. origami that may fold only at creases between sections or panels thereof may be reconfigured into a foldable multi body array by substituting three dimensional bodies for one some or all two dimensional panels of the two dimensional origami and providing suitable protrusions to accommodate pivoting of such three dimensional bodies e.g. to provide suitable offset between the hinge plane and the three dimensional bodies to accommodate or avoid otherwise interfering bodies or portions thereof when the foldable multi panel array is reconfigured from the unfolded into the folded configuration . Alternatively however the multi body array may include some or all of the bodies that may pivot or fold in an interdependent manner e.g. pivoting of two bodies about one hinge may force pivoting of all of the bodies about respective hinges in a manner that folds the multi body array from the unfolded configuration into the folded configuration or unfolds the folded multi body array into the unfolded configuration .

For example illustrate a schematic of a mountain mountain valley valley MMVV square twist crease fold pattern origami that may be modified from a two dimensional construction to include three dimensional bodies according to one or more embodiments. More specifically illustrates a schematic of a multi body array that may include or may be modified to include bodies foldably connected one to another with corresponding hinges . Except as otherwise described herein the multi body array may be similar to or the same as the multi body array .

For ease of description similar to references to top surfaces describe visible major surfaces of the bodies and reference to bottom surfaces describe major surface that are opposite to the top surface and are not visible in . It should be appreciated however the multi body array may be reoriented in any number of ways and surfaces thereof may face in any orientation. In any event in at least one embodiment body may be pivoted about the hinge such that the top surfaces of the bodies move toward each other and or contact each other. Moreover the bodies may be pivoted about the hinge such that the top surfaces thereof move toward each other and or contact each other. Likewise the bodies may be pivoted about the hinge such that the top surfaces thereof move toward each other and or contact each other.

In some embodiments the body may include an approximately planar top surface. Also the top surface of the body may be coincident with an unfolded hinge plane of the multi body array e.g. plane in which all hinges may generally lie when the multi body array is in the unfolded configuration . It should be appreciated however that the body may have any number of suitable configurations which may include at least partially non planar surfaces e.g. stepped recessed etc. such as to accommodate surface s of one or more bodies when the multi body array is in the folded configuration curved surfaces irregular surfaces etc.

Similarly to reconfigure the multi body array into the folded configuration in at least one embodiment the bodies may be pivoted about the hinge such that the bottom surfaces thereof move toward each other and or contact each other. In addition the bodies may be pivoted about the hinge such that the bottom surfaces thereof move toward each other and or contact each other. Also the bodies may be pivoted about the hinge such that the bottom surfaces thereof move toward each other and or contact each other.

Furthermore to reconfigure the multi body array into the folded configuration the bodies may pivot about respective hinges such that the body may be positioned over the body e.g. top surfaces thereof may be in contact with each other the body may be positioned over the body e.g. bottom surfaces thereof may be in contact with each other the body is positioned over the body e.g. top surfaces thereof may be in contact with each other . Furthermore the bodies may pivot about respective hinges such that the body is positioned under the body e.g. bottom surfaces thereof may be in contact with each other the body may be positioned under the body e.g. top surfaces thereof may be in contact with each other the body may be positioned under the body e.g. bottom surfaces thereof may be in contact with each other .

Hence in the folded configuration the bodies of the multi body array may be arranged in the following sequence At least a portion of the body may be located at an original location or plane e.g. the top surface of the body may be at the hinge plane . The bodies and may be positioned above the body e.g. on top of and or above the top surface thereof in the listed sequence. Moreover in some embodiments orientations of the top and bottom surfaces of the bodies and may be alternating e.g. the top surface of the body may face upward while the top surface of a subsequent body may face downward . The bodies may be positioned under the body e.g. on under and or below the bottom surface thereof in the listed sequence. In addition orientations of the top and bottom surfaces of the bodies and may be alternating e.g. the top surface of the body may face upward while the top surface of a subsequent body may face downward .

In other words when the multi body array is in the folded configuration bodies and may be offset bodies e.g. offset from the hinge plane which may have an offset surface that may face the hinge plane and may be offset therefrom by an offset distance that is at least equal to the sum of thicknesses of interfering or intervening elements e.g. bodies protrusions hinges etc. between the offset surface and the hinge plane. For example in the folded configuration the bottom surface of the offset body may be the offset surface thereof e.g. may face the hinge plane the offset surface of the body may be offset from the top surface of the body . In particular the offset surface of the body may be at an offset distance that equals at least to the thickness of the body which may be between the offset surface of the body and the hinge plane. Also the top surface of the offset body may be the offset surface thereof and may be offset from the hinge plane. Specifically for instance the offset distance between the offset surface and the hinge plane may be at least to the sum of thicknesses of the body and body the body may be positioned between the offset surface and the bottom surface of the body the thickness of body may be the distance between the bottom surfaces thereof and the hinge plane .

Similarly in the folded configuration the offset bodies may have an offset surface that may face and may be offset from the hinge plane by the sum of thicknesses of the intervening elements. For example the bottom surface of the offset body may be the offset surface thereof which may be offset from the hinge plane by an offset distance. More specifically the offset distance between the offset surface of the body and the hinge plane may be at least the thickness of the body which may be positioned between the hinge plane and the offset surface of the offset body . Likewise the top surface of offset body may be the offset surface thereof which may be offset from the hinge plane by an offset distance. For instance the offset distance between the offset surface of the body and the hinge plane may be the sum of thicknesses of the bodies which may be positioned between the offset surface of the offset body and the hinge plane. It should be appreciated that in at least one embodiment the top surface of the body may be in contact with the top surface of the body e.g. the top surface of the body may generally lie in or may be generally coincidental to the hinge plane such that the offset distance for the top surface of the body substantially zero .

As described above the bodies may have any number of suitable thicknesses. Moreover as described above the hinges which may connect together the bodies may generally lie in the same reference plane when the multi body array is in the unfolded configuration e.g. in the hinge plane which may be coincidental with the top surface of the body . Hence for example when the multi body array is in the unfolded configuration offset surfaces of corresponding offset bodies may be offset or positioned at the respective suitable offset distances from the hinge plane. Furthermore in some embodiments when the multi body array is in the folded configuration the hinges may generally lie in the same reference plane e.g. in the original hinge plane .

As described above for instance when the multi body array is in the folded configuration offset bodies that were folded to stack on top of and or above the top surface of the body may have one or more intervening elements e.g. one or more bodies protrusions hinges or combinations thereof between respective offset surfaces thereof and the hinge plane. Hence to accommodate such intervening elements each of the offset bodies may be offset from the hinge plane when the multi body array is in the unfolded configuration. More specifically in the unfolded configuration each offset body may be offset from the hinge plane by the offset distance that as described above may be the sum of thicknesses of the intervening elements between the hinge plane and the offset surface of the offset body when the multi body array is in the folded configuration .

Also when the multi body array is in the folded configuration offset bodies folded to stack under and or below the bottom surface of the body may have one or more intervening elements e.g. one or more bodies protrusions hinges or combinations thereof between offset surfaces thereof and the hinge plane. Hence to accommodate such intervening elements each of the offset surfaces of the offset bodies may be offset from the hinge plane by respective offset distances when the multi body array is in the unfolded configuration. Specifically the offset distances between the respective offset bodies and the hinge plane may facilitate folding the multi body array such as to position the intervening elements between the offset surfaces of the offset body and the hinge plane. More specifically when the multi body array is in the unfolded configuration each of the offset surfaces of the corresponding offset bodies may be offset from the hinge plane by a corresponding offset distance which may be the sum of thicknesses of the intervening elements between the hinge plane and the corresponding offset surface. It should be appreciated that such sum of thicknesses may include the thickness of the body as the body may intervene between the offset surfaces of the offset body and the hinge plane.

Generally the offset bodies may be offset from the hinge plane in any number of ways and with any number of suitable mechanisms. In some embodiments as described above the multi body array may include one or more protrusions e.g. protrusions that may position the offset bodies at corresponding offset distances from the hinge plane. For instance the offset surface of the body may be offset from the hinge plane by an offset distance that may be at least the thickness of the body . Generally the direction of offset of the offset surface from the hinge plane may be opposite to the direction of the pivoting or folding of the body . In other words the direction of the offset may be such that after the body is folded onto the body the offset surface of the body may be at the offset distance from the hinge plane such as to accommodate the body therebetween.

Hence in at least one embodiment the hinges may be connected to or incorporated with the body and may offset the body from the hinge plane to produce offset distance therebetween. Moreover as noted above the protrusions may hingedly connect the offset body to one or more bodies e.g. the hinges about which the offset body pivots may remain in the hinge plane . For instance the hinge s may secure the protrusions to the top surface of the body e.g. at the hinge plane . As mentioned above the hinges and protrusions are illustrated schematically hence the protrusion may be connected to other protrusions and or to bodies with one or more hinges.

In an embodiment the body may pivot about the hinge such that the bottom surface thereof faces hinge plane and the bodies which separate the body from the hinge plane. Hence for example the offset surface of the body may be offset from the hinge plane by an offset distance that is equal to at least the sum of thicknesses of the bodies . For instance one or more protrusions may offset the body and the offset surface thereof by the suitable distance relative to the hinge plane e.g. in the direction that is generally opposite to pivoting of the body such as out of the plane or in the direction of the top surface body .

Moreover as described above the bodies and may pivot about the hinge such that bottom surfaces thereof move toward each other and or contact each other. Hence offset surface of the body may be offset from the body e.g. from the bottom surface of the body at least by the thickness of the body such as to accommodate folding together. More specifically in an embodiment the body may be offset from the body by one or more protrusions such that the offset surface of the body is offset from the top surface of the body by at least the thickness of the body .

As mentioned above the bodies may be positioned above the hinge plane and above the top surface of the body and may be between the offset surface of the body e.g. bottom surface thereof and the hinge plane when the multi body array is in the folded configuration. Hence the offset distance between the offset surface of the body and the hinge plane may be sufficient to accommodate the bodies therebetween e.g. the offset distance between the hinge plane and the offset surface of the body may be at least the sum of the thicknesses of the bodies . For instance the body may be offset from the body by protrusions .

As described above the body may be offset from the hinge plane and from the body by protrusions . As such to facilitate the relative offset between the bodies and e.g. since the body may be offset by at least the thickness of the body and the body may be offset by at least the sum of thicknesses of the body and the body the body may include a protrusion which may extend toward the body and toward the protrusions . In some embodiments the hinge s may connect together the protrusions and thereby pivotably connecting the bodies and . For example the protrusions may extend from the body downward toward the hinge plane and the protrusions may extend upward from the body toward the hinge plane and the hinge therebetween may generally lie in the hinge plane.

Also when the multi body array is in the folded configuration the body may have a greater offset distance or may be farther from the hinge plane than the body . Hence the protrusions may accommodate the relative offset between the bodies and and the hinge may be formed between the protrusions . For example the protrusions may extend downward from the body toward the hinge plane and the protrusions may extend upward from the body toward the hinge plane and may be connected to the protrusion by the hinge which may generally lie in the hinge plane.

In some embodiments at least one body may have no offset from the body . For example the body may have the top surface thereof generally lying in the same plane as the body e.g. in the hinge plane . Accordingly the top surface of the body may be directly connected to the top surface of the body with one or more hinges such as with a hinge which may generally lie in the hinge plane.

Furthermore as mentioned above the hinges may connect the bodies in an interdependent manner such that pivoting of two bodies may produce pivoting of some or all other bodies to reconfigure the multi body array between the folded and unfolded configurations. In at least one embodiment some of the bodies may be connected to multiple other bodies with multiple hinges which may have non parallel orientation relative to one another. For example the body may be connected to the body with the hinge and to the body with the hinge and the hinges and may have non parallel orientation relative to each other e.g. the hinges and may form an obtuse angle therebetween .

While the above describes offsets and protrusion of only some of the bodies it should be appreciated that all of the bodies that have not been specifically described may be offset from the hinge plane based on the principles described above. Furthermore in some embodiments when the multi body array is in the folded configuration some or all of the hinges may generally lie in the same plane e.g. hinge plane . In at least one embodiment the hinge plane in the folded configuration may be the same as or coincide with the hinge plane in the unfolded configuration. Also to facilitate positioning the hinges in the same plane in some instances one or more bodies may have openings that may allow one or more corresponding protrusions to pass therethrough and toward or to the hinge plane when the multi body array is reconfigured into the folded configuration .

Furthermore as described above a body may be separated or offset from the hinge plane by one or more bodies. As such the folding paths of the protrusions may be further projected through subsequent folds of the multi body array to determine locations of the openings in additional or alternative bodies. For instance the protrusions may be projected onto the body as noted above the thickness of the body may separate the offset surface of the body from the hinge plane . Hence for example projection lines may project protrusions onto the body to determine locations of openings which may allow the protrusions to pass through the thickness of the body and to the hinge plane. The same procedure may be used to determine locations for all openings in the bodies which may be necessary to allow various protrusions to pass through the intervening bodies and to the hinge plane.

As mentioned above any rigidly foldable origami may be modified to include one or more three dimensional bodies to form a multi body array according to one or more embodiments described herein. illustrate an embodiment of a multi body array which may be reconfigured between unfolded configuration and folded configuration according to an embodiment. More specifically in the multi body array is illustrated in the unfolded configuration and with top surfaces of a body faces upward e.g. visible in the multi body array is illustrates in the folded configuration but flipped over for visibility of additional features such that the top surface of the body face downward not visible and the bottom surface thereof faces upward visible . As mentioned above references to top and bottom surfaces and to upward and downward directions are used for ease of description and are not intended to limit the embodiments to a particular orientation. Except as otherwise described herein the multi body array and its elements and components may be similar to or the same as any multi body arrays and their respective elements and components.

As shown in in at least one embodiment the multi body array may include multiple hinges that may connect together corresponding bodies of the multi body array . Moreover in some embodiments some or all of the hinges may generally lie in a hinge plane. For instance the multi body array may include a body which may include a top surface that is substantially coplanar or coincidental with the hinge plane. In an embodiment the multi body array may include bodies hingedly connected to the body and to one another. In some embodiments the hinges connecting the bodies may generally lie in the same reference plane e.g. in the hinge plane . Moreover as described above some or all of the bodies may be offset from the hinge plane by one or more protrusions which may hingedly connect the offset bodies to other protrusions and or to other bodies.

According to at least one embodiment the top surface of the body and the top surface of the body may generally lie in the hinge plane and the bodies may be pivotably connected together by a hinge which may also generally lie in the hinge plane. Generally bodies may pivot or fold in a manner identified by the arrows in . For instance the body may be folded onto the body as can be seen in .

For example the bodies and may generally move or pivot toward the body as indicated with the arrows in . In some embodiments when the multi body array is in the folded configuration the bodies may generally face in the same direction as in the unfolded configuration as can be seen in . For example the body may pivot relative to the body about hinge and may pivot about another hinge that may pivotably connect the body to the body e.g. a hinge that maybe similar to or the same as a hinge which pivotably connects the body to the body . The body may be hingedly connected to the bodies and in a manner that is similar to the hinged connection between the body and bodies .

In any event for instance when the multi body array is reconfigured into the folded configuration the body may be sandwiched between the bodies and and the body may be sandwiched between the bodies and . In other words the offset surfaces of the bodies e.g. surfaces facing toward the hinge plane may be positioned at an offset distance from the hinge plane to accommodate positioning the body between the offset surfaces of the bodies and the hinge plane. Moreover such offset distance e.g. distance between the bottom surfaces of the bodies and the hinge plane may be the same in the folded configuration as in the unfolded configuration. Hence in the unfolded configuration the bodies may be offset bodies which may be offset from the hinge plane by respective protrusions such that the offset surfaces of the bodies may be at the offset distance that is at least equal to the thickness of the body .

As mentioned above when the multi body array is in the folded configuration the bodies may be positioned above the hinge plane and on top of the bodies respectfully as shown in . For example the top surfaces of the bodies and may face downward and toward the hinge plane e.g. the top surface of the body may face and or may be in contact with the top surface of the body and the top surface of the body may face and or may be in contact with the top surface of the body as shown in . In other words the offset surface of the body e.g. top surface thereof may be at an offset distances from the hinge plane which may be at least equal to the sum of thicknesses of the bodies that may be positioned between the offset surface and the hinge plane. Similarly the offset surface of the body e.g. top surface thereof may be at an offset distances that may be at least equal to the sum of thicknesses of the bodies which may be positioned between the offset surface and the hinge plane.

In some embodiments the body may be offset from the hinge plane by protrusions . More specifically the protrusions may be connected to or at respective hinges which may generally lie in the hinge plane and which may hingedly connect the body to the bodies respectively. In other words the protrusions may extend from the offset surface of the body toward and or to the hinge plane. For instance the protrusion may extend toward or to the hinge plane and may be hingedly connected to the protrusion thereby hingedly connecting the bodies and . Similarly protrusion may extend toward and or to the hinge plane and may be hingedly connected to or at the top surface of the body by the hinge which may generally lie in the hinge plane. Also the protrusion may extend toward and or to the hinge plane and may be hingedly connected to protrusion of the body by hinge which may generally lie in the hinge plane. In any event in some instances protrusions may be connected to other protrusions and or bodies thereby hingedly connecting together bodies of the multi body array .

In an embodiment bodies may pivot and or fold in a manner that may be similar to the pivot or folding of the bodies as indicated by the arrows in and shown in . For example the body may generally pivot toward the bottom surface of the body e.g. the bottom surface of the body may move toward and or may contact the bottom surface of the body . Hence the offset surface of the body e.g. bottom surface thereof may be offset from the hinge plane such that after folding onto the body the offset surface may be offset from the hinge plane by the thickness of the body e.g. to accommodate positioning the body between the offset surface of the body and the hinge plane.

In some embodiments protrusions may offset the body from the hinge plane. For example protrusion may hingedly connect the body at hinge which may generally lie in the hinge plane and may be connected at or near the top surface of the body . Furthermore hinge may also extend from the offset surface of the body toward or to the hinge plane and may be hingedly connected to body with hinge e.g. to protrusion of the body . In any event the body may fold onto the bottom surface of the body and may be offset from the hinge plane by the thickness of the body .

In at least one embodiment the body may be sandwiched between the bottom surface of the body and top surfaces of the bodies as shown in . As such the offset surfaces of the bodies e.g. top surfaces thereof may be offset from the bottom surface of the body by the thickness of the body . Hence the offset surfaces of the bodies may be offset from the hinge plane by the offset distance that is at least the sum of thicknesses of the bodies and . Accordingly one or more protrusions may extent from the bodies e.g. extending from respective offset surfaces thereof toward and or to the hinge plane e.g. offsetting the top surfaces of the bodies from the hinge plane .

For example protrusions may extend from the body toward and or to the hinge plane. In an embodiment the hinge may connect the protrusion to the protrusion of the body thereby hingedly connecting together the bodies and . Analogously the hinge may connect the protrusion to the protrusion of the body thereby hingedly connecting together the bodies . The body may be hingedly connected to the bodies and in a manner that may be similar to the hinged connections between the body and bodies . For instance protrusion may extend from the body and may hingedly connect the body to the body e.g. to protrusion of the body thereby offsetting the body from the hinge plane. In any event the bodies and may be offset from the hinge plane such that when the multi body array is reconfigured into the folded configuration the offset surfaces e.g. top surfaces of the bodies may be at an offset distance from the hinge plane which may be at least equal to the thickness of intervening elements or components positioned between the offset surfaces and the hinge plane e.g. body and body .

Moreover as mentioned above in some embodiments when the multi body array is reconfigured into the folded configuration some or all of the hinges may generally lie in the hinge plane e.g. which may be the same as the hinge plane in the unfolded configuration . As such in some examples one or more protrusions connected to the hinges may require passing through one or more bodies which may generally lie between such protrusions and the hinge plane. For example the body may include openings which may allow one or more protrusions to pass therethrough and toward or to the hinge plane. For instance protrusions may enter and or pass through the opening when the multi body array is in the folded configuration and the protrusions connecting bodies not visible may enter and or pass through the opening see also . In any case in one or more embodiments the bodies may include sufficient or suitable openings cutouts etc. which may accommodate one or more protrusions that may enter and or pass therethrough to be positioned at or near the hinge plane when the multi body array is in the folded configuration.

In one or more embodiments the bodies of the multi body array may have one some or all substantially planar surfaces. Furthermore in some embodiments when the multi body array is in the unfolded configuration top and bottom surfaces of the multi body array may be substantially parallel one to another. In some embodiments when the multi body array is in the folded configuration the top and bottom surfaces of the multi body array also may be parallel one to another and or may be stacked together e.g. at least some of the top bottom surfaces may be contact one another .

In some embodiments as described above some or all of the hinges of the multi body array may lie in the hinge plane e.g. when the multi body array is in the unfolded and or in the folded configurations . Furthermore in some examples the hinge plane may not pass through or intersect any of the three dimensional bodies . In other words for instance each of the three dimensional bodies of the multi body array may include multiple surfaces and the hinge plane may be non intersecting with the three dimensional bodies and or with the surfaces thereof. It should be appreciated however that as described above in at least one example the hinge plane may be parallel to and or coplanar or coincidental with surfaces of one or more of the three dimensional bodies .

As noted above pivoting of the bodies of the multi body array may be interdependent e.g. relative pivoting of two adjacent bodies may produce corresponding pivoting of all of the bodies to reconfigure the multi body array to the folded or unfolded configuration . In some examples one or more hinges may be biased in a manner that may reconfigure the multi body array from the unfolded configuration into the folded configuration or vice versa. Generally any number of suitable biasing elements may be included in the multi body array e.g. springs pressurized cylinders elastic bands etc. . For instance such hinge s and or one or more biasing elements may be biased by reconfiguring the multi body array from the unfolded to the folded configuration e.g. the multi body array may be maintained or constrained in the folded configuration by one or more restraints removal of the restraints may allow the biasing element to reconfigure the multi body array into the unfolded configuration . Also such hinge s and or one or more biasing elements may be biased by reconfiguring the multi body array from the folded to the unfolded configuration e.g. the multi body array may be maintained or constrained in the unfolded configuration by one or more restraints removal of the restraints may allow the biasing element to reconfigure the multi body array into the folded configuration . Alternatively or additionally one or more drivers e.g. motors powered pistons etc. which may produce relative pivoting between at least two bodies of the multi body array thereby reconfiguration the multi body array between the folded and unfolded configurations.

In some embodiments the multi body array may include two or more bodies that may interfere or intersect with one another as the bodies pivot relative to one another and the multi body array is reconfigured from unfolded configuration into the folded configuration or vice versa. For example the multi body array may be reconfigured from the unfolded into a partially folded configuration as the interference or intersection between two or more bodies may prevent the multi body array from being reconfigured into the fully folded configuration e.g. as described above . Except for the interference between two or more bodies e.g. due to shapes and or sizes of the interfering bodies such multi body array may be similar to or the same as any of the multi body arrays described above. In other words modifying one or more of the interfering or intersecting bodies to eliminate the interference therebetween would permit such multi body array to be reconfigured between the unfolded and folded configurations.

Hence in one or more embodiments hinges connecting together the bodies of the multi body array may lie in different planes e.g. when the multi body array in a partially folded unfolded configuration . As noted above however for example modifying the bodies in a manner that would eliminate or reduce interference therebetween such as to permit folding unfolding of the multi body array between fully folded and fully unfolded configurations may also permit positioning the hinges in the hinge planes which may coincide in the folded and in the unfolded configurations . Furthermore as described above the bodies may include or comprise any suitable material which may be flexible resilient compliant etc. More specifically for instance one or more of the bodies may include sufficiently flexible and or compliant material that bends or deforms e.g. elastically deform in manner that may accommodate interference or intersection between two or more bodies during folding unfolding of the multi body array. For instance one or more of the interfering or intersecting bodies may bend and or deform in a manner that permits the multi body array to be reconfigured between fully folded and fully unfolded configurations e.g. in the folded configuration one or more bodies may be bent or deformed due to interference with one or more other bodies .

Additionally or alternatively the hinges may be flexible or compliant and or may have or permit lateral movement. For example the hinges may bend or otherwise deform e.g. elastically deform to permit the interfering bodies to move or pivot past one another thereby permitting the multi body array to be reconfigured between the fully folded and or unfolded configurations. In any event it should be appreciated that the interfering portions of the interfering or intersecting bodies of the multi body array may deform and or move past one another such as to allow the multi body array to be reconfigured into the folded and or unfolded configurations.

While some features of embodiments are described in absolute terms e.g. planarity orientation such as parallel coincident etc. location colocation such as all or some elements being located at the same location etc. it should be appreciated that absolute terms are used only for ease of description. In particular one having ordinary skill in the art should appreciate that dimensions orientation s location s etc. of various features of the embodiments provided in this disclosure may deviate from absolute precision e.g. depending on manufacturing techniques practical tolerance materials used etc. and such deviations are within the scope of this disclosure.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments are contemplated. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting.

