---

title: Vehicle navigation systems and methods for presenting information originating from a mobile device
abstract: Vehicle navigation systems and methods for presenting information originating from a mobile device on a vehicle navigation system display of a vehicle are disclosed. In one embodiment, a method of presenting information originating from a mobile device on a vehicle navigation system display of a vehicle includes receiving, by a vehicle navigation system, application data from an application operating on the mobile device, wherein the application data from the application represents an entity in proximity to the vehicle. The method further includes displaying an icon representing the application data from the application on a map presented on the vehicle navigation system display. The icon is positioned on the map according to a geographic location of the entity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09335182&OS=09335182&RS=09335182
owner: Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 09335182
owner_city: Aichi-Ken
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140919
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 541 115 filed Jul. 3 2012 and titled Vehicle Navigation Systems and Methods for Presenting Information Originating from a Mobile Device the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference.

The present specification generally relates to vehicle navigation systems and more particularly to vehicle navigation systems configured to receive application data from applications running on a communicatively coupled mobile device.

Vehicle navigation systems are used in vehicles to present information to a driver and or passenger of a vehicle. Such information may include geographic information such as a map of roads that are in proximity to the vehicle. Other information may also be presented such as traffic information and in the case of infotainment systems audio features such as radio functionality compact disc player functionality digital music playback functionality and the like.

Mobile devices such as smart phones tablet computers and the like may run a plurality of applications that have particular functions. The functions may include social media functions e.g. Twitter Facebook etc. presentation of surrounding business information e.g. OpenTable Yelp etc. presentation of general information weather applications sports scores and productivity functions word processing calculators etc. . Accordingly mobile devices are capable of receiving and providing a large amount of useful information.

According to one embodiment a method of presenting information originating from a mobile device on a vehicle navigation system display of a vehicle includes receiving by a vehicle navigation system application data from an application operating on the mobile device wherein the application data from the application represents an entity in proximity to the vehicle. The method further includes displaying an icon representing the application data from the application on a map presented on the vehicle navigation system display. The icon is positioned on the map according to a geographic location of the entity.

According to another embodiment a vehicle navigation system includes one or more processors a vehicle navigation system display communicatively coupled to the one or more processors a user input device communicatively coupled to the one or more processors a satellite module communicatively coupled to the one or more processors and configured to provide geographic location data to the one or more processors and a computer readable medium storing computer executable instructions. The computer executable instructions when executed by the one or more processors cause the vehicle navigation system to receive the geographic location data from the satellite module. The geographic location data is indicative of a geographic location of a vehicle associated with the vehicle navigation system. The computer executable instructions further cause the vehicle navigation system to generate and display a map corresponding to a proximity of the geographic location of the vehicle and receive application data from an application operating on a mobile device wherein the application data from the application represents an entity in proximity to the vehicle. In accordance with the computer executable instructions the vehicle navigation system further displays an icon representing the application data from the application on the map wherein the icon is positioned on the map according to a geographic location of the entity.

These and additional features provided by the embodiments described herein will be more fully understood in view of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to navigation systems such as vehicle navigation systems and methods wherein information generated or otherwise provided by an application running on a mobile device such as a cell phone is sent to the navigation system and displayed at a geographic location on a map that is presented on the display of the navigation system. For example an application running on the mobile device may be configured to determine entities that are in proximity to the mobile device and provide information regarding such entities. For example the entities may be nearby points of interest such as restaurants. The information provided by the application may include names of the restaurants physical addresses of the restaurants price ranges of the particular dishes served by the restaurants and the like. In the embodiments described herein application data provided by the various applications is communicated from the mobile device to the navigation system and icons representing the entities are displayed at the appropriate location on the map according to the physical addresses of the entities. A user may then select an icon for more detail regarding the entity and to take further action such as request directions to the selected entity. As described in detail below embodiments may also provide the ability for the navigation system to detect compatible applications running on the mobile device and the ability for a user to select the application data for which applications he or she wishes to be displayed on the display of the navigation system.

Various embodiments of methods for presenting information originating from a mobile device on a navigation system as well as navigation system capable of receiving and displaying application data from a mobile device are described in detail below.

Referring now to an embodiment of a navigation system is schematically depicted. It is noted that while the navigation system is depicted in isolation the navigation system may be coupled to a vehicle not depicted in the figures . The vehicle may be an automobile or any other passenger or non passenger vehicle such as for example a terrestrial aquatic and or airborne vehicle. Although the navigation system is referred to herein as a vehicle navigation system it should be understood that in some embodiments the navigation system may not be associated with a vehicle such as hand held global positioning system GPS units.

The vehicle navigation system may include one or more processors . Each of the one or more processors can be any device capable of executing machine readable instructions. Accordingly each of the one or more processors may be a controller an integrated circuit a microchip a computer or any other computing device. The one or more processors can be coupled to a communication path that provides signal interconnectivity between various modules of the vehicle navigation system . Accordingly the communication path can communicatively couple any number of processors with one another and allow the modules of the vehicle navigation system coupled to the communication path to operate in a distributed computing environment. Specifically each of the modules can operate as a node that may send and or receive data. As used herein the term communicatively coupled means that coupled components are capable of exchanging data signals with one another such as for example electrical signals via conductive medium over the air electromagnetic signals optical signals via optical waveguides and the like.

Accordingly the communication path can be formed from any medium that is capable of transmitting a signal such as for example conductive wires conductive traces optical waveguides or the like. Moreover the communication path can be formed from a combination of mediums capable of transmitting signals. In one embodiment the communication path can comprise a combination of conductive traces conductive wires connectors and buses that cooperate to permit the transmission of electrical data signals to components such as processors memories sensors input devices output devices and communication devices. Accordingly the communication path can comprise a vehicle bus such as for example a LIN bus a CAN bus a VAN bus and the like. Additionally it is noted that the term signal means a waveform e.g. electrical optical magnetic mechanical or electromagnetic such as DC AC sinusoidal wave triangular wave square wave vibration and the like capable of traveling through a medium.

The vehicle navigation system may include one or more memory modules coupled to the communication path . The one or more memory modules may be configured as RAM ROM flash memories hard drives and or any device capable of storing machine readable instructions such that the machine readable instructions can be accessed by the one or more processors . The machine readable instructions can comprise logic or algorithm s written in any programming language of any generation e.g. 1GL 2GL 3GL 4GL or 5GL such as for example machine language that may be directly executed by the processor or assembly language object oriented programming OOP scripting languages microcode etc. that may be compiled or assembled into machine readable instructions and stored on the one or more memory modules . Alternatively the machine readable instructions may be written in a hardware description language HDL such as logic implemented via either a field programmable gate array FPGA configuration or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or their equivalents. Accordingly the methods described herein may be implemented in any conventional computer programming language as pre programmed hardware elements or as a combination of hardware and software components.

Still referring to the vehicle navigation system comprises a display for providing visual output such as for example maps navigation entertainment information or combinations thereof. The display can be coupled to the communication path . Accordingly the communication path can communicatively couple the display to other modules of the vehicle navigation system . The display can include any medium capable of transmitting an optical output such as for example a cathode ray tube light emitting diodes a liquid crystal display a plasma display or the like. Moreover the display can be a touch screen that in addition to providing optical information detects the presence and location of a tactile input upon a surface of or adjacent to the display. Accordingly each display can receive mechanical input directly upon the optical output provided by the display. Additionally it is noted that the display can include at least one of the one or more processors and the one or more memory modules .

In some embodiments the vehicle navigation system may also comprise tactile input hardware coupled to the communication path such that the communication path communicatively couples the tactile input hardware to other modules of the vehicle navigation system . The tactile input hardware can be any device capable of transforming mechanical optical or electrical signals into a data signal capable of being transmitted with the communication path . Specifically the tactile input hardware can include any number of movable objects that each transform physical motion into a data signal that can be transmitted over the communication path such as for example a button a switch a knob a microphone or the like. In some embodiments the display and the tactile input hardware can be combined as a single module and operate as an audio head unit or an infotainment system of a vehicle. However it is noted that the display and the tactile input hardware can be separate from one another and operate as a single module by exchanging signals via the communication path .

The vehicle navigation system may also include a peripheral tactile input coupled to the communication path such that the communication path communicatively couples the peripheral tactile input to other modules of the vehicle navigation system . For example in one embodiment the peripheral tactile input can be located in a vehicle console to provide additional location for receiving input. The peripheral tactile input operates in a manner substantially similar to the tactile input hardware i.e. the peripheral tactile input includes movable objects and transforms motion of the movable objects into a data signal that can be transmitted over the communication path . For example the peripheral tactile input may be configured as a moveable joystick or knob.

The vehicle navigation system further comprises a satellite module coupled to the communication path such that the communication path communicatively couples the satellite module to other modules of the vehicle navigation system . The satellite module is configured to receive signals from global positioning system satellites. Specifically in one embodiment the satellite module can include one or more conductive elements acting as an antenna that interact with electromagnetic signals transmitted by global positioning system satellites. The received signal can be transformed into a data signal indicative of the location e.g. latitude and longitude of the satellite module or an object positioned near the satellite module by the one or more processors . The received signal can be transformed that corresponds to the location e.g. latitude and longitude of the satellite module . Additionally it is noted that the satellite module can include at least one of the one or more processors and the one or more memory modules .

In embodiments where the vehicle navigation system is coupled to a vehicle the one or more processors can execute machine readable instructions to transform the signals received by the satellite module into data indicative of the positioning of the vehicle with respect to road data i.e. the vehicle position can be indicated on a map. The road data can be stored as machine readable instructions in the one or more memory modules . Alternatively or additionally road data can be stored on a removable data module . Specifically the removable data module can be coupled to the communication path via a socket with a movable member. The movable member can transition between states that apply varying amounts of force to the removable data module . Accordingly the removable data module can be optical media solid state flash memory e.g. USB or memory card or a combination thereof.

The vehicle navigation system can comprise network interface hardware for communicatively coupling the vehicle navigation system with a mobile device or a computer network. The network interface hardware can be coupled to the communication path such that the communication path communicatively couples the network interface hardware to other modules of the vehicle navigation system . The network interface hardware can be any device capable of transmitting and or receiving data via a wireless network. Accordingly the network interface hardware can include a communication transceiver for sending and or receiving data according to any wireless communication standard. For example the network interface hardware may include a chipset e.g. antenna processors machine readable instructions etc. to communicate over wireless computer networks such as for example wireless fidelity Wi Fi WiMax Bluetooth IrDA Wireless USB Z Wave ZigBee or the like.

As is noted above the vehicle navigation system can be communicatively coupled to a mobile device via the network interface hardware . As described in more detail below application data from various applications running on the mobile device may be provided from the mobile device to the vehicle navigation system via the network interface hardware. The mobile device can be any device having hardware e.g. chipsets processors memory etc. for communicatively coupling with the network interface hardware and a cellular network . Specifically the mobile device can include an antenna for communicating over one or more of the wireless computer networks described above. Moreover the mobile device can include a mobile antenna for communicating with the cellular network . Accordingly the mobile antenna can be configured to send and receive data according to a mobile telecommunication standard of any generation e.g. 1G 2G 3G 4G 5G etc. . Specific examples of a mobile device include but are not limited to smart phones tablet devices e readers laptop computers or the like.

The cellular network generally includes a plurality of base stations that are configured to receive and transmit data according to mobile telecommunication standards. The base stations are further configured to receive and transmit data over wired systems such as public switched telephone network PSTN and backhaul networks. The cellular network can further include any network accessible via the backhaul networks such as for example wide area networks metropolitan area networks the Internet satellite networks or the like. Thus the base stations generally include one or more antennas transceivers and processors that execute machine readable instructions to exchange data over various wired and or wireless networks.

Accordingly the cellular network can be utilized as a wireless access point by the mobile device to access one or more servers e.g. a first server and or a second server . The first server and second server generally include processors memory and chipset for delivering resources via the cellular network . Resources can include providing for example processing storage software and information from the first server and or the second server via the cellular network . Additionally it is noted that the first server or the second server can share resources with one another over the cellular network such as for example via the wired portion of the network the wireless portion of the network or combinations thereof.

The one or more servers may include third party servers that are associated with the applications that are running on the mobile device . For example application data associated with a first application running on the mobile device e.g. OpenTable may be stored on the first server that is operated by an organization that provides the first application and application data associated with a second application running on the mobile device e.g. Yelp may be stored on the second server that is operated by an organization that provides the second application. It should be understood that the mobile device may be communicatively coupled to any number of servers by way of the cellular network .

As described in more detail below one or more of the servers may be associated with an organization that manufactures or otherwise maintains the vehicle navigation system i.e. an intermediary server . For example the intermediary server may interface with the servers associated with the organizations that provide the applications as described above. Application data from the various applications may first be provided to the intermediary server e.g. for formatting or compliance verification over one or more networks of the cellular network and then provided to the mobile device .

Referring now to an exemplary map presented by the display of the vehicle navigation system is schematically illustrated. The map may display various roads associated with the geographic location within the proximity of the vehicle navigation system . The size of the area displayed on the map i.e. the scale may be user selectable. The geographic information displayed by the map is based at least in part on information provided by the satellite module .

The exemplary map includes a first road that intersects with a second road . The satellite module provides a geographic location of the vehicle navigation system and associated vehicle which is then displayed on the map by an icon . It should be understood that embodiments described and illustrated herein are not limited to any icon format or style and that any type of icon may be used to depict the various information described herein. The user may have selected a destination via any one of the aforementioned input devices such that that a route is highlighted on the map in embodiments that are configured to provide directions to a user selected destination.

The exemplary map further includes a user interface that is defined by various soft keys positioned within the display . The soft keys may be actuated via a touch screen on the display and or by the tactile input hardware and or the peripheral tactile input . The soft keys may provide for the selection of any number of options or information. In the illustrated embodiment the soft keys on the present screen of the user interface provided on the display are configured as a zoom out button that allows the user to zoom out and increase the geographical range that is displayed on the map a Destination button that generates a user interface that allows the user to select one or more destinations a Map Options button that allows the user to change various parameters of the map as described in more detail below and a zoom in button that allows the user to zoom in and decrease the geographical range that is displayed on the map .

Also provided in the user interface of the exemplary map are additional informational regions and buttons. Informational region displays a direction that the vehicle is currently traveling as detected by the satellite module informational region displays information relating to the scale of the map and the source of the geographic information and button may be selected by the user to toggle traffic information on and off within the display .

As described above the vehicle navigation system is configured to communicate with the mobile device to receive application data from various applications that are stored or are otherwise running on the mobile device . Generally the application data may be indicative of one or more entities and the geographic location of those one or more entities. Vehicle navigation systems described herein receive the application data from the mobile device determine the geographic location of one or more entities and position an icon for each entity on the map at a position that corresponds with the geographic location.

In the example depicted in three applications running on the mobile device have provided application data to the vehicle navigation system wherein the application data of each application corresponds to one entity. A first application has provided application data corresponding to a first entity that is represented by a first icon a second application has provided application data corresponding to a second entity that is represented by a second icon and a third application has provided application data corresponding to a third entity that is represented by a third icon . As an example and not a limitation the first application may be Yelp and the first icon may represent a pharmacy that is in close proximity to the vehicle. The second application may be OpenTable and the second icon may represent a close by restaurant and the third application may be Gas Buddy and the third icon may represent a close by gas station.

The icons are presented in the map according to their geographic location that is provided in the associated application data. For example the application data for each entity may include the physical address and or GPS coordinates of the entity so that the vehicle navigation system may present the icons representing entities at the proper location on the map .

Although each application is only providing application data for a single entity in it should be understood that each application may send application data that represents many individual entities. As an example and not a limitation the Gas Buddy application may send application data that corresponds to any number close by gas stations and OpenTable may send application data that corresponds to any number of close by restaurants.

It should be understood that the icons depicted in and are generic. The icons may take on any size shape or color. In some embodiments the icon configuration may represent the icon that is associated with the particular application.

The application data may be formatted either by the third party that is associated with the application an application programming interface API on the mobile device or the navigation system such that it is properly displayed on the display . For example the icon size should be such that the location of the associated entity may be properly discerned by the user. If the icon is too large it may take up too much space on the display and it may be difficult for the user to determine the actual location of the entity represented by the icon. The size of the icon may also depend on the size and or resolution of the display .

In some embodiments an API runs on the mobile device and provides the formatted application data received from the various applications to the vehicle navigation system . Thus the API is in communication with the various applications running on the mobile device . In other embodiments the third party application providers may provide the application data in a proper format for display on the vehicle navigation system directly to the applications running on the mobile device . The vehicle navigation system may then receive this formatted application data directly from the applications. For example the user may register his or her applications with the various third party application providers so that the third party application providers then send the application data to the mobile device in a proper format for display on the display of the vehicle navigation system . In still other embodiments the vehicle navigation system may receive the application data directed from the applications on the mobile device and then format the data for display on the display of the vehicle navigation system .

Referring now to in one embodiment the user may select an icon that is displayed on the map to receive more information regarding the entity that was provided by the application associated with the icon . In the illustrated embodiment the user has selected by a user input the second icon associated with the second application running on the mobile device by any one of the above described input devices. Shape represents a user selection of the second icon e.g. by touching a touch screen enabled display surface . Returning to the above described nonlimiting example the second icon may represent a restaurant as determined by OpenTable. Selection of the OpenTable icon causes the vehicle navigation system to display information regarding the restaurant associated with the OpenTable icon . In the illustrated example the name of the restaurant is displayed in an informational bar of an entity information display at the top of the display . It should be understood that embodiments are not limited to location and format of the display of the information associated with the entity.

The entity information display may further include a more information button that causes the display to provide additional information regarding the entity corresponding to the application data associated with the entity which is described below with respect to . Selection of an icon may also cause the display of additional soft key buttons such as the Mark button which marks the entity associate with the icon for future information retrieval.

Embodiments may also provide for the display of additional more detailed information regarding the entity of the selected icon. As an example user selection of the more information button or similar button may cause the additional detailed information regarding the entity to be display on the display of the vehicle navigation system . An example of the displayed of the additional detailed information regarding the restaurant associated with OpenTable icon is schematically depicted in . The additional detailed information of the illustrated embodiment is provided in a detailed information window positioned on the map . It should be understood that the additional detailed information may be displayed in other formats and configurations such as on a dedicated screen a different location on the map etc.

The detailed information may include but is not limited to the name of the entity in the present example Ma and Pa s Italian Eatery and Shop the physical address of the entity and a telephone number associated with the entity. Additional information may also be provided such as a website address an e mail address an average rating e.g. 4 5 stars and any other information that may be useful regarding the particular entity.

In some embodiments the display may present a call button that a user may select to call the particular entity. In other embodiments the user may call the entity by selecting the telephone number if the telephone number comprises active text that causes the phone functionality of the mobile device to call the phone number provided in the active text.

The screen depicted in further includes a button e.g. Go button that sets the physical address of the entity associated with the selected icon as a destination within the vehicle navigation system . The vehicle navigation system may then provide direction to the entity. The display may also present a Back button to return the user to the previous screen e.g. the screen represented in .

The Map Options button see causes the vehicle navigation system to display a map options user interface wherein the user may set various parameters associated with the vehicle navigation system . The exemplary map options user interface depicts a plurality of generic Options buttons that are associated with a plurality of parameters. For example one or more of the Options buttons may dictate how the map is presented such as by a map only display without additional information a dual map that may provide two maps on the display the display of a turn list and the like. The Options buttons may also allow a user to select points of interest set a speed limit set traffic reporting options etc.

Option button provides options relating to the display of the application data provided by the mobile device . Selection of Option button may cause the vehicle navigation system to display an application icon options screen on the display . depicts an exemplary application icon options screen according to one embodiment. Generally the application icon options screen depicted in allows a user to select which applications he or she wishes to provide icons and information to the display and which applications he or she wishes to filter out. The application icon options screen comprises a list of applications that lists compatible application names of applications that are compatible with the vehicle navigation system . Each compatible application name has a check box or other selection feature that allows the user to select or deselect the particular compatible application. The list of applications may further include a scrollbar if the number of compatible applications is greater than what may be presented on the display . User may scroll the bar to navigate the list of applications or use an up arrow or the down arrow . The list of applications may also be navigated by gestures such as flicking the list using his or her finger on a touch screen of the display .

In the illustrated example the user has selected Facebook Weather Yelp OpenTable and National Geographic National Parks applications and deselected the Twitter application. Accordingly the vehicle navigation system may display application data associated with only those applications that are selected by the user. It is noted that some applications may not have geographic location information associated with a physical address or location such as the Weather and Twitter applications. The icons and or application data associated with these applications or other applications where the application data does not include a physical address or location may be presented at one or more regions of the display e.g. one or more corners of the display .

Referring now to a flow chart of how applications running on the mobile device are detected and filtered for display on the vehicle navigation system according to one embodiment is depicted. At block the vehicle navigation system may receive stored applications data from the mobile device . The stored application data represents the names of the compatible applications that are running on the mobile device . In one embodiment the stored applications data is stored in a file on the mobile device . In another embodiment the stored applications data is stored on a remote server that is accessed by the mobile device and or the vehicle navigation system . The stored applications data may be periodically updated as the user adds and removes applications from his or her mobile device .

Once the vehicle navigation system is aware of which compatible applications are running on the mobile device the vehicle navigation system may display the list of applications at block . For example the list of applications may be configured as the list of applications depicted in wherein the user may select or deselect various compatible applications. At block the vehicle navigation system receives application selection input that corresponds with the applications that the user desires to have information displayed on the vehicle navigation system . At block the vehicle navigation system receives formatted application data that is in a format that is compatible with the display vehicle navigation system . As stated above in some embodiments an API running on the mobile device may format that application data or the applications may format the application data directed e.g. the third party servers of the various applications may provide the formatted application data . However in other embodiments the vehicle navigation system may format the application data for presentation on the display .

At block the vehicle navigation system displays the icons corresponding to the application data of the various selected applications as the vehicle travels. As the vehicle travels down the road the icons will change as only those icons representing entities in close proximity to the vehicle may be displayed.

It should now be understood that embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to vehicle navigation systems and methods wherein applications running on a mobile device provide application data to the vehicle navigation system. More specifically icons representing entities associated to the application data are displayed at locations on a map corresponding to a physical address or location of the entities. As an example and not a limitation an application running on a mobile device that is communicatively coupled to the navigation system may be programmed to provide information regarding restaurants other other businesses organizations etc. that are in proximity to a present location. Application data regarding the restaurants may be provided by the application to the vehicle navigation system such that icons are displayed on the map of the vehicle navigation system at the proper locations that correspond to the physical addresses of the nearby restaurants. In this manner icons associated with entities provided by applications running on a mobile device may be populated onto a map of a vehicle navigation system.

While particular embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be understood that various other changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the claimed subject matter. Moreover although various aspects of the claimed subject matter have been described herein such aspects need not be utilized in combination. It is therefore intended that the appended claims cover all such changes and modifications that are within the scope of the claimed subject matter.

