---

title: System and method for user defined markets for electronic trading
abstract: A system and method for user defined markets for electronic trading is disclosed. In one embodiment, a technology platform is provided that allows a user to define a new market for electronic trading and automatically generate the new market for live trading. In one embodiment, the new market is automatically tested using a trading simulator that simulates the new market for electronic trading.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09412133&OS=09412133&RS=09412133
owner: MarketFactory, Inc.
number: 09412133
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140703
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 288 339 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR USER DEFINED MARKETS FOR ELECTRONIC TRADING filed Oct. 17 2008 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 980 527 entitled UNIVERSAL TRADING PLATFORM WITH USER DEFINED MARKETS filed Oct. 17 2007 which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Trading technology platforms exist for trading in existing markets. For example trading platforms exist for trading on security exchanges such as NASDAQ.

The invention can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process an apparatus a system a composition of matter a computer program product embodied on a computer readable storage medium and or a processor such as a processor configured to execute instructions stored on and or provided by a memory coupled to the processor. In this specification these implementations or any other form that the invention may take may be referred to as techniques. In general the order of the steps of disclosed processes may be altered within the scope of the invention. Unless stated otherwise a component such as a processor or a memory described as being configured to perform a task may be implemented as a general component that is temporarily configured to perform the task at a given time or a specific component that is manufactured to perform the task. As used herein the term processor refers to one or more devices circuits and or processing cores configured to process data such as computer program instructions.

A detailed description of one or more embodiments of the invention is provided below along with accompanying figures that illustrate the principles of the invention. The invention is described in connection with such embodiments but the invention is not limited to any embodiment. The scope of the invention is limited only by the claims and the invention encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. Numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. These details are provided for the purpose of example and the invention may be practiced according to the claims without some or all of these specific details. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the invention has not been described in detail so that the invention is not unnecessarily obscured.

While existing trading technology platforms e.g. for financial trading instruments such as precious metals fixed income commodities and or other verticals and instrument classes allow for electronic trading of new currency exchanges commodity exchanges equity security exchanges and or various other financial instrument exchanges there is a need for a system and method for a universal trading platform that provides for the creation automated testing and trading of user defined markets. For example a newly defined market e.g. a market for electronic trading of a newly defined financial instrument for electronic trading such as a new real estate derivative often is substantially different from existing markets financial instruments such that the use of existing trading technology platforms is inefficient and delays the creation and trading of the new market e.g. migrating a hard coded platform which generally is based on an initial platform that was implemented with the single purpose of trading an already existing instrument structure or class according to narrowly defined requirements typically involves adapting and implementing new programmed functionality and configuration settings and can often require up to one year or more to adapt to and then test for use in the newly defined market and as a result is also very expensive as such requires technical and programming development by skilled programmers .

What is needed is a system and method for a universal trading platform for user defined markets. For example a trading technology platform that efficiently and easily allows a user to define a new market for electronic trading e.g. specifying a new financial instrument and the associated rules for electronic trading of the new financial instrument and the automated testing using simulated trading in the new market e.g. prior to live trading is needed.

In one embodiment systems and methods disclosed herein provide a platform for electronic trading of any newly defined financial instrument. For example a rule based and data driven platform is disclosed that allows a user to define a new market e.g. creating a new financial instrument for trading including for example a basic structure of the instrument trading units price granularity matching rules etc. and automatically tests and provides a universal trading platform for the new market. In one embodiment systems and methods disclosed herein provide a web based platform and service for creating new markets and moreover provide for the use of social networking to promote newly created markets. In one embodiment before implementing the electronic trading exchange platform for a newly defined market which typically involves coordination and approvals with various clearinghouses automated testing is provided using a simulated market with automated trading e.g. using automated trading bots also referred to herein as trader simulators based on various trading profiles and other criteria e.g. specified events that simulate realistic and dynamic market trading to simulate the new market using market based parameters with volatility volume etc. . For example use of trader simulators to simulate the new market that is trading on the new electronic trading exchange for that new market is superior to approaches that would rely on historical market data which incorrectly assumes for example that a given trader s trading activities have no dynamic impact on the market.

The embodiments disclosed herein also facilitate the creation of a new market by allowing for a universe of users who are interested in trading a new financial instrument and thus this community of users e.g. for a new real estate derivatives market can help create the new market and define their desired trading rules e.g. by the market creator and or other authorized users which increases the likelihood that the new market will be liquid as users will more likely use the newly defined created market compared to a trading exchange setting up a new market and hoping that users will use it and that they will set it up with rules settings that are acceptable to the potential target users. For example if there is a problematic or disfavored aspect in the initial definition of the market and or its associated trading rules e.g. users want five levels of depth transparency instead of three levels of depth transparency then the market creator and or its authorized users e.g. users with market configuration settings authority privileges can dynamically and easily change that setting e.g. such trading rule problems may also be detected during the automated testing using trader simulators which allows the market creator to modify such trading rules before opening the new market for live trading .

New market service provider server executes new market creation platform . New market creation platform stores the new market configuration and related content in platform storage . In one embodiment new market creation platform provides a platform that allows a user to define a new market for a new class of financial instruments for trading electronically including the associated trading and access rules. In one embodiment new market creation platform also provides for automated testing of the new market using automated trading bots for dynamically testing the new market through a market simulation of trading in the new market e.g. prior to opening the new market for live trading .

Computer executes trading client application which allows a user to electronically trade in the new market. As shown computer also includes user input and display for output . As shown trading client application communicates via Internet with new market creation platform . In one embodiment a user of the method and system of the present invention such as the system embodiment shown in refers to any individual person or any entity and or any group or department within an entity e.g. an Information Technology IT department of a company who defines develops test modifies trades in and or manages markets using method and system embodiments of the present invention.

In one embodiment web client is included in and or executed in computer as one or more of the following a web browser plug in or applet an application program a background software process an embedded function of a web browser or an embedded function of an operating system. In one embodiment trading client application is included in and or executed in computer as one or more of the following a web browser plug in or applet an application program a background software process an embedded function of a web browser or an embedded function of an operating system. In one embodiment new market creation platform is included in and or executed in new market service provider server as one or more of the following a component of an electronic exchange trading platform a web application server or an executable computer program.

One or more of the components and or interactions between components may be optional and additional components not shown in may be included. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that computer may be any computing device capable of communicating with Internet and executing web client including for example a general purpose computer e.g. a PC or laptop executing a general purpose operating system such as Microsoft Apple Linux and or Unix operating systems a PDA or smart phone device or any other device capable of executing applications and communicating with the Internet . Similarly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that computer may be any computing device capable of communicating with the Internet and executing trading client application including for example a general purpose computer e.g. a PC or laptop executing a general purpose operating system such as Microsoft Apple Linux and or Unix operating systems a PDA or smart phone device or any other device capable of executing applications and communicating with the Internet . Those of ordinary skill in the art will also recognize that new market creation platform server may be one or more computers or other computing devices in communication with Internet and platform storage .

As shown in a New Market Service Provider has authority for granting various access rights privileges and or roles to a market participant that will then be a market creator a trader and or an institution e.g. an institution can include Market Creators Traders as well as other defined roles such as Representative and Administrator as also discussed above . New Market Service Provider also has authority to grant institutional access rights as well as specified roles for institutions such as for Institution and Institution . As shown Institution includes a Representative an Administrator e.g. one or more Administrators can be authorized for the institution a Market Creator e.g. one or more Market Creators can be authorized for the institution and multiple Traders . As shown Institution includes multiple Traders . As also shown in New Market Service Provider has granted market creation rights to Market Creator and trading rights to multiple Individual Traders .

In one embodiment New Market Service Provider authorizes each institution to create new markets of specific types trade in new markets of specific types and allows a specified Representative of each institution to authorize members of the institution for market creation or trading within the authorization limits imposed by New Market Service Provider . An institution s Representative can appoint one or more Administrators and can also appoint himself herself as an Administrator . Administrators generally act on behalf of the Representative. An Administrator s privileges may also be limited to specific functions e.g. credit administration specific market types and or specific markets. Institution Administrator s appoint Market Creators and can also restrict their entitlements to creation of markets of specific types. Institution Administrator s appoint Traders and can also restrict their trading access to specific markets. An Institution Market Creator can define markets where the access is limited to specific Traders of his her institution e.g. market access is controlled by both the Administrator and Market Creator . New Market Service Provider authorizes each Market Creator to create markets of specific types. Institution Market Creator may define markets where the access is limited to specific individual Traders specific institutions and or specific Traders of his institution. In one embodiment a Market Creator cannot define market access to his her markets for specific Traders of another institution. New Market Service Provider authorizes each Individual Trader to trade in markets of specific types.

In one embodiment Market Creation Wizard users will be provided with default templates for common instruments and their underlying commodities to assist in the specification of sub markets. Additionally Market Creation Wizard users can create their own instrument and commodity templates for defining sub markets. Market Creation Wizard users can also define market level templates that provide consistent defaults e.g. Market Making Access Market Data Access Price Transparency etc. for each newly created sub market.

Order Data database stores all orders cancellations and done deals. Market Data database stores historical market data.

User Data database stores details of user status entitlements and institutional identifiers including for example the following user ID user entitlements user profile user credentials password and user parent institution if any .

As shown also illustrates various components for a system for a user defined market for electronic trading in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. For example Market Director determines which Market Processor owns which market. Market Director also maintains and provides component direction to Order Switches .

Market Processor maintains current bid and offer lists. Market Processor also processes simple match orders e.g. bid offer buy sell . Order Switch implements communications with each Trading Client s . Order Switch also provides for example the following functions compound order processing intelligent order processing keystroke logging accept and log all orders e.g. including I O implement persistent orders implement deal completion implement message protocol implement FIX Financial Information eXchange protocol see http www.fixprotocol.org and other industry standard protocols for specific markets implement STP Straight Through Processing which refers to transaction hand off between trading applications e.g. front office applications to position keeping and accounting applications servers e.g. back office applications e.g. STP can be implemented using FIX or other known messaging protocols update Order Database distribute market data to all connected clients and implement SSS Synchronous Spooling Services .

Data Distributor receives logs and processes all market messages from Market Processors for specific markets and also distributes market data to all subscribers e.g. Order Switches Web Servers and Market Data database .

Web Server in communication with PHP script serves all static web contents e.g. web pages to each Web Client implements interfaces with back end components implements interfaces with databases and provides user authentication.

Web Client displays static web contents web pages blogs and social networking tools displays market lists displays market data for the general public launches Trading Client launches Market Creation and Admin Client and allows user to sign in.

Trading Client provides the following functions application configuration market data display order entry deal blotter and position keeping. In one embodiment a trading message level interface provides the same functions for Trading Client through a message level interface implemented in a market type specific industry standard protocol market type permitting . In one embodiment a trading API Application Programming Interface provides the same functions for Trading Client through an API implemented in ActionScript Java or C . In one embodiment an STP message level interface provides deal notifications in real time and provides deal history on demand. For example an STP API provides the same functions for STP through an application programming interface implemented in ActionScript Java or C .

Market Creation and Admin Client provides the following functions a Market Creation Wizard market maintenance and Institution Admin functions. A billing system not shown maintains all data that is used for billing and also maintains statistical data regarding client behavior. In one embodiment the billing system is implemented as part of Market Creation and Admin Server and Market Creation and Admin Client .

In one embodiment messages communicated between these various components include the following types of messages. Messages transmitted between Order Switch and Trading Client include market data e.g. transmitted using a broadcast or multicast protocol market configuration parameters order entry response e.g. high priority data log messages e.g. activity order history etc. user events e.g. keystrokes etc. event notifications and reports e.g. low priority historical data reports . Messages transmitted between Market Processor and Order Switch include orders and order confirmations and complex order synchronization e.g. involving multiple markets . Messages between Market Creation and Admin Server and Market Creation and Admin Client include market definitions storage and retrieval and market processor control functions. Messages transmitted between Market Processor and Data Distributor include detailed market data sufficient to maintain the market book and produce dealt prices. All orders cancellations and deals are transmitted including counterparty and trader IDs and market configuration details such as credit matrix and or credit limits are transmitted. Messages transmitted between Market Director and Market Processor include market assignment e.g. Market Director informs Market Processor which markets it is executing and market control e.g. Market Director instructs Market Processor to start stop the market . Messages transmitted between Market Director and Order Switch include market processor address discovery. Messages transmitted between Market Director and Data Distributor include market processor address discovery.

In one embodiment the Market Creation and Admin Server and Market Creation and Admin Client allow users with market creator access rights to subsequently after it has already been created change parameters and or specifications of the market e.g. instrument class specifications associated trading rules and access rights and privileges . In one embodiment the platform authenticates the identity of each user of the system. The Market Creation and Admin Server and Market Creation and Admin Client also can provide reports for users including for Market Creators market participants and the new market platform service provider.

In one embodiment a trader simulator is software executable on a computer e.g. a server for providing an automated trading simulation e.g. a simulated trading model for simulating live trading in a market by live traders and or model traders . For example a trader simulator can simulate tens or hundreds of trading clients in which the simulator can simulate live traders or model traders or both. As shown in Trader Simulator is in communication with Order Switches . In one embodiment Trader Simulator is implemented as a computer process executing on a server which establishes multiple communications connections to one or more Order Switches . In one embodiment the simulator uses Monte Carlo random number techniques with controllable probability distributions to generate trading actions matching the desired activity profile e.g. human trader black box traders cautious trader market maker etc. .

In one embodiment a market simulator will allow the market creator to test the new market that he she has created by simulating the activity of the expected market participants actively and dynamically trading in the new market and or to also allow a small group of live traders to test the new market prior to permitting live trading in the new market . For example the following components of a simulated market behavior can be defined types of simulated market participants e.g. market makers and market takers mix of simulated participants behavior of simulated market participants e.g. liquidity provided and trading strategy and daily trading patterns e.g. special event simulation .

For example different types of simulated market participants can also be specified for simulated testing of the new market. In one embodiment a platform for a user defined market for electronic trading implements different types of simulated market participants as trader simulators as discussed above. As shown in at stage the market creator specifies trading personas that will be simulated such as the following basic types of persona market maker only market taker only and market maker and taker. Different trading strategies are automatically and or can be specifically assigned to each basic persona type can depend upon the order types defined for the new market. A market maker can for example submit limit orders at prices based upon an outside market submit limit orders at market prices submit limit orders at market prices a configurable number of pips away from the market and submit limit orders at market prices at multiple pip levels away from the market. For example a market taker can submit an IOC order at the market submit limit orders that match prices on the opposite side of the market arbitrage between three currency pairs using either of the two preceding order strategies and use a trend following strategy. Each persona can be assigned a set of sub markets to trade. Each sub market can also be assigned a level of activity or focus. Each persona can additionally be assigned an activity profile that spans the 24 hours of the day. For example a Tokyo based market maker may submit more liquidity during the Tokyo trading day while a New York market taker may only operate during the New York trading day. In one embodiment personas are stored as templates for simulation of future new markets. At stage the market creator specifies how many of each persona he she wants to simulate trading in the test market. At stage the market creator optionally overrides the trading personas activity levels with master liquidity and volatility controls that affect all simulated market participants in the simulation. At stage the market creator optionally specifies special events that affect the behavior of the participants e.g. release of government statistics at an expected time breaking news that occurs at an unexpected time etc. . In one embodiment of a platform for a user defined market for electronic trading different personas will behave differently in response to these special events depending on their trading strategy.

Although the foregoing embodiments have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity of understanding the invention is not limited to the details provided. There are many alternative ways of implementing the invention. The disclosed embodiments are illustrative and not restrictive.

