---

title: Security monitoring and control
abstract: Systems, methods, and software for monitoring and controlling a security system for a structure are provided herein. An exemplary method may include receiving sensor data from at least one first peripheral, the sensor data associated with at least one of activity inside and activity outside of a structure; determining a critical event based in part on the sensor data; creating an alert based in part on the critical event; getting user preferences associated with at least one of a user and a base unit; determining a response based in part on the alert and user preferences; and activating at least one of a second peripheral and a service based in part on the response.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09633547&OS=09633547&RS=09633547
owner: Ooma, Inc.
number: 09633547
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140520
---
The present technology pertains to monitoring and control and more specifically to security monitoring and control for a structure.

Commercial and residential security systems detect intrusions and fire to prevent intruder and property damage. Present security systems suffer from false alarms and high monitoring costs. False alarms prevent first responders from being available to handle other in progress or more urgent calls for service. In addition first responders may levy fines for false alarms. Companies offer services to remotely monitor security systems. Some companies have trained staff to monitor their customers security systems and call the appropriate authorities in the event an alarm signal is received. However the cost and quality of these services vary by the provider and can be beyond the reach of many families and organizations.

In one embodiment the present technology is directed to a method for security monitoring and control. The method may include receiving sensor data from at least one first peripheral the sensor data associated with at least one of activity inside and activity outside of a structure determining a critical event based in part on the sensor data creating an alert based in part on the critical event getting user preferences associated with at least one of a user and a base unit determining a response based in part on the alert and user preferences and activating at least one of a second peripheral and a service based in part on the response.

In one embodiment the present technology is directed to a base unit. The base unit may include a processor and a memory coupled to the processor the memory storing instructions executable by the processor to perform a method for security monitoring and control including receiving sensor data from at least one first peripheral the sensor data associated with at least one of activity inside and activity outside of a structure determining a critical event based in part on the sensor data creating an alert based in part on the critical event getting user preferences associated with at least one of a user and a base unit determining a response based in part on the alert and user preferences and activating at least one of a second peripheral and a service based in part on the response.

In one embodiment the present technology is directed to a non transitory computer readable storage medium having embodied thereon a program the program being executable by a processor to perform a method for security monitoring and control. The method may include receiving sensor data from at least one first peripheral the sensor data associated with at least one of activity inside and activity outside of a structure determining a critical event based in part on the sensor data creating an alert based in part on the critical event getting user preferences associated with at least one of a user and a base unit determining a response based in part on the alert and user preferences and activating at least one of a second peripheral and a service based in part on the response.

While this technology is susceptible of embodiment in many different forms there is shown in the drawings and will herein be described in detail several specific embodiments with the understanding that the present disclosure is to be considered as an exemplification of the principles of the technology and is not intended to limit the technology to the embodiments illustrated. The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the technology. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. It will be understood that like or analogous elements and or components referred to herein may be identified throughout the drawings with like reference characters. It will be further understood that several of the figures are merely schematic representations of the present technology. As such some of the components may have been distorted from their actual scale for pictorial clarity.

According to various embodiments of the present invention a base unit communicatively coupled to the Internet communicates with peripherals in and or near a structure for example using wired and or wireless communications. The peripherals may detect sense conditions such as motion glass breakage smoke heat flooding and the like. The peripherals may communicate the detected sensed conditions to the base unit over any of several wired and or wireless communications and or networking mechanisms. The base unit may communicate the detected sensed conditions over the Internet to a server. The base unit may also communicate with a web client or other client or software application on a computing device e.g. PC tablet computer smart phone etc. .

A user operating the computing device may monitor and respond to detected sensed conditions in and or near the structure. Additionally or alternatively the base unit may communicate with the computing device. In some embodiments the base unit may automatically and or in response to at least one of instructions from a user and or inputs from peripherals control a peripheral and or service. By way of example the base unit may perform at least one of activate an internal or external siren control lighting e.g. flash turn on and turn off activate audible and or visual alarm in a smoke detector launch a personal surveillance drone lock and or unlock door move window coverings e.g. open close and trim post on social media and the like.

Computing device include at least one of a personal computer PC hand held computing system telephone mobile computing system workstation tablet phablet wearable mobile phone server minicomputer mainframe computer or any other computing system. Computing device is described further in relation to computing system in .

In some embodiments computing device may include a web browser or similar software application for communicating with base unit and or server . For example computing device is a PC running a web browser inside or outside a commercial or residential structure. Additionally or alternatively computing device is a smart phone running a client or other software application .

In various embodiments computing device is used for telecommunications. For example the user from his web or smartphone client upon determining that the intruder alert is valid could initiate a 911 call as if it were originating from the structure rather than from the user s smartphone client. Normally a 911 call from a cell phone is directed to a public safety access point PSAP associated with the geographical location of the cell phone. For a user at a remote location who is alerted that his house is being invaded dialing 911 from his cell phone could normally result in significant delay as he explains the situation to the PSAP serving the physical location of his smartphone rather than that of the house that has been invaded then waits for his call to be transferred to a PSAP in the area of his home and then takes the time to communicate the location of the house that is being invaded which may even be in another state and convinces the authorities to go to the invaded house.

In contrast since base unit may also provide VoIP service for the home base unit may already be provisioned to have its phone number associated with the appropriate physical address of the house according to some embodiments. For example the user operating his web or smartphone based client may initiate a 911 call as if it were originating from the invaded house. The call is directly connect to the PSAP that is local to the invaded house with the proper address electronically passed to the PSAP as if the call had originated from the invaded house bypassing the delays inherent in the prior art. Such 911 calls from a location remote from the structure and or spoofing the address presented to the PSAP e.g. by provisioning the structure s address to the 911 service provider may be used for other alert situations in the structure e.g. smoke detector triggers swimming pool monitor triggers etc. .

In various embodiments computing device presents information received from base unit and or server graphically and or textually to at least one user not shown in . The user may for example set up preferences review sensor information e.g. alarms in real time control peripherals review logs and the like using a web browser client or other software application.

Base unit are disposed within or near to a commercial or residential structure e.g. office building house townhouse condominium apartment recreational vehicle aircraft yacht and the like not shown in to be monitored and controlled. Base unit controls and or receives data from peripherals not shown in disposed in and about the commercial or residential structure. The peripherals are described further in relation to .

Emergency service includes one or more of private security e.g. security guard law enforcement e.g. police sheriff etc. fire e.g. fire and rescue service emergency medical service e.g. ambulance and the like. In some embodiments communication with emergency service is through a public safety answering point PSAP sometimes called public safety access point. A PSAP is a call center responsible for answering calls to an emergency telephone number for police firefighting ambulance services etc. Telephone operators at the PSAP may be responsible for dispatching emergency service .

Communications are wired and or wireless communications and combinations thereof which communicatively couple computing device base unit and server to each other and to network . For example communications may be at least one of plain old telephone service POTS cellular mobile network e.g. 1G 2G 3G and 4G and other voice communications network dial up digital subscriber line DSL cable internet power line internet WiFi e.g. IEEE 802.11 Bluetooth Bluetooth low energy BLE WiMAX e.g. IEEE 802.16 satellite broadband mobile broadband e.g. 2G 3G and 4G and other broadband access. Although a single line is used to depict communications there may be multiple computing devices base units emergency services and servers each of which may use different combinations of the wired and or wireless communications described above.

Network is a system of interconnected computer networks such as the Internet. Additionally or alternatively network may be a private network such as home office and enterprise local area networks LANs .

Server includes one or more systems e.g. software and computer hardware that respond to requests across network to provide or help to provide a network service. Services for example include at least one of Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP Enhanced 911 E911 Short Message Service SMS email social media posting e.g. Nextdoor Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram etc. user preferences notifications alarms and the like. In some embodiments at least one service function of server may be performed alternatively by or in combination with base unit . Server may be disposed in near or far away from the structure. Server is described further in relation to computing system in .

In some embodiments alerts for help in the event of an intruder detection of an unauthorized pool entrance fire flood or other emergency situation take new forms. Prior to the present technology a user dialing 911 was the most effective response to an emergency. In contrast in various embodiments the user via a web or smartphone based client on computing device may select from many more options for responding to an emergency quickly and conveniently. For example with the selection of a button in a graphical user interface of the smartphone client the web or smartphone client on computing device can originate a 911 call through server as if it came from the home location. By way of further example a pre programmed tweet can be posted to the user s account on Twitter and or to a Nextdoor neighborhood group e.g. something s happening at my home if you are nearby please check it out . By way of additional example an automated message could be posted on the user s Facebook wall or a Facebook wall shared by a neighborhood watch group. In an emergency situation quickly establishing broad awareness can be essential to successful resolution of the situation. Social networks make possible such broad notifications to crowd source home monitoring without the expense of professional monitoring services and or to augment the professional monitoring services.

In various embodiments when base unit and associated resources and services are activated the user may be given the option to be automatically added as a friend for a neighborhood watch Facebook page join a Nextdoor neighborhood group be added as a follower on a Twitter feed customized for her physical address and the like. Such pages posts and feeds may be automatically accessible through the web or smartphone based client on computing device for posting in the event of an emergency and advantageously provide neighbors and or the community around a structure with awareness of emergency events taking place nearby with a high degree of automation.

Moreover social networking along with coordination of the services and devices described herein make possible new capabilities for bonding communities together to enhance their collective security. In some embodiments when an intruder is detected based at least on his Bluetooth or cellular MAC address as described below the MAC address s may be communicated to other base units on network so that the movements of the intruder can be tracked. In various embodiments when an intruder is detected in one house all the other houses in the neighborhood who subscribe to the same service can be placed on a heightened state of readiness e.g. lock down . For example surveillance cameras on the house neighboring the house under attack are activated with the video being recorded. By way of further example exterior lights under control of systems in other houses that subscribe to the same system are automatically turned on. By way of additional example nearby homes are instructed to log any unusual Bluetooth fingerprints in case the intruder parked a vehicle a few doors down but in range of another subscriber s home. When the occupant of a house that is being invaded receives a notification on his smartphone for example a software application on computing device communicates that there has been suspicious activity in another house in the neighborhood thus increasing the probability that the occupant will not dismiss the alert as a false alarm. If an intrusion is detected in one home in the neighborhood for example then rather than just launching his own drone all the surveillance drones in the neighborhood launch to try to identify the intruder or begin performing a patrol circuit of their home building both for video surveillance and deterrence. Given the expense of UAVs a neighborhood as a whole may pool its resources so that a single UAV serves an entire block cul de sac and other grouping of residents.

Base unit is communicatively coupled to network using communications . Base unit includes at least one network interface for wired and or wireless communications. In some embodiments base unit includes at least one of an Ethernet adapter cable modem digital subscriber line DSL modem wireless modem cellular data connection and the like not shown in for communication with network over communications .

Base unit may also include numerous network interfaces and or modems radios internal or externally coupled to communicatively couple devices in environment . These may include but are not limited to interfaces for DECT WiFi GSM CDMA Bluetooth ZigBee and Zwave .

By way of example base unit may include a DECT modem radio which may communicate with a DECT device including handset . Integration of the DECT modem in base unit offers the advantage of higher quality audio because integration eliminates loss of audio fidelity associated with passing audio through a band limited Foreign Exchange Station FXS port to a separate DECT base device. Integration also offers the benefit of having fewer devices to manage and allows interaction with DECT devices for other purposes as detailed below.

By way of further example base unit includes Bluetooth modem . Bluetooth modem may be paired with and communicate with devices such as a Bluetooth equipped smartphone operated by the system user. In some embodiments telephone calls may be directed from the smartphone so as to ring the smartphone and or at least one DECT phone in or near the structure. In some embodiments DECT phone is associated with a telephone service provisioned to a home or business. Base unit is described further in relation to base unit in and computing system in .

In various embodiments smartphone and base unit are Bluetooth paired. Incoming calls for smartphone may be directed to base unit and provided to the FXS port and or DECT phone . Directing smartphone calls in this way has the advantage of a more comfortable telephone experience because DECT phone may have superior ergonomics relative to smartphone . Additionally incoming POTS and or VOIP telephone calls may be directed from base unit via Bluetooth to smartphone .

As another example of base unit including various network interfaces it may include microcell e.g. for CDMA LTE GSM etc. to provide short range mobile cellular service in and near the structure. Microcell offers the advantage of improving reception of mobile cellular signals for example when the structure is in an area where mobile cellular coverage is marginal. Microcell also offers the benefit of bypassing local mobile cellular service and using the base unit communication to network to backhaul calls originating from or terminating at smartphone . In this way base unit may provide higher quality communications to smartphone .

As another example of base unit including various interfaces it may include a WiFi modem radio e.g. IEEE 802.11 . In addition the structure may have a WiFi network which is accessible or delivered by base unit and which may be used to communicate with at least one of peripherals .

In some embodiments the various network interfaces radios modems may also serve as sensors. For example in the case of Bluetooth communication between base unit and an unpaired Bluetooth enabled device including a phone or headset is possible. Many people including intruders and other persons with nefarious objectives have Bluetooth enabled cell phones and or Bluetooth peripherals and many people leave their cell phone Bluetooth radios turned on and in discoverable mode all the time . For example such people may typically leave their Bluetooth enabled smartphones in discoverable mode so that when they enter their car their phones can automatically establish communication with the car s audio system. Though data sharing with the car audio system requires a personal identification number and going through the pairing process any cell phone with its Bluetooth turned on may be broadcasting information for which other Bluetooth devices can listen. In this way Bluetooth enabled cell phones may provide an electronic fingerprint. Similarly other Bluetooth enabled devices e.g. headset smart watch fitness device audio system of a car parked nearby and other computing devices e.g. tablet computer phablet notebook computer etc. in the car parked nearby may also provide an electronic fingerprint. 

In response to inputs from peripherals base unit may detect and record an electronic fingerprint associated with one or more unpaired Bluetooth enabled devices within its range. In this way base unit may record information in one embodiment a MAC address of one or more of an intruder s unpaired Bluetooth enabled device . By logging such MAC addresses the base unit may help identify an intruder s unpaired Bluetooth enabled device for example at the time of a break in. By further example base unit may be configured to record the fingerprint of any unknown device or any device seen at an unexpected time or even to respond in a programmatic way as discussed below. see also 

By logging electronic fingerprint s such MAC addresses the base unit may help identify an intruder s unpaired Bluetooth enabled device for example at the time of a break in. To aid an investigation authorities such as law enforcement may determine information such as a manufacturer of unpaired Bluetooth enabled device based on the detected electronic fingerprint s . After the intruder is apprehended authorities may match the detected electronic fingerprint and determined information to unpaired Bluetooth enabled device in the suspect s possession. Additionally or alternatively authorities can identify the specific owner of the unpaired Bluetooth enabled device based on the associated electronic fingerprint by contacting the cellular provider manufacturer etc. The utility of this technique may depend on at least the settings of unpaired Bluetooth enabled device selected by the intruder the manufacturer of the cell phone and the provider of the Bluetooth software.

In addition unpaired Bluetooth enabled device in discoverable mode may be vulnerable to a variety of exploits that can extract information such as a media access control MAC address. In some embodiments base unit may run software send a chunk of data send a sequence of commands and the like that takes advantage of a bug glitch or vulnerability in order to gain control of unpaired Bluetooth enabled device .

By way of further example the Bluetooth modem is configured such that base unit may gather a range of data about the intruder s unpaired Bluetooth enabled device referred to as Bluesnarfing and or take control of the intruder s unpaired Bluetooth enabled device referred to as Bluebugging . For example a user using a web or client on computing device is given the option to have the base unit collect the MAC address of the intruder s cell phone and or attempt to take control of the intruder s unpaired Bluetooth enabled device to perform at least one of determining its phone number downloading the intruder s address book and or other identifying information. Base unit may surreptitiously place a 911 call from the intruder s unpaired Bluetooth enabled device resulting in the intruder s unpaired Bluetooth enabled device leading authorities directly to him even after he leaves the structure.

Similarly Microcell may also identify cell phones within range to obtain electronic fingerprints from device for example at the time of an intrusion into the structure. Microcell may typically provide greater range and more certain connection with the intruder s cell phone than Bluetooth. Similar to Bluetooth Microcell may determine identifying information from the intruder s cell phone without creating a permanent or authorized connection.

Similarly WiFi radio may be used to obtain fingerprints from device for example at the time of an intrusion into the structure. WiFi radio may determine a MAC addresses associated with a computing device carried by the intruder that comes within range of WiFi radio .

Further in some embodiments base unit may log all MAC addresses it encounters from any source using any wireless protocol to which it has access using any of the internal network interfaces or modems .

In various embodiments a database is maintained by the Bluesnarfing process or alternately by cellular WiFi or other protocol device monitoring processes recording a date time MAC address device name manufacturer model etc. Event records may include an arrival time departure time and other passively collected activity information. One or more of device detected using such mechanisms may have additional data associated with them by a user. For example additional data may include one or more of a name group and notes. Groups for example include family friend nanny babysitter house sitter housekeeper gardener repair person and the like.

The above database may be monitored. For example events are generated based at least on default rules and or rules configured by the user. The events may also be recorded in the database and may be used to trigger notifications. Notifications for example are at least one of an email SMS text message automated telephone call and the like. Non limiting examples of events which trigger a notification include when a particular device appears e.g. child home from school when a device disappears e.g. child leaves for school teenager sneaks out of the house etc. when a device appears and disappears e.g. monitor the arrival departure and or length of stay of the housekeeper and when a previously unknown device appears when a non family group device appears disappears between 9 PM and 5 AM e.g. teenager entertains guests after curfew .

As would be readily appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the database and notification processes described herein can be performed by base unit and or on server . For example to prevent loss of information in the event that base unit is removed from the structure base unit may provide a log to server periodically as well as anytime a potentially triggering event occurs e.g. a glass break sensor or any of the other peripherals triggering an event .

Base unit is also communicatively coupled to at least one of peripherals using at least one of wired and wireless communications interfaces . By way of example and not limitation wireless communications may be one or more of Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications Ultra Low Energy DECT ULE e.g. according to the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI WiFi e.g. IEEE 802.11 cellular mobile network e.g. GSM CDMA etc. Bluetooth and or BLE e.g. according to the Bluetooth Special Interest Group ZigBee e.g. IEEE 802.15 and ZWave e.g. according to the Z Wave Alliance and the like.

As shown in base unit may have various combinations of wireless interfaces e.g. based on a diversity of interfaces of various devices found in the structure . DECT ULE provides excellent range operation in a licensed band and good energy efficiency for long battery life but unlike Bluetooth CDMA LTE and GSM DECT ULE may not typically found in cell phones and may have lower bandwidth than WiFi. ZWave is widely adopted in a range of devices. ZigBee is widely used in utility meters. As would be readily appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art specific wireless communications e.g. DECT ULE described in relation to various embodiments may be other wireless communications e.g. WiFi Bluetooth Bluetooth LE ZWave ZigBee etc. . In addition different protocols may be used each having associated performance characteristics. Some embodiments include base unit which supports all of the standards suggested by . Some cost effective embodiments include various subsets of all of the standards suggested by . For example base unit includes DECT ULE or WiFi as a backbone network to connect to devices that route to at least one short range standard e.g. ZWave ZigBee and Bluetooth . By way of further example base unit includes a DECT ULE modem and communicates with a plug in ZWave adapter disposed on or near a front door to take advantage of the wide range of ZWave enabled door locks.

ZWave includes a single Primary Controller and optionally additional Secondary Controllers. ZWave may also have any number of slave devices. The Primary Controller includes and or excludes slave nodes from the network so it is a node having guaranteed to have a complete ZWave routing table. In some embodiments a DECT ULE to ZWave bridge may be used to bridge DECT ULE to a ZWave Primary Controller since the ZWave Primary Controller preferably accesses all the slave devices. This may imply ZWave devices are added to the DECT ULE network piecemeal rather than allowing DECT ULE to tap into an existing network. As devices are included in a ZWave segment of the network the bridge develops a routing table e.g. according to the ZWave specification . Changes to the routing table e.g. from addition and or removal of ZWave nodes is reflected back to the main DECT ULE controller so that it may too have a complete topology for that segment and can integrate the complete topology into the overall topology of the combined DECT ULE and ZWave network in the structure.

In some embodiments the DECT ULE to ZWave bridge may be configured in at least two different ways depending at least on whether the system has knowledge of the ZWave controller node in the DECT ULE bridge or not. For example if the system or its software or APIs knows that the ZWave controller exists and is tightly coupled to the DECT ULE to ZWave bridge then the ZWave messages may be encapsulated. In other words a command or command string that would traditionally have been presented to the ZWave controller via a direct interface e.g. serial Universal Serial Bus USB I2C SPI etc. may be encapsulated in a datagram and set to the DECT ULE to ZWave bridge with an indication e.g. in the datagram or in the transfer mechanism of the encapsulation. The bridge may then act in a dumb manner and presents the command directly to the ZWave controller e.g. via Serial USB I2C SPI or other connection .

For example if the system or software is not aware of or wishes to disregard the bridging functionality then the DECT ULE to ZWave bridge may handle all of the translation. The DECT ULE to ZWave bridge may issue commands to the ZWave controller to retrieve at least one of the ZWave network topology the list of nodes devices and the capability of each node device. The DECT ULE to ZWave bridge may create pseudo devices within itself and notify the ULE master to update its directory. When an entity in the system wishes to communicate with a device on the ZWave bus the bridge may take the commands from the entity transcode from standard DECT ULE forms APIs into standard ZWave forms APIs and issue the appropriate commands to the ZWave controller.

The DECT ULE to ZWave bridge may handle routing translation between busses. The DECT ULE controller treats the ZWave segment nodes as multiple endpoints within the DECT ULE ZWave bridge node. Similarly any secondary controller may treat DECT ULE nodes for which it has been made aware as additional functional units within the bridge device.

ZWave messages may not necessarily be transmitted directly to a destination node but instead may pass through up to four routing nodes. ZWave nodes may not receive a message while sleeping e.g. to conserve battery power delivery time may be unbounded. The DECT ULE to ZWave bridge may run essentially asynchronously with only an immediate response to a message request being an indication of the destination s validity. Subsequently at least one of an ACK NACK and a TimeOut may be returned to the DECT ULE controller depending on the ZWave device s capabilities.

ZigBee may be said to resemble Zwave in that it is also a mesh network which may need a DECT ULE to ZigBee bridge to act as a primary controller for the ZigBee network of devices.

An potential issue with bridging to Bluetooth Low Energy BLE is encapsulating Generic Attribute Profile GATT attribute fragments into Internet Protocol IP packets and transferring them back to the DECT ULE master. The DECT ULE master may un encapsulates the GATT attribute fragments from the Internet Protocol IP packets and may pass each of the GATT attribute fragments to the engine as an event. The DECT ULE BLE bridge may track a segment topology and all of the paired nodes. The segment topology and all of the paired nodes may be presented as sub functions of the DECT ULE BLE bridge. The DECT ULE BLE bridge may optionally provide a generic BLE gateway to the Internet via encapsulation.

As would be readily appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art base unit providing such bridging capabilities is not limited to the protocols described in the example above but could be any pair of protocols either directly supported by the base unit or by an external device connected to base unit not shown in including as a way to bridge existing systems with protocols not yet defined by way of additional peripherals connected to to provide additional network connections and using the capabilities of to provide translation.

Wired and wireless communications as described herein may be used to efficiently monitor and control devices. For example base unit may use an ULE channel to monitor and control thousands of sensor and or actuators in addition to audio devices such as DECT phone .

DECT phone may be a portable unit such as a cordless telephone and optionally a base unit e.g. to charge the portable unit . DECT phone may originate and receive telephone calls for example using POTS VOIP and the like.

In some embodiments DECT phone also performs monitoring and or control functions. In typical operation an incoming call may cause DECT phone to ring. A microphone and speaker of DECT phone may be activated in response to a user pressing a button or similar input indicating that he wishes to answer the incoming call. In various embodiments when a remote user has been notified that there may be an intruder in the home the operation of DECT phone is modified. With the appropriate firmware for example DECT phone can be directed by the base unit to silently connect to base unit and activate its microphone leaving the speaker muted . For example a handset sitting on a table or otherwise innocuously disposed within the structure listens in on what is going on in the room without ringing or providing any other indication that it is active. By way of further example any or all of the handsets in the home are activated in this manner such that multiple locations in the structure are simultaneously monitored for any audible activity.

In some embodiments when an intruder has entered the home the user s web or smartphone based client on computing device is notified of the intrusion and the user can choose to signal the base to activate some or all of the handsets in the home to silently listen in on activity in the home. By monitoring the structure in this way the user may determine if the intruder alert is valid or a false alarm. From his smartphone the user may choose to listen in to handsets one by one or he may choose to listen to a mix performed by the base or server infrastructure of all of the handsets at once. The base or server infrastructure or client may record any or all of the audio streams coming from the activated handset s or other connected devices in the home such as a video door camera for example to provide evidence for use in an investigation and or against the intruder during legal proceedings such as a trial.

In some embodiments DECT phone is used to communicate with the intruder. For example after evaluating the state of the sensors in the home and perhaps listening in to the activity of the intruder through the silently activated DECT handsets the user can engage the intruder directly. In various embodiments of the invention the user may use his web or smartphone client on computing device to direct one or more of DECT phone to enter intercom mode which engages the speaker and microphone of any or all of the DECT phone in the structure to tell the intruder to Stop what you are doing. Leave the house This type of direct engagement may be more effective than calling the police or neighbor to investigate.

Some embodiments of the present invention include special custom firmware in DECT phone e.g. in base and or handset to enable DECT phone to activate silently enter listen in mode and change to intercom mode under the control of the remote client. As would be readily appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the operation described herein does not correspond to standard DECT behaviors. In fact present DECT handsets are activated individually. In contrast a network of DECT handsets ideally with speakerphones can all connect to the base simultaneously and engaging their speakerphones blare out a warning to the intruder to scare him off according to some embodiments. For example the warning is pre recorded and streamed from server . In some embodiments there is more than one message and each message is used in response to one or more specific sensed events. For example in response to an intruder being detected in the living room or smoke being detected in the kitchen Motion in living room or Smoke in the kitchen is respectively announced from all the handsets in the structure.

By way of further example when a handset is in this monitoring announcement mode and its firmware senses the handset is removed from the cradle or activated the announcement stops to allow a user to attempt to place a phone call e.g. to 911 . In some embodiments the software application on computing device e.g. smartphone client web client etc. is based on a Session Initiation Protocol SIP e.g. according to Internet Engineering Task Force IETF RFC 3261 platform. PJ SIP for example includes a signaling protocol SIP a multimedia framework and NAT traversal functionality into a high level multimedia communication application programming interface API . In some embodiments the SIP platform is directed by the software application to initiate a VoIP session using server . Server may direct base unit to open the intercom channel to DECT phones and the call is completed at any or all of DECT phone operating in intercom mode e.g. no action by the intruder is required for the call to be connected .

Sensor may include at least one of a motion sensor door window sensor glass breakage sensor flood sensor smoke detector heat sensor carbon monoxide sensor and the like.

Smoke and or carbon monoxide alarm sensors senses the atmosphere and sounds a siren when smoke and or carbon monoxide respectively are detected. In some embodiments these alarms are connected to the base through DECT ULE or other wireless communication . Such network connectivity enables several new modes of operation for these alarms. For example the function of the siren in the detector may be separately triggered e.g. under firmware control using DECT ULE signals which has the advantage of better coordination between multiple detectors in the structure. In response to detecting smoke in one room or zone rather than just a particular smoke detector sounding its siren the particular smoke detector communicates the triggering event to base unit . Base unit after optionally communicating with server to determine any user preferences may trigger some or all of the smoke and or carbon monoxide detectors in the structure. A fire in the kitchen downstairs for example immediately results in the siren sounding in the bedroom area upstairs.

In some embodiments at least some functions of the smoke or carbon monoxide alarm e.g. testing the smoke alarm disabling a false alarm etc. may be controlled by computing device e.g. smartphone . In various embodiments when an intruder s penetration of the structure is detected by peripherals and a remote user monitors the situation from his smartphone the remote user activates the blaring siren of all the detectors to sound throughout the structure absent any fire. Configuration and operation of the alarms in this manner offers the benefit of reinforcing the sound of a separate siren or the opportunity to eliminate the cost associated with a separate siren device which would otherwise be required to effect such an audible intruder alarm.

Active device includes at least one of an electrical switch siren speaker locking mechanism e.g. door handle lock dead bolt lock electromagnetic lock etc. light fixture and the like. These active devices can be controlled by base unit to programmatically respond to input from the user via computing device from various sensors or other events as discussed.

Camera may be one or more of a video camera and still image camera. For example camera maybe a closed circuit television CCTV camera. By way of further example camera may be an internet protocol camera IP camera . Camera may be disposed at any of a variety of locations inside and or outside the structure e.g. for viewing persons arriving at a front door . One or more of camera may be independently controlled e.g. by a user through computing device activated when UAV see below follows an intruder into an area covered by one of camera when a sensor detects activity near one of camera etc.

Hazard sensor is used to prevent injury or death in hazards associated with the structure. For example many pools hot tubs and other hazards are fitted with sensors that generate an alert in the event a child or pet falls into or otherwise obtains access to the pool hot tub and other hazard. Hazard sensor may include at least one of gate sensor e.g. detects when a gate providing access to the hazard is opened motion sensor in the pool area and sensor which detects disruption to the water surface.

Unmanned aerial vehicle UAV may be a quadcopter or other drone. UAV may include an electronic control system and electronic sensors to stabilize the aircraft. UAV may also include one or more sensors such as a video camera. UAV may be operated inside and or outside the structure. In some embodiments UAV is a terrestrial and or aquatic vehicle such as an unmanned ground vehicle UGV autonomous surface vehicles ASV autonomous underwater vehicle AUV and the like.

For example when hazard sensor detects an unsafe condition for example the surface of a pool or hot tub being disturbed perhaps by a child entering or a sensor detects a security situation motion sensor activated glass break sensor activated a remote user monitoring the situation in the structure using computing device may instruct UAV to launch and follow a pre programmed flight path to video the outside of the structure e.g. a pool area or location of the security situation. UAV may maintain a connection to base unit through the WiFi network for its entire flight path and provide live video of the exterior of the structure to base unit . Base unit may stream the live video to computing device e.g. smartphone . The user may also modify the flight path in response to the observed situation communicating the flight path changes from computing device though network to base unit . Base unit may control UAV through the structure s WiFi network.

In some embodiments UAV may be programmed to follow waypoints on a path to a certain location and hover near a certain location e.g. a front door to awaiting the intruder s exit a pool to verify a child has fallen in etc. . In various embodiments UAV may take video of license plates of nearby cars in case one of them belongs to the intruder while flying down a street e.g. under real time control from the user using computing device following a pre programmed route etc. . In various embodiments when UAV flies out of range of the WiFi network the video may be stored locally in UAV . In response to UAV again being within range of the WiFi network e.g. on its way back to its landing pad the video may be uploaded through the WiFi network. In this way UAV may advantageously convince a would be intruder upon seeing UAV circling the structure at the slightest provocation to try a softer target.

In various embodiments UAV is employed in additional or alternative ways. UAV may perform periodic patrols e.g. following programmed routes around the property on which the structure is disposed . UAV may include sensors e.g. motion sensor infrared cameras additional Bluetooth sensors etc. for monitoring e.g. to detect an unfamiliar car a pedestrian and the like within the property s perimeter . UAV may communicate through WiFi with base unit e.g. to initiate a notification of the user via computing device . The user can then monitor the situation and direct further action. UAV may also launch to perform a pre programmed mission in response to input received from at least one of peripherals without intervention by the user.

In some embodiments UAV may be located outdoors e.g. on the roof of the structure . UAV may be stored in a shelter not shown in which protects UAV from exposure to the elements and which does not interfere with UAV s flight capabilities. The shelter may include a charging system. For example the shelter includes a wireless charging system so that launch of UAV may be performed without disconnecting charging wires. By way of further example the shelter also includes a mechanism to facilitate launch e.g. to move the UAV out of the shelter for launch open the roof of the shelter to allow the UAV to achieve aerodynamic lift etc. .

Speaker may be a loudspeaker. Two or more of speaker may be disposed in and or about the structure for purposes such as structure wide music reproduction audio effects e.g. multichannel surround sound and coverage for public address system PA system . Base unit and or a home entertainment system not shown in may provide ambient music both inside e.g. through ceiling mounted speakers and outside e.g. for music on patios in pool areas etc. the structure. In some embodiments audio from the base unit s voice communications may be provided through one or more of high quality speaker . In conjunction with at least one of DECT phone or smartphone to provide a microphone or an external microphone not shown in connected to base unit base unit may use speaker to provide a much higher quality speakerphone experience.

Speaker may also be used in a manner similar to DECT phone e.g. to play announcements messages and to replace or augment alarm sirens smoke alarm and or carbon monoxide detector of sensor e.g. to replace or augment a separate alarm siren and dedicated alarm sirens not shown in e.g. to replace or augment a separate alarm siren .

Thermostat senses an ambient temperature and controls a structure s heating and or air conditioning system according to a desired temperature. Thermostat may control the temperature of the structure according to a predetermined schedule such as setting a lower temperature at night. Thermostat may be a smart thermostat which for example learns when the structure is likely to be occupied and when it is likely to be empty e.g. to automatically pre heat or pre cool the structure . Additionally or alternatively more than one of thermostat is disposed in the structure to control temperature in individual rooms or zones.

For example thermostat may include a motion sensor to determine occupancy and adjust temperature accordingly. In some embodiments the thermostat is connected to base unit via DECT ULE or other wireless communication . The motion sensor of thermostat may be used as an additional sensor to detect intruders. In this way a motion sensor of thermostat provides the advantages of augmenting a separate motion sensor of sensor and or eliminating a separate motion sensor and its associated costs reducing the overall cost of the system . Additionally or alternatively thermostat may provide temperature information to base unit . In this way dangerous conditions e.g. high temperatures associated with a heat wave fire etc. may be detected.

Baby monitor includes audio and or video sensors e.g. microphone video camera etc. for example to remotely monitor a baby from outside the baby s room. Baby monitor may optionally include at least one of a night light motion sensors e.g. to sound an alarm if the baby stops moving for a predetermined amount of time and night vision technology e.g. infrared light emitting diodes and a charge coupled device CCD sensor sensitive to infrared light to enable viewing of a darkened room. When communicatively coupled to base unit baby monitor may also be used to provide audio or video for security monitoring augmenting alert sounds communicating with intruders etc. as described above.

Smartphone is a mobile phone with more advanced computing capability and connectivity than for example basic feature phones. In some embodiments smartphone is one of computing device . As described herein smartphone may be used to monitor and control peripherals . For example a web client or other software application on smartphone may trigger actions designed to intimidate the intruder include activating a siren including those incorporated into sensors DECT phones speakers baby monitors etc. in the house by using actuators to cause the lights to flash lock doors and the like. For example such actions can performed using communications between base unit and at least one peripheral via DECT ULE.

In various embodiments smartphone also serves a role similar to peripherals . For example data from sensors e.g. front and or rear facing cameras microphone s Global Positioning System GPS radio WiFi modem Bluetooth modem etc. of smartphone is provided to base unit received by base unit and used by base unit in a manner similar to peripherals as described herein.

The present invention offers the user additional choices to respond to the intruder that leverage the VoIP capabilities of the server infrastructure. From his web or smartphone client the user upon determining that the intruder alert is valid could initiate a 911 call as if it were originating from the house rather than from the user s smartphone client. Normally a 911 call from a cell phone is directed to a public safety access point PSAP associated with the geographical location of the cell phone. For a user at a remote location who is alerted that his house is being invaded dialing 911 from his cell phone would result in significant delay as he explains the situation to the PSAP serving the physical location of his smartphone rather than that of the house that has been invaded then waits for his call to be transferred to a PSAP in the area of his home and then takes the time to communicate the location of the house that is being invaded which may even be in another state and convinces the authorities to go to the invaded house. In the present invention since the base unit in the house also provides VoIP service for the home it is already provisioned to have its phone number associated with the appropriate physical address of the house. In the present invention the user operating his web or smartphone based client may initiate a 911 call from the user running the app as if it were originating from the invaded house. The call will then directly connect to the PSAP that is local to the invaded house with the proper address electronically passed to the PSAP as if the call had originated from the invaded house bypassing the delay of the earlier scenario.

As would readily be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art various combinations and permutations of inputs from peripherals are received by base unit actions taken by base unit based at least in part on the inputs and options offered to a user via a software application on computing device are possible. By way of example water moisture sensors alert the owner to possible leak situations via a smartphone interface on computing device UAV is dispatched to observe the impacted area. By way of further non limiting example similar responses are provided for alerts from freeze sensors power failure sensors humidity sensors and numerous other sensors again with embodiments to play announcements contact the user share on social media dispatch a drone etc.

External bridge unit includes bridge which connects interfaces for one or more other protocols for example Bluetooth BLE ZigBee ZWave DECT and other Wireless Interfaces . Bridge unit may be connected to base unit via one of the bridge interfaces connecting to the base unit s WiFi Radio or DECT Radio via a USB connection from the base unit USB interface to a USB connection on the bridge not shown via a wired network connection through network to a wired connection on the bridge not shown or through another wired or wireless network connection.

At step a critical event such as an intruder entering the structure is determined from at least the received sensor data. For example the intruder trips a motion sensor of sensor which is interpreted as a critical event.

At step an alert is created based at least on the critical event. For example the alert includes information about the critical event e.g. glass breakage detected in the family room smoke detected in the kitchen etc. 

At step base unit optionally provides the alert to server . For example base unit optionally sends the alert to server through communications network and communications . In some embodiments where the apparatus and methods of server are incorporated into base unit the alert is not provided to server but instead used internally by base unit .

At step server optionally receives the alert provided at step . In some embodiments where the apparatus and methods of server are incorporated into base unit the alert is not received by server but instead used internally by base unit .

At step user preferences associated with base unit and or a user of base unit are retrieved e.g. read from a database not shown in and analyzed. At step a response is determined based at least on the user preferences and the nature of the alert. For example the determined response is to send a notification including a form of notification e.g. send a notification through software application SMS text message etc. . At step the notification is optionally provided. For example base unit and or server after analyzing at least one of the sensor data critical event alert and the user preferences communicate the notification to a software application on computing device e.g. user s smartphone through a push notification. In response to receiving the notification the software application attracts the user s attention e.g. providing an audible tone flashing screen etc. and apprises the user of the situation at the structure e.g. through at least one of displayed text displayed graphics including video and audible tones and or voice . As another example the notification is an SMS text message sent to smartphone . In some embodiments the software application is not used when the notifications are SMS text messages.

Steps may be performed at base unit server and combinations thereof. In some embodiments where the apparatus and methods of server are incorporated into base unit steps are performed by base unit .

The software application on computing device may use data from a GPS radio to determine a present location. Based at least on the present location the software application will process the alert. For example in response to the software application determining the user is not presently in the structure and therefore not under threat by a possible intruder the software application displays the nature of the notification and presents multiple options for responding to the notification. The options presented to the user may be based in part on the capabilities of computing device smartphone phablet tablet computer notebook computer desktop computer etc. features supported by base unit and or server e.g. place telephone call send an SMS text message etc. and availability of peripherals e.g. presence of siren camera etc. . The operation of computing device and software application are described further in relation to .

At step optionally an instruction is received. For example the software application on computing device may send an instruction generated based at least on a user selection from options presented. In some embodiments a predetermined course of action may be taken automatically without receipt of the instruction in response to a particular determined critical event.

At step a peripheral and or service is activated. As described in greater detail herein peripherals and or services such as an internal and or external siren lighting e.g. flash turn on and turn off audible and or visual alarm in a smoke detector a personal surveillance drone door locks window coverings e.g. open close and trim postings to social media and the like may be controlled or performed. In some embodiments where instructions are not received from the user the activation may be automatic and or based on the determined response step .

At step a user interface is provided by computing device for example in response to receipt of the notification. In some embodiments the user interface at least notifies the user graphically and or textually that a notification has been received. For example the software application launches its user interface and offers the user the opportunity to activate a menu of alert responses i.e. choices .

At step a location of computing device and hence a user of computing device is determined for example based in part on information received from a GPS radio of computing device .

At step the presence of the user in the structure is evaluated based on the determined location. For example if the client software application determines that the user is physically in the structure where the intruder has been detected then it is possible that the user is not in a safe position to interact with the software application. In response to the user not being in the structure the method proceeds to step . In response to the user being in the structure the method proceeds to step .

At step a reaction from the user responsive to the user interface is evaluated. For example when the user does not respond no response to the appearance of the user interface and or opportunity to activate the menu of alert responses then the user may not be free to operate the software application e.g. since he may be in dangerous proximity to the intruder . In response to the user responding the method proceeds to step . In response to the user not responding the method proceeds to step .

At step an incoming communication e.g. telephone call text message email etc. from base unit and or server is received. For example when the user does not respond to the user interface the software application sends a message to base unit and or server that causes a call to be placed to the smartphone. In some embodiments the incoming call may verbally ask a challenge question for at least one of a keyword key phrase personal identification number PIN and the like to cancel alarm condition e.g. the alert .

At step user input is received. User input is for example a verbal response to the challenge question or no response. At step the user input or lack thereof is evaluated to determine if the user input is satisfactory. For example satisfactory input is the expected predetermined keyword key phrase or personal identification number PIN . For example unsatisfactory input is the user does not answer the call no response the user fails to respond to the call with the proper keyword or PIN to disable the monitoring system the user responds with a pre arranged panic keyword or PIN and the like. In response to the user providing a satisfactory response the method proceeds to step . In response to the user not providing a satisfactory response the method proceeds to step .

At step a user status is provided to base unit and or server . For example a user status indicates the user did not provide a satisfactory response. In response to receipt of the user status base unit and or server may be programmed to presume the user is under duress or otherwise in danger. For example base unit and or server may initiate a 911 call originating from the structure s address. The 911 call placed may have an automated message that describes the situation e.g. based on sensor data critical event lack of user response etc. so that authorities can have the best opportunity to safely handle the situation even when the user himself is not in a safe position to speak with the authorities. In this way the user is given ample opportunity to disable the alarm condition e.g. alert but not at the expense of ultimately notifying the authorities.

At step options are presented. For example computing device may present a menu of alert responses. Alert responses may include activating the microphone in one or more of DECT phone hit a virtual panic button and the like. Further examples of alert response are described above.

At step an instruction associated with the received selection is provided to base unit and or server . For example if the user hits the virtual panic button then an instruction to initiate a 911 call is sent to base unit and or server .

In the absence of communication with the user or lack of response from the user at any stage pre programmed actions may be determined and performed by the base unit or the server .

Mass storage which may be implemented with a magnetic disk drive solid state drive SSD or an optical disk drive is a non volatile storage device for storing data and instructions for use by processor . Mass storage can store the system software for implementing embodiments of the present technology for purposes of loading that software into memory .

Portable storage operates in conjunction with a portable non volatile storage medium such as a floppy disk compact disk or digital video disc to input and output data and code to and from the computing system of . The system software for implementing embodiments of the present technology may be stored on such a portable medium and input to the computing system via the portable storage . Portable storage operates in conjunction with a portable non volatile storage medium such as a floppy disk compact disk or digital video disc to input and output data and code to and from the computing system of . The system software for implementing embodiments of the present technology may be stored on such a portable medium and input to the computing system via the portable storage .

Input devices provide a portion of a user interface. Input devices may include an alphanumeric keypad such as a keyboard for inputting alphanumeric and other information or a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball stylus or cursor direction keys. Additionally the system as shown in includes output devices . Suitable output devices include speakers printers network interfaces and monitors.

Display system includes a liquid crystal display LCD or other suitable display device. Display system receives textual and graphical information and processes the information for output to the display device.

In addition to peripherals peripherals may include any type of computer support device to add additional functionality to the computing system. Peripherals for example include a modem and or a router.

The components contained in the computing system of are those typically found in computing systems that may be suitable for use with embodiments of the present technology and are intended to represent a broad category of such computer components that are well known in the art. Thus the computing system can be a personal computer hand held computing system telephone mobile phone smartphone tablet phablet wearable technology mobile computing system workstation server minicomputer mainframe computer or any other computing system. The computer can also include different bus configurations networked platforms multi processor platforms etc. Various operating systems can be used including UNIX LINUX WINDOWS MACINTOSH OS IOS ANDROID CHROME and other suitable operating systems.

Some of the above described functions may be composed of instructions that are stored on storage media e.g. computer readable medium . The instructions may be retrieved and executed by the processor. Some examples of storage media are memory devices tapes disks and the like. The instructions are operational when executed by the processor to direct the processor to operate in accord with the technology. Those skilled in the art are familiar with instructions processor s and storage media.

In some embodiments the computing system may be implemented as a cloud based computing environment such as a virtual machine operating within a computing cloud. In other embodiments the computing system may itself include a cloud based computing environment where the functionalities of the computing system are executed in a distributed fashion. Thus the computing system when configured as a computing cloud may include pluralities of computing devices in various forms as will be described in greater detail below.

In general a cloud based computing environment is a resource that typically combines the computational power of a large grouping of processors such as within web servers and or that combines the storage capacity of a large grouping of computer memories or storage devices. Systems that provide cloud based resources may be utilized exclusively by their owners or such systems may be accessible to outside users who deploy applications within the computing infrastructure to obtain the benefit of large computational or storage resources.

The cloud is formed for example by a network of web servers that comprise a plurality of computing devices such as the computing system with each server or at least a plurality thereof providing processor and or storage resources. These servers manage workloads provided by multiple users e.g. cloud resource customers or other users . Typically each user places workload demands upon the cloud that vary in real time sometimes dramatically. The nature and extent of these variations typically depends on the type of business associated with the user.

It is noteworthy that any hardware platform suitable for performing the processing described herein is suitable for use with the technology. The terms computer readable storage medium and computer readable storage media as used herein refer to any medium or media that participate in providing instructions to a CPU for execution. Such media can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical magnetic and solid state disks such as a fixed disk. Volatile media include dynamic memory such as system RAM. Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics among others including the wires that comprise one embodiment of a bus. Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM disk digital video disk DVD any other optical medium any other physical medium with patterns of marks or holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM an EEPROM a FLASH memory any other memory chip or data exchange adapter a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a CPU for execution. A bus carries the data to system RAM from which a CPU retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by system RAM can optionally be stored on a fixed disk either before or after execution by a CPU.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present technology may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as JAVA SMALLTALK C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present technology has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Exemplary embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present technology and its practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Aspects of the present technology are described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present technology. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

While the present technology has been described in connection with a series of preferred embodiment these descriptions are not intended to limit the scope of the technology to the particular forms set forth herein. It will be further understood that the methods of the technology are not necessarily limited to the discrete steps or the order of the steps described. To the contrary the present descriptions are intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the technology as defined by the appended claims and otherwise appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

