---

title: Transmission actuator and methods of use and manufacture thereof
abstract: Some embodiments are directed to a vehicular transmission actuator. A release shaft is operatively coupled to a gear, and is actuable between a first position in which the gear is engaged, and a second position in which the gear is disengaged. The release shaft extends through an opening of a transmission case so as to define an exterior portion that projects beyond the exterior surface of the transmission case. A protuberance is disposed at the exterior surface of the transmission case adjacent the opening. A bracket is operatively connectable to the exterior portion of the release shaft to enable manual actuation of the release shaft from the first position to the second position. The bracket is configured to cooperate with the protuberance to automatically hold the release shaft in the second position subsequent to manual actuation of the release shaft from the first position to the second position.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09447876&OS=09447876&RS=09447876
owner: HONDA MOTOR CO., LTD.
number: 09447876
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140611
---
The disclosed subject matter relates to vehicle transmissions that include multiple gears or gear missions and methods of use and manufacture thereof. More particularly the disclosed subject matter relates to methods and apparatus that place and hold a vehicle transmission in a certain gear.

Related art vehicles include manual and automatic transmissions that provide various gears or gear selection conditions such as Drive Reverse Park and Neutral. Many of these related art manual and automatic transmissions include a manually operated gear shifter that enables a vehicle operator to select a certain gear selection condition such as Neutral where the transmission output shaft can be decoupled from the transmission input shaft so that the vehicle can be moved independently of the operating state of the power source driving the transmission. This gear shifter is typically a mechanical device that is disposed for actuation by an individual operating the vehicle.

The related art mechanical gear shifters may be manually operated to shift the vehicle transmission into a certain gear regardless of certain other vehicle conditions. For example an operator can use some of these mechanical gear shifters to change the vehicle transmission gear even if the vehicle is not able to be operated or driven electrical energy is unavailable such as due to a dead or inoperable battery etc. The ability to shift gears independent of other vehicle conditions such as drivability electric power supply etc. can be beneficial under certain circumstances such as in situations where it is helpful to shift the vehicle transmission into Neutral so that the vehicle can be manually manipulated or moved serviced etc.

However operation of certain other types of transmissions such as shift by wire transmissions are dependent on the supply of electricity. For example some of these transmissions activate the desired gear selection condition via electrical or electro mechanical actuators in response to a signal device such as electronic buttons that are at least partially dependent on the supply of electricity. This dependency on electricity thereby can impede the activation of the desired gear selection condition such as Neutral to enable manual movement service etc. under certain of the above circumstances e.g. dead or inoperable battery etc.

It may therefore be beneficial to provide methods and apparatus for enabling the shifting of gear selection conditions under any one or multiple of the above circumstances. This shifting of gear selection conditions can include or otherwise cover the ability to shift among or to all gear selection conditions only among or to certain gear selection conditions and or among or to only a single gear selection condition such as Neutral. Some of the disclosed methods and apparatus enable both shifting among or to gears as well as holding locking or maintaining the transmission in the selected gear for a certain period.

These methods and apparatus may be especially beneficial for transmissions that are at least partially dependent on the supply of electricity because they provide the ability to switch gear selection condition under circumstances where such switching could otherwise be difficult or not possible. However some or all of these methods and apparatus may also be applicable or beneficial to transmissions with gear shifters that operate independently of electric power supply drivability etc. because they can provide an alternative to and in some cases override the gear shifting mechanism. This alternative or override gear shifting mechanism may be beneficial in situations where the primary gear shifter is stuck broken inoperable or otherwise inconvenient to use.

Some embodiments are therefore directed to a transmission actuator for use with a vehicle transmission that includes at least one gear disposed within a transmission case. The transmission case can include an exterior surface and an opening defined therein. The transmission actuator can include a release shaft operatively coupled to the at least one gear and actuable between a first position in which the at least one gear is in an engaged state and a second position in which the at least one gear is in a disengaged state the release shaft extending through the opening of the transmission case so as to define an exterior portion that projects beyond the exterior surface of the transmission case. A protuberance can be disposed at the exterior surface of the transmission case adjacent the opening. A bracket can be operatively connectable to the exterior portion of the release shaft to enable manual actuation of the release shaft from the first position to the second position. The bracket can be configured to cooperate with the protuberance to automatically hold the release shaft in the second position subsequent to manual actuation of the release shaft from the first position to the second position.

Some other embodiments are directed to a vehicular transmission system including a transmission case having an exterior surface and an opening defined therein. At least one gear can be disposed within the transmission case the at least one gear corresponding to a Park gear of the transmission. A transmission actuator can include a release shaft operatively coupled to the at least one gear and actuable between a first position in which the at least one gear is in an engaged state and a second position in which the at least one gear is in a disengaged state that corresponds to a Neutral state of the transmission the release shaft extending through the opening of the transmission case so as to define an exterior portion that projects beyond the exterior surface of the transmission case. A protuberance can be disposed at the exterior surface of the transmission case adjacent the opening. A bracket can be operatively connectable to the exterior portion of the release shaft to enable manual actuation of the release shaft from the first position to the second position. The bracket can be configured to cooperate with the protuberance to automatically hold the release shaft in the second position subsequent to manual actuation of the release shaft from the first position to the second position.

Still other embodiments are directed to a method of disengaging at least one gear of a vehicular transmission. The at least one gear can be disposed within a transmission case and the transmission case can include an exterior surface and an opening defined therein. The method can include manually positioning a bracket over a protuberance defined at an exterior surface of the transmission case such that a keyed portion of a release shaft which projects beyond the exterior surface of the transmission case extends within a slot defined in a top surface of the bracket. The method can also include rotating the bracket with the keyed portion disposed within the slot so as to correspondingly rotate the release shaft the release being shaft operatively coupled to the at least one gear such that rotation of the bracket actuates the release shaft from a first position in which the at least one gear is in an engaged state and a second position in which the at least one gear is in a disengaged state. The method can further include lowering the bracket over the protuberance such that the protuberance is disposed within an interior space of the bracket the bracket and protuberance being configured to cooperate to automatically hold the release shaft in the second position subsequent to actuation of the release shaft from the first position to the second position.

A few inventive aspects of the disclosed embodiments are explained in detail below with reference to the various figures. Exemplary embodiments are described to illustrate the disclosed subject matter not to limit its scope which is defined by the claims. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a number of equivalent variations of the various features provided in the description that follows.

As shown in a vehicle can include a power source transmission pair of front wheels L R pair of rear wheels L R and gear selector . The power source can be configured to output torque to the transmission . The transmission can include a plurality of gears that can be selectively engaged and disengaged in various combinations to provide a plurality of drive ratios for transmitting torque output by the power source to at least one of the wheels L R L R.

Some of the embodiments are disclosed below in the context of a vehicle with a drive by wire transmission . However other embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any type of transmission other than the disclosed drive by wire system.

As shown in the manually actuable gear selector can be provided to enable a vehicle operator to change a transmission gear selection condition. Embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any type of gear selector to enable performance of this manual operation including known related art or later developed technologies. In some embodiments the gear selector can be in communication such as in electrical communication with the transmission to permit the vehicle operator to instruct the transmission to engage any of the plurality of gear ratios parking gear neutral state etc. of the transmission . In some embodiments the electrical communication can operate in accordance with a drive by wire system.

The gear selector can include an actuation mechanism to enable manual selection of the appropriate gear ratio parking gear neutral state etc. In the embodiment shown in a plurality of actuation mechanisms such as switches are provided to enable this manual selection wherein a separate switch is provided for each gear. For example actuation of 1 the park switch can instruct the transmission to engage the parking gear 2 the reverse switch can instruct the transmission to engage the reverse drive ratio 3 the neutral switch can instruct the transmission to be in the neutral state and 4 the drive switch can instruct the transmission to engage one the forward drive ratios.

However embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover other actuation mechanisms. For example as an alternative to multiple switches a single switch with multiple settings can be manually actuated to instruct the transmission to adopt the appropriate gear ratio parking gear neutral state etc.

Some of the above actuation mechanisms such as those where the gear selector is in electrical communication with the transmission can be dependent on the supply of electricity. This dependency on electricity thereby can impede the shifting of gear selection conditions such as into Neutral to enable manual movement service etc. without a source of electricity such as in the case of a dead or inoperable battery etc. For example if the vehicle s electrical system is inoperative and the parking gear is engaged the vehicle cannot be easily moved to a location suitable for diagnosing the inoperative electrical system if necessary and repairing or replacing one or more components of the electrical system.

It may therefore be beneficial to provide methods and apparatus for enabling the shifting of gear selection conditions under any one or multiple of the above circumstances. This shifting of gear selection conditions can include or otherwise cover the ability to shift among or to all gear selection conditions only among or to certain gear selection conditions and or among or to only a single gear selection condition such as the Neutral selection condition. Some of the disclosed methods and apparatus enable both shifting among or to gear selection conditions as well as holding locking or maintaining the transmission in the selected gear for a certain period.

The transmission of some embodiments therefore includes a release mechanism for performing any of the above operations. As shown in the release mechanism can include a release shaft that extends within and protrudes beyond an exterior of a transmission case . In the embodiments disclosed below the release shaft is coupled to an engagement mechanism of the parking gear to enable either engagement or disengagement of the parking gear . However the release shaft can be directly or indirectly coupled to an engagement mechanism of any of the gears in addition or as an alternative to the parking gear . As discussed in more detail below a bracket or other tool can be configured to directly or indirectly engage and rotate the release shaft and thereby actuate engagement or disengagement of the parking gear by virtue of the fact that release shaft is coupled to the engagement mechanism of the parking gear .

A distal end of release rod can normally urge and or maintain a pawl in an engaged position against the biasing of a pawl spring wherein a tooth of pawl meshes with gear teeth of the parking gear . This position can correspond to transmission being in a park engaged state and or correspond to a power source of a vehicle being turned off thereby preventing vehicle movement.

In some embodiments distal end of release rod can include an engaging member that can be slidably disposed on release rod for engaging parking pawl which as discussed above can cause tooth to engage or otherwise mesh with the parking gear teeth . Engaging member can be urged away from the proximal end of release rod by a coil spring which is disposed between engaging member and a washer element . The washer element is disposed at or on release rod between the proximal and distal ends respectively. The sliding arrangement of engaging member at or on release rod can allow for smoother cooperation between the release rod and pawl particularly in situations where tooth of parking pawl is not precisely aligned between two adjacent gear teeth of the parking gear .

If release shaft is rotated in a first rotatable direction counter clockwise direction in then plate member can rotate in that direction and cause release rod to move away from pawl . This movement can disengage parking gear by causing engaging member to move away from pawl thereby allowing pawl spring to rotate pawl out of meshing engagement with parking gear . Parking gear is then free to rotate and the transmission can be placed in a neutral state.

A spring can be connected to a flange of plate member for biasing the plate member and thereby the release shaft and release rod in a second rotatable direction i.e. a rotatable direction opposite the first rotatable direction clockwise direction in . The release shaft is thereby biased to the first engaged position and away from the second neutral position by the spring . The release rod is also biased into engagement with pawl which engages parking gear by causing engaging member to move into contact with pawl thereby overcoming the force of pawl spring to rotate pawl into meshing engagement with parking gear . Parking gear is then not free to rotate and the transmission is placed in a parked state.

As will be discussed in further detail below the bracket can be configured to maintain the release shaft in the second position against the biasing force of the spring if the tool is used to rotate the park release shaft in the first rotatable direction .

Exemplary bracket can be oriented to receive and engage keyed portion which constitutes a portion of the release shaft that is disposed exterior to the transmission case . As discussed above release shaft can be operably coupled to various elements of the transmission such that rotation of the park release shaft transitions or actuates the transmission from a parked state to a neutral state.

As shown in the transmission case can include a shaft aperture that is formed as a cylindrical opening through protuberance at or on the exterior of transmission case . Release shaft can be located adjacent to or extend through aperture such that release shaft is accessible outside of the transmission case .

The bracket and protuberance can be formed in any shape that enables the operations disclosed herein to be performed. In the embodiment shown in protuberance is in the form of a polygonal shaped block member that is positioned on or at and extends outwardly from transmission case . Aperture can formed in in the protuberance in any shape that enables the guiding of release shaft therethrough such that an open end of aperture is defined in a protuberance top surface .

As discussed above in the context of release shaft can be operatively connected to various elements of the transmission such that rotating release shaft rotates release rod and thereby places transmission into the neutral state. In one embodiment release shaft can be manually rotated in the first direction counter clockwise direction in which moves release rod out of engagement with pawl which allows pawl spring to disengage pawl tooth from parking gear teeth .

Bracket can be configured to be positioned over a guide defined by protuberance and engage keyed portion of release shaft that is exterior to the transmission case . In the embodiment shown in protuberance includes four side walls . The lengths of the protuberance side walls is less than lengths of corresponding side walls of bracket such that protuberance can be removably received by and positioned within bracket . In other words when properly aligned and fully engaged bracket is seated over and surrounds protuberance .

A height of protuberance side walls may be equal to or greater than a height of side walls of bracket such that a top end section of bracket abuts a top surface of protuberance . Keyed portion can extend to a height away from protuberance that is a greater than a height of perpendicular side walls of bracket tool such that the keyed portion extends within elongated slot .

As discussed above with regard to and shown in release shaft can be disposed such that an upper end of the shaft is spaced apart from an upper end of the transmission case and can have a keyed configuration that for cooperative engagement with bracket . For example the keyed portion of the release shaft can be oriented for partial or full receipt within elongated slot of top end section of bracket . In other words keyed portion of release shaft can cooperatively fit within elongated slot defined in the top end section of bracket .

In the embodiment shown in elongated slot is shown in a centrally oriented position within top end section of bracket tool . Likewise keyed portion is shown as a centrally oriented member fixed to or extending from release shaft . However embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover other orientations and arrangements that can be employed for cooperative engagement between mechanisms. For example some alternative embodiments include keyed portion and elongated slot that are eccentrically located. In fact embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any structures and dispositions of these elements that enables the bracket to engage the release shaft such that rotation of the bracket causes the release shaft to rotate.

In some embodiments release shaft can be configured to rotate between a first or park engaged position and second or neutral position. When transmission is in a state where parking gear is engaged park release shaft is disposed in the first park engaged position. In fact shows bracket tool and release shaft disposed in the first park engaged position.

Release shaft is in the first park engaged position corresponding to a park engaged state of the transmission in its default position i.e. prior to the bracket engaging and rotating the release shaft . As shown in bracket can be manually oriented such that elongated slot is aligned above the keyed portion with the keyed portion and park release shaft in the first position. Bracket can be lowered to a position where keyed portion is at least partially received through elongated slot with bracket remaining elevated above protuberance top surface .

As shown in elongated slot extends in a direction of elongation that intersects planes of the side walls which causes the bracket to be oriented at an offset angle relative to the protuberance when the release shaft is in the first park engaged position. Thus the bracket interior space is misaligned with the protuberance side walls causing the bracket to rest above the protuberance . However as disclosed below rotation of the bracket can cause the bracket and protuberance to be aligned such that the protuberance fits inside of the bracket i.e. protuberance side walls and top surface are disposed in the bracket interior space .

Rotating bracket in the counter clockwise direction allows the side walls of the bracket to be aligned with the side walls of the protuberance thereby enabling the bracket to be lowered such that protuberance fits within the bracket . The bracket is then held in place over the protuberance against the bias of the spring based on the contact between the side walls and edges of both of these elements. Maintaining the bracket in this orientation also fixes the release shaft in this orientation.

Rotation of the release shaft causes the plate member to rotate which moves the release rod away from and out of engagement with the pawl . This disengagement with the pawl causes the pawl spring to move pawl away from the parking gear such that pawl tooth is moved out of engagement with the gear teeth of the parking gear thereby placing the transmission on the neutral state. Thus bracket can be used to place and maintain the transmission in the neutral state independently of the vehicle s electrical system.

In other words keyed portion and thus release shaft can rotate within a predetermined angle of rotation that can be sufficient to cause the tooth of the parking pawl to disengage from the gear teeth of the parking gear in order to place transmission in a neutral state. In the embodiments shown in the figures discussed above release shaft can rotate in a counter clockwise direction such as for approximately twenty degrees away from an engaged position to a neutral position. However the various embodiments are not limited to any specific direction of rotation and angle of rotation and in fact embodiments are intended to cover various directions of rotations angles and distances of rotations. For example in some embodiments release shaft can rotate in a clockwise direction away from the engaged position to the neutral position.

However embodiments are not limited to these shapes and geometries. For example various aspects of the bracket including the side walls and top end section can each be formed of any size and shape that is able to perform the above operations. Thus these features of the bracket can be formed of any size and shape including triangular polygonal irregular etc. that enables the appropriate communications with the protuberance and keyed portion of the release shaft . In fact the bracket does not even need to include four side walls and instead can include three side walls that define a triangular configuration assuming that this triangular configuration would then communicate with the configuration of the protuberance .

As another example the exterior of the top end section of bracket is shown in the figures as being substantially planar and or flat. However this exterior surface can be provided in any shape or contour such as convex and concave shapes. In fact some of these embodiments tailor the exterior surface shape to enhance functionality such as by enhancing grip ability of the bracket to facilitate a user manually grasping and rotating the bracket .

The elongated slot defined in the top end section of the bracket can also be formed into any size shape and orientation that enables performance of the relevant operation s discussed above i.e. communication with the keyed portion of the release shaft . For example elongated slot can be oriented differently than shown in the figures and or can be provided in different size and shapes that enable the keyed portion to be secured to the bracket such that rotation of the bracket causes the keyed portion and thus the release shaft to rotate.

As discussed above with regard to the various features of the bracket can be formed of other shapes and sizes that perform the above operations. For example the side walls and top end section can be formed of any thickness to define an interior space of any size and shape that communicates with the protuberance and keyed portion .

All of the above elements can be formed of any material that enables performance of the above operations. For example the bracket can be made of any known related art or later developed material including metal or metal alloy such as steel aluminum etc. thermoplastic material and or resin having sufficient strength and resiliency to perform the disclosed operations.

As shown in the elongated slot extends in a direction of elongation that intersects planes defined by two of the side walls at an angle . In the embodiment shown in the figures the elongated slot is oriented such that this angle is acute and equal to between approximately 20 degrees to approximately 30 degrees.

This angle is based on the amount of rotation required for 1 the bracket to fit over and cover protuberance such that protuberance is disposed in the interior space of bracket and 2 sufficient rotation of the keyed portion and release shaft to enable movement of the plate member and release rod to cause disengagement between the tooth of pawl and gear teeth of the parking gear . However embodiments are intended to include various other slot offsets that enable performance of the above operations.

Embodiments are also intended to include or otherwise cover methods of manufacturing and or using the features disclosed above including the exemplary bracket . is a flowchart of an exemplary method of shifting gears in accordance with the disclosure.

The method begins at Step with providing the bracket disclosed above such as including the elongated slot formed at an offset. Thus the exemplary method is disclosed in association with the exemplary bracket disclosed above however embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover methods of using other different types of brackets.

Step includes positioning neutral bracket tool over a release mechanism i.e. positioning bracket tool such that elongated slot is disposed over keyed portion of release shaft for alignment and reception into elongated slot . The keyed portion can then be received in and engaged by elongated slot of bracket at Step . Then at Steps and bracket is rotated to align the side walls of protuberance with the side walls of bracket so that lowering bracket causes protuberance to fit within the interior space of bracket . This rotation also causes sufficient rotation of the keyed portion and release shaft to enable movement of the plate member and release rod to cause disengagement between the tooth of pawl and gear teeth of the parking gear .

In other words keyed portion and release shaft can rotate within a limited angle of movement in order to place transmission in a neutral position. The angle and direction of movement can be any appropriate value and direction that can facilitate engagement and disengagement of the parking gear . In one embodiment release shaft can rotate in a counter clockwise direction for approximately twenty degrees away from a park engaged position to a neutral position. However specific directions and distances of movement of release shaft are exemplary and embodiments are intended to cover various directions of movements and distances of movement. In the first park engaged position a manual or automatic torque force can be applied to bracket that rotates bracket in a horizontal plane above protuberance without moving vertically. In such an orientation side walls of bracket are unconstricted from encountering top surface or side walls of protuberance when rotating.

After rotating release shaft transmission can be set to a neutral state. Thus bracket can be configured to seat over protuberance to axially align elongated slot with park release shaft via interconnection with keyed portion . After securing bracket onto protuberance release shaft can be held in place at a correct angle and transmission can be maintained in a neutral state until the tool is removed from the protuberance .

However if bracket tool is removed the reverse torque on release shaft can cause the tooth of the pawl to engage the parking gear thus placing the transmission in a park engaged state.

The power source for vehicle can be an internal combustion engine an electric motor or a hybrid of an internal combustion engine and an electric motor. The power source configured as an internal combustion engine or a hybrid power source can have the engine output axis oriented in the longitudinal direction L or in the traverse direction T of the vehicle . The engine can be mounted forward of the front axles rearward of the rear axles or intermediate the front and rear axles. In an exemplary embodiment the power source is configured as a front transverse mounted internal combustion engine.

The transmission can be an automatic transmission or a semi automatic transmission. Transmission can include an input shaft an output shaft and a speed ratio assembly. A coupling can connect the engine output shaft to the transmission input shaft. The coupling can permit selective engagement disengagement of the input shaft with the engine output shaft or at least relative rotation of the engine output shaft with respect to the input shaft in any manner known in the art. Exemplary couplings can include but are not limited to a friction disc clutch and a torque converter. The control assembly can include a controller a speed sensor and a gear selector.

The speed ratio assembly can connect the input shaft to the transmission output shaft such that the transmission output shaft can rotate at variable speeds relative to the input shaft. The speed ratio assembly can be a stepped speed ratio assembly or a continuously variable speed ratio assembly as is known in the art. The transmission input shaft can be referred to as a mainshaft.

Electrical communication lines within vehicle can connect a controller to the power source the transmission the gear selector and a sensor in any appropriate manner. Electrical communication can be either one way communication or two way communication and can be networked or not networked. The controller also can be referred to as an electronic control unit ECU or as a central processing unit. The sensor can be configured with hardware with or without software to perform the assigned task s . The sensor can be configured as a smart sensor such that the sensor can process the raw data collected by the sensor prior to transmission to the ECU or the sensor can be configured as a simple sensor that passes the raw data directly to the ECU without any manipulation of the raw data. The sensor can be configured to send data to the ECU with or without a prompt from the ECU.

While certain embodiments of the invention are described above and disclose the best mode for practicing the various inventive aspects it should be understood that the invention can be embodied and configured in many different ways without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

For example embodiments are disclosed above in the context of bracket shown in the figures. However embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any type of bracket that performs the various operations disclosed above.

However elongated slot can be completely covered with a hollow domed portion that is only accessed from an underside of top end section . Domed portion can be formed with a wall or walls extending around aperture and away from top end section up to dome top end . Domed portion can be formed with sufficient dimensions and height to receive keyed portion of release shaft .

While domed portion is illustrated and described as an elongated extension it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes can be made and equivalents employed without departing from the scope of the invention. Exemplary embodiments are intended to include any type of structure to cover aperture . Keyed portion can be received into domed portion and rotated according to the system and methods of the embodiments. Once release shaft is turned via keyed portion bracket can seat onto protuberance thereby locking the transmission in neutral.

Embodiments are intended to include or otherwise cover any type of gear selector such as a gear shift lever which can be movable into one of a plurality of positions such that manual actuation of the gear shift lever can effect a shift from one gear ratio to another gear ratio shift to the neutral state of the transmission or engagement of the parking gear . The gear shift lever can be mounted in any one of a plurality of different locations within the vehicle including but not limited to on the center console on the steering column on the steering wheel and on the instrument panel.

Embodiments are also intended to include or otherwise cover methods of using and methods of manufacturing the bracket and other elements disclosed above. The methods of manufacturing include or otherwise cover processors and computer programs implemented by processors used to design various of the disclosed elements and systems. For example embodiments are intended to cover processors and computer programs used for design or testing.

Further exemplary embodiments are intended to cover all software or computer programs capable of enabling processors to implement the above operations designs and determinations. Exemplary embodiments are also intended to cover any and all currently known related art or later developed non transitory recording or storage mediums such as a CD ROM DVD ROM hard drive RAM ROM floppy disc magnetic tape cassette etc. that record or store such software or computer programs. Exemplary embodiments are further intended to cover such software computer programs systems and or processes provided through any other currently known related art or later developed medium such as transitory mediums carrier waves etc. usable for implementing the exemplary operations disclosed above.

These computer programs can be executed in many exemplary ways such as an application that is resident in the memory of a device or as a hosted application that is being executed on a server and communicating with the device application or browser via a number of standard protocols such as TCP IP HTTP XML SOAP REST JSON and other sufficient protocols. The disclosed computer programs can be written in exemplary programming languages that execute from memory on the device or from a hosted server such as BASIC COBOL C C Java Pascal or scripting languages such as JavaScript Python Ruby PHP Perl or other sufficient programming languages.

Some of the disclosed embodiments include or otherwise involve data transfer over a network such as communicating various inputs over the network. The network may include for example one or more of the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. a PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN a cellular network and Digital Subscriber Line xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery or tunneling mechanism for carrying data. Network may include multiple networks or subnetworks each of which may include for example a wired or wireless data pathway. The network may include a circuit switched voice network a packet switched data network or any other network able to carry electronic communications. For example the network may include networks based on the Internet protocol IP or asynchronous transfer mode ATM and may support voice using for example VoIP Voice over ATM or other comparable protocols used for voice data communications. In one implementation the network includes a cellular telephone network configured to enable exchange of text or SMS messages.

Examples of a network include but are not limited to a personal area network PAN a storage area network SAN a home area network HAN a campus area network CAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a virtual private network VPN an enterprise private network EPN Internet a global area network GAN and so forth.

While the subject matter has been described in detail with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes can be made and equivalents employed without departing from the scope of the invention. All related art references discussed in the above Description of the Related Art section are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

