---

title: System and method for displaying trading data
abstract: A system and method are provided for presenting trading information. One example method includes displaying a plurality of effective trade indicators corresponding to price levels at which effective trades have been initiated, and displaying trading information corresponding to each effective trade. The effective trades can be determined based on user-configured trade definitions. The trading information can include a traded quantity and profit/loss corresponding to each effective trade. In addition to the trading information, current market information could be displayed as well in relation to the plurality of effective trades.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09406087&OS=09406087&RS=09406087
owner: Trading Technologies International, Inc.
number: 09406087
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140129
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 858 333 filed Apr. 8 2013 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 682 769 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 158 602 filed Jun. 13 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 438 087 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 549 081 filed Aug. 27 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 032 437 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 415 356 filed May 1 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 599 868 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 095 235 filed Mar. 31 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 634 437. The entire contents of these applications are herewith incorporated by reference into the present application for all purposes.

The present invention is directed to electronic trading. More specifically the present invention is directed towards processing and displaying trading information.

An exchange is a central marketplace with established rules and regulations where buyers and sellers referred to as traders meet to trade. Some exchanges referred to as open outcry exchanges operate using a trading floor where buyers and sellers physically meet on the floor to trade. Other exchanges referred to as electronic exchanges operate by an electronic or telecommunications network instead of a trading floor to facilitate trading in an efficient versatile and functional manner. An electronic exchange typically provides a matching process between buying and selling traders. Electronic exchanges have made it possible for an increasing number of people to actively participate in a market at any given time. The increase in the number of potential market participants has led to among other things a more competitive market and greater liquidity. Some example exchanges are Eurex LIFFE CME and CBOT.

With respect to electronic exchanges traders may connect to an electronic exchange trading platform by way of a communication link through their user terminals. Once connected traders may typically choose which tradeable objects they wish to trade. As used herein the term tradeable object refers to anything that can be traded with a quantity and or price. It includes but is not limited to all types of traded events goods and or financial products which can include for example stocks options bonds futures currency and warrants as well as funds derivatives and collections of the foregoing and all types of commodities such as grains energy and metals. The tradeable object may be real such as products that are listed by an exchange for trading or synthetic such as a combination of real products that is created by the user. A tradeable object could actually be a combination of other tradeable objects such as a class of tradeable objects.

Client entities such as computers being used by traders to trade are typically connected to an electronic exchange by way of a communication link to facilitate electronic messaging between the trading entities and the exchange. The messaging may include market information that is distributed from the electronic exchange to traders as well as orders quotes acknowledgements fills cancels deletes cancel and replace and other well known financial transaction messages. Although the amount or type of market information published by an electronic exchange often differs there are typically some standard pieces of information. For instance market information usually includes the inside market which generally includes the current lowest sell price often referred to as the best ask and the current highest buy price often referred to as the best bid . Market information may also include market depth which generally refers to quantities available in the market at the price levels other than those corresponding to the inside market. In addition to providing order book information including price and quantity information electronic exchanges can offer other types of market data such as the open price settlement price net change volume last traded price last traded quantity and order fill information.

Once a trader at the client entity receives the market information it may be displayed on the trading screen. Upon viewing the market information traders can take certain actions including the actions of sending buy or sell orders to the electronic market adjusting existing orders deleting orders or otherwise managing orders. Traders may also use software tools to automate these and additional actions.

To profit in electronic markets market participants must be able to assimilate large amounts of data and must react to the received data more quickly than other competing market participants. Thus it is desirable to offer tools that can assist a trader in trading in such electronic trading systems.

Certain embodiments of the present invention provide a method for presenting trading information including receiving a user input from a user input device via a graphical user interface that provides a user configurable definition for an effective trade storing the user configurable definition for the effective trade receiving data comprising order fill information relating to orders placed for a tradeable object at an electronic exchange using the user configurable definition to determine whether the effective trade has occurred based on the received data computing the profit loss value for the effective trade based on the received data and displaying on the graphical user interface the profit loss value. The effective trade comprises a grouping of filled orders. The grouping of filled orders includes filled orders related by the user configurable definition and is to be used to determine a profit loss value for the effective trade.

Certain embodiments of the present invention provide a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions for performing a method including receiving a user input from a user input device via a graphical user interface that provides a user configurable definition for an effective trade storing the user configurable definition for the effective trade receiving data comprising order fill information relating to orders placed for a tradeable object at an electronic exchange using the user configurable definition to determine whether the effective trade has occurred based on the received data computing the profit loss value for the effective trade based on the received data and displaying on the graphical user interface the profit loss value. The effective trade comprises a grouping of filled orders. The grouping of filled orders includes filled orders related by the user configurable definition and is to be used to determine a profit loss value for the effective trade.

It is beneficial to offer tools that can assist a trader in trading in an electronic trading environment and that can help the trader to view market trends current market conditions as well as the trader s performance in a speedy and accurate manner. The example embodiments among other things are directed towards displaying volume and other trading data in relation to orders initiated by a trader. One example method includes displaying a plurality of indicators associated with a plurality of effective trades corresponding to a plurality of trades that a trader performed in relation to a tradeable object. The method also includes displaying trading related information corresponding to each effective trade. According to the example embodiment an effective trade can be detected by grouping a plurality of orders based on any user defined formula or definition that controls grouping of orders to detect the effective trade. The effective trade may be identified using a price level at which an effective trade was initiated. According to one example an effective trade could be detected when a trader s net position changes from flat to short and then to flat again with the effective trade containing all fills that were used to go back to the flat position. Then trading related information corresponding to the effective trade could include a profit loss P L level and a quantity that was traded in relation to the effective trade such as a quantity corresponding to an order that created the short position. The quantities displayed in relation to each effective trade may be grouped based on whether the order that initiated an effective trade was a buy order thus resulting in a long trade or a sell order thus resulting in a short trade. According to one example embodiment new trade indicators as well as corresponding trading data can be automatically displayed when new trades are detected.

While the example embodiments are described herein with reference to illustrative embodiments for particular applications it should be understood that the example embodiments are not limited thereto. Other systems methods and advantages of the present embodiments will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be within the scope of the present invention and be protected by the accompanying claims.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the example embodiments may be operated in an entirely software embodiment in an entirely hardware embodiment or in a combination thereof. However for sake of illustration the example embodiments are described in a software based embodiment which is executed on a computer device. As such the example embodiments may take the form of a computer program product that is stored on a computer readable storage medium and is executed by a suitable instruction system in the computer device. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including hard disks CD ROMs optical storage devices or magnetic storage devices for example.

In an electronic trading environment when an authorized trader selects a tradeable object the trader may access market data related to the selected tradeable object s . Referring to an example communication that might occur between an electronic exchange and a client entity in accordance with the example embodiments is shown. During a trading session market data in the form of messages may be relayed from a host exchange over communication links and to a client entity generally indicated as . The client entity may be a single client terminal that is used by a single trader or multiple client terminals corresponding to multiple traders associated with one or more trading groups. As illustrated in intermediate devices such as gateway s may be used to facilitate communications between the client entity and the host exchange . It should be understood that while illustrates the client entity communicating with a single host exchange in an alternative embodiment the client entity could establish trading sessions with more than one host exchange. Also it should be understood that information being communicated between the client entity and the exchange could be communicated via a single communication path.

The market data contains information that characterizes the tradeable object including among other parameters order related parameters such as price and quantity and the inside market which represents the lowest sell price also referred to as the best or lowest ask price and the highest buy price also referred to as the best or highest bid price . In some electronic markets market data may also include market depth which generally refers to quantities available for trading the tradeable object at certain buy price levels and quantities available for trading the tradeable object at certain sell price levels.

In addition to providing the tradeable object s order book information electronic exchanges can offer different types of market information such as total traded quantity for each price level opening price last traded price last traded quantity closing price or order fill information. It should be understood that market information provided from an electronic exchange could include more or fewer items depending on the type of tradeable object or the type of exchange. Also it should be understood that the messages provided in the market data may vary in size depending on the content carried by them and the software at the receiving end may be programmed to understand the messages and to act out certain operations.

A trader may view the information provided from an exchange via one or more specialized trading screens created by software running on the client entity . Upon viewing the market information or a portion thereof a trader may wish to take actions such as send orders to an exchange cancel orders at the exchange or change order parameters for example. To do that the trader may input various commands or signals into the client entity . Upon receiving one or more commands or signals from the trader the client entity may generate messages that reflect the actions taken generally shown at . It should be understood that different types of messages or order types can be submitted to the host exchange all of which may be considered various types of transaction information. Once generated user action messages may be sent from the client entity to the host exchange over communication links and .

The client entity may use software that creates specialized interactive trading screens on the client entity . The trading screens enable traders to enter and execute orders obtain market quotes and monitor positions. The range and quality of features available to the trader on his or her screens varies according to the specific software application being run. In addition to or in place of the interactive trading screens the client entity may run automated non interactive types of trading applications.

A commercially available trading application that allows a user to trade in systems like those shown in and subsequent figures is X TRADER from Trading Technologies International Inc. of Chicago Ill. X TRADER also provides an electronic trading interface referred to as MD Trader in which working orders and bid ask quantities are displayed in association with a static price axis or scale. Portions of the X TRADER and the MD Trader style display are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 772 132 entitled Click Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth filed on Jun. 9 2000 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 971 087 entitled Click Based Trading With Intuitive Grid Display of Market Depth and Price Consolidation filed on Oct. 5 2001 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 125 894 entitled Trading Tools for Electronic Trading filed on Apr. 19 2002 the contents of each are incorporated herein by reference. As mentioned above the scope of the example embodiments described herein are not limited by the type of terminal or device used and are not limited to any particular type of trading application.

The system and methods described hereinafter can be used to assist a trader in monitoring his trade history including his trading performance in a speedy and accurate manner. More specifically and as will be described in greater detail below a graphical interface is provided that allows a trader to view trade related information in relation to a plurality of indicators associated with a plurality of trades such as price levels at which a trader initiated his trades. The graphical interface may also display one or more indicators associated with market related information so that a trader can easily view current market conditions in relation to his trading data. According to the example embodiments that will be described in greater detail below the trades also referred hereinafter as effective trades may be detected based on any user configured formulas defining what constitutes an effective trade.

The trading application has access to market information and can forward transaction information to the exchange through an application programming interface API . Alternatively API could be distributed so that a portion of the API rests on the client device and a gateway or at the exchange . Additionally the trading application could receive other information through the API such as news or numbers from outside sources other than the exchange .

Client device also includes a trade information application that can implement the embodiments for presenting trading information described herein. The trade information application can generate a graphical interface that a trader can use to view his trading data arranged in relation to a plurality of effective trades detected based on effective trade definitions. According to the example embodiments the trade information application uses one or more effective trade definitions to determine when an effective trade is initiated and also how consequently filled orders should be grouped to determine any trading information corresponding to the effective trade the embodiments of which will be described in greater detail below. The trading information that can be displayed for each effective trade may include a profit loss P L level determined for a trade level a total quantity traded in relation to the effective trade as well as other information.

The effective trade definitions could be user configurable and could take many different formats. For example an effective trade could be detected when a trader after having a flat position takes a position in the market such as buys or sell quantity in relation to a tradeable object. Alternatively an effective trade could be defined when a trader s net position changes from being short to long or from long to short. According to the example embodiments described herein an effective trade contains all fills received while the trader has an open position created with an order and until the position created in relation to that order is closed. In other words an effective trade may be defined as going from a flat position to having a position either short or long to being flat again.

According to the example embodiments a trader could define additional rules that may allow the trade information application to determine how to pair the executed e.g. filled buy and sell orders to detect trade levels and to determine trading information for each effective trade. Two example methods of pairing the buy and sell orders are first in first out FIFO and last in last out LIFO . To illustrate the two methods let s assume that a trader executes three orders and the orders get filled at an electronic exchange Buy 1 with an order quantity of 5 Buy 2 with an order quantity of 5 and Sell 1 with an order quantity of 3. Using the FIFO method the trade information application may determine any trading related information such as profit loss P L values by grouping the Sell 1 order with the Buy 1 order first before the second Buy 2 order is considered. If LIFO method is used any trade information would be determined by grouping the Sell 1 order with the Buy 2 order before the first Buy 1 order is considered.

As mentioned earlier rather than using the FIFO method for grouping orders in relation to effective trades the LIFO method could be used instead. illustrate three example embodiments for detecting trades while using the LIFO method to group orders. Referring to Table shows two sell orders that constitute two trades at price levels of 1125.0 and 1127.0 respectively. No Net P L values are shown in relation to either of the orders since none of the shown orders can offset the opened positions.

The trade number column specifies the number of trades that were deemed initiated at each trade level so that when more than one effective trade was detected in relation to a specific price level that number will be displayed in the trade number column. The short quantity column and the long quantity column indicate if an effective trade was initiated with a buy order long trade or a sell order short trade . In such an embodiment two trade levels such as trade levels corresponding to the price level of 10400 could be displayed in relation to the interface when a short trade and a long trade have been initiated from the same trade level. Also while shows two separate columns in relation to short trades and long trades in an alternative embodiment the two columns could be combined into a single column reflecting a total quantity traded at each trade level. The trade levels can be determined using methods described above in relation to . However different methods could also be used for detecting trade levels.

Finally the P L column represents the cumulative profit and loss incurred in relation to each trade level. For example referring to there were two trade levels detected in relation to the price level 1124.00 and 1124.5 with two trade levels corresponding to two long trades and the cumulative P Ls for each level being 137.50 and 50 respectively. Referring to for example the trade level corresponding to the price of 10422 corresponds to 6 trades all of which were initiated as long trades with a total traded quantity of 50. Then the P L level corresponding to the 10422 trade level is 550. Similar data is shown in relation to other trade levels illustrated in . While not shown in the interface could also include the total P L level value corresponding to all trades at the plurality of trade levels. Also a plurality of P L levels could be shown in relation to each trade level and the plurality of P L values could correspond to a plurality of trades initiated at that trade level. In such an embodiment for example the trade level of 10422 could include the overall P L level and then six individual P L levels corresponding to the six trades that were initiated at that trade level. It should be understood that the entries in the display are dynamically updated as the trade information application detects new trades in relation to the existing or new trade levels. When the trade information application detects a new trade level the trade information application could automatically create a new row in the display for the detected trade level and the trading information corresponding to the new trade level could be populated in the newly created cells.

It should be understood that the trade information display is not limited to the format in and it could take many different formats and shapes. For example rather than displaying trading information corresponding to each trade level horizontally in relation to each trade level in another embodiment the same information could be displayed in vertical columns or yet in some other configuration.

Also the trade information display includes a graphical indicator in relation to each value displayed in the short and long quantity columns and . The graphical indicator as shown in could include a bar such as the bar illustrated in relation to the trade level of 10422. The length of the bar could be controlled based on any user defined scale. For example the entire length of each cell in the long and short quantity columns could be preconfigured to correspond to a predetermined value and then the length of each bar displayed in the cells could be scaled accordingly.

The trade information displays could also reflect current market conditions. The example trade information display includes a graphical indicator that dynamically corresponds to the last traded price 10400 in this example i.e. moves up and down the chart. While the indicator is of the format that highlights the entire length of the level corresponding to the trade level it should be understood that different indicators could be used as well. Also another indicator such as an indicator could be used to show whether the current last traded price is higher or lower than the previous last traded price. The upper arrow in indicates that the last traded price is higher than the previous last traded price. Similarly a down arrow could be used to show that the last traded price is lower than the previous last traded price. Rather than showing a separate indicator the indicator corresponding to the last traded price could be color coded to indicate the two situations. It should be understood that different parameters could also be displayed in relation to the last traded price. For example a value indicating a time period from the last change in the last traded price could be displayed so that a trader can easily assess the market s volatility.

Also as the last traded price moves between the plurality of trade levels the trade information display could provide additional information such as the overall P L level corresponding to a specific range of trade levels giving a trader an immediate feedback as to how the trader performed in that specific range. One example range is shown in and the range includes two trade levels. However it should be understood that a trader could define a different number of trade levels to be used in relation to displaying a range associated with the last traded price.

Rather than or in addition to displaying the last traded price level the trade information displays could include different market related data. For example one or two indicators could be used to display current inside market levels such as the best bid level the best ask level or both inside market levels in relation to the displayed trade levels. It should be understood that different graphical indicators could be used as well. Also when the inside market falls at some prices other than those corresponding to the displayed trade levels a color coded line or yet some other indicator could be displayed in relation to one or more trade levels to indicate whether the inside market is higher or lower than one or more of the displayed trade levels. For example referring to if the inside market falls between the trade levels of 10400 and 10384 an indicator such as a color coded line could be displayed on the boundary between the two cells corresponding to the trade levels. It should be understood that the trade information application could dynamically update position s of the inside market indicator s when it detects a change in the inside market levels.

The trade information displays and illustrated in relation to display trading data related to a single tradeable object being traded by a trader. In another example embodiment the trade information displays could be configured for use by a system administrator. In such an embodiment the system administrator could view multiple trade related data displays. Displays corresponding to one trader could be grouped together so that the system administrator could easily assess how each trader is doing. Alternatively trade information corresponding to a single tradeable object being traded by multiple traders could be displayed in relation to a single trade information display. In such an embodiment the system administrator could quickly assess the overall standing of all traders who trade the same tradeable object. Yet different configurations are possible as well.

The above description of the example embodiments alternative embodiments and specific examples are given by way of illustration and should not be viewed as limiting. Also many changes and modifications within the scope of the present embodiments may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and the present invention includes such changes and modifications.

It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that methods involved in the system and method for providing trading information in relation to a plurality of trade levels may be embodied in a computer program product that includes one or more computer readable media. For example a computer readable medium can include a readable memory device such as a hard drive device a CD ROM a DVD ROM or a computer diskette having computer readable program code segments stored thereon. The computer readable medium can also include a communications or transmission medium such as a bus or a communication link either optical wired or wireless having program code segments carried thereon as digital or analog data signals.

The claims should not be read as limited to the described order or elements unless stated to that effect. Therefore all embodiments that come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto are claimed as the invention.

