---

title: Methods and systems for automated searching
abstract: The present invention provides systems and methods for automating a search over a network such as the Internet. A user selects data such as text from within an application. The selected data is activated and a search is performed without the user having to leave the application. The search is performed while the user is continuing within the application. When the search is complete, the search results are made available to the user within the application from which the search was initiated. In one embodiment, the data is pre-searched and the results are cached such that the results are already available should the user desire. The present invention is particularly suited to integration with an operating system such that the methods of the present invention are thereby available to all applications. Alternatively, the present invention can be specific to a particular application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09135295&OS=09135295&RS=09135295
owner: LASIMER NY LLC
number: 09135295
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140211
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 327 690 filed Dec. 15 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 862 607 filed Aug. 24 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 099 436 issued Jan. 17 2012 which claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 925 646 filed Oct. 26 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 797 301 issued Sep. 14 2010 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 875 444 filed Jun. 6 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 308 439 issued Dec. 11 2007 which are all incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to computer related searches and dynamic links. More specifically the present invention relates to performing user defined searches and to creating user defined links from existing text.

The primary problem addressed by this invention relates to how searches are currently performed on the Internet an Intranet or other computer network. For example when a user desires to perform a search while working within an application such as a word processor the user must first exit the word processor and initiate a Internet browser. Once the Internet browser is opened the user first opens a particular search engine or other database. Next the user inputs the search terms into the selected search engine. The search engine then returns the search results to the user. Finally the user must extract the information returned in the search result and input that information into the current application.

This can become a tedious and very unproductive process as the user spends time going between an application and a browser in order to perform various searches. In addition the user often must perform the additional step of accessing the particular web site which may be returned in the search results. This additional step extends the process of searching the Internet for information or other data. What is needed are systems and methods for simplifying this process by allowing a user to search the Internet or other network from within an application more quickly and more easily.

The present invention provides systems and methods for automating a search over a network such as the Internet. A user selects data such as text from within an application. The selected data is activated and a search is performed without the user having to leave the application. The search is performed while the user is continuing within the application. When the search is complete the search results are made available to the user within the application from which the search was initiated. In one embodiment the data is pre searched and the results are cached such that the results are already available should the user desire. The present invention is particularly suited to integration with an operating system such that the methods of the present invention are thereby available to all applications. Alternatively the present invention can be specific to a particular application.

One embodiment of the present invention relates to allowing a user to perform searches on the Internet without having to leave the particular application within which the user is operating. A preferred method is to allow the user to dynamically create a hyperlink or a link within the application. Once this link is created the present invention provides for selecting search terms executing the search request and returning the results to the user without the user having to leave the context of the application. For example if the user is operating within a word processing program and desires to perform a search relating to some of the words within the document that is being created the first step that the user must perform is to select the words or the text that correspond to the search terms. The creation of the link in one embodiment is an inherent part of the selection of text. In other embodiments no link is created and the search terms are simply executed. The selection of this text can be done by methods currently known in the art such as highlighting the text with the mouse or keyboard commands.

Once the text has been selected the user activates the selected text which is an example of causing the search to be initiated. Frequently this can be done using a drop down menu a right click of a mouse a keyboard command or a voice command or other method. A search is then performed based on the terms that have been selected. In one embodiment after the text has been selected and activated the search is performed in the background and the user may continue to operate within the application. Once the search has been performed the search results are returned to the user. In some instances those results can be input directly into the word processing application or other application or the user has the option of previewing the results or viewing the results. The user can also store the results to a hard drive or other storage medium for later review. The present invention also has the ability to take into account the context of the document that is being created by the user. For example the present invention may examine the sentence that contains the selected word to focus the search terms that have been selected.

While the present invention has been described herein with regards to word processing applications the presentation may also be used in other situations. The present invention may be used to search documents that are saved or files that are saved in other locations. For instance a user may designate one or more files that are stored on a network storage medium to serve as the search parameters. Alternatively a user may initiate a search on a computer network for all files that contain particular words and then cause the present invention to search the Internet for information relating to those terms that have been identified by a user. The present invention may be used with text recognition applications database applications spreadsheet applications and the like.

The user may designate which search engine or Internet site is to be used for the search. Alternatively a user may designate that the search be performed on more than one search engine or that a metasearch engine be used. In other words the present invention is highly configurable by the user. The user can specify which terms are to be searched. The user is also able to specify how the search is to be performed whether it be a context based search or strictly limited to the terms or words that have been selected by the user. The user is able to indicate how the search is to be performed and where the search is to be performed. The user is also able to indicate how many results are to be returned. More simply the user is able to configure in a variety of ways how the present invention is to be utilized. User preferences may be pre set but the present invention has the ability to learn a user s preferences.

The present invention also has a look ahead feature. This look ahead feature allows the present invention to search for terms that exist in a document for example and perform a search before the user actually indicates that a search is to be performed on those terms. For instance when a brief is written various cases are cited. When the present invention is able to detect a case citation the search is automatically performed and the search results of that case citation may be provided through use of the present invention. This feature is particularly useful in a variety of situations including but not limited to attorney s writing legal documents doctors writing medical histories accountants performing numerical analysis journalists writing articles and academicians researching projects.

The present invention is not limited however to searching for text. The present invention is capable of searching for image files sound files MPEG files or other type of files that may exist and contain information that is accessible over the Internet or other networks. In one embodiment these types of searches are performed using the metadata that accompanies these types of files. For example graphic files typically have metadata that describes what the image is and these terms are able to be searched.

The present invention extends to both methods and systems for automating Internet searches. The embodiments of the present invention may comprise a special purpose or general purpose computer including various computer hardware as discussed in greater detail below.

Embodiments within the scope of the present invention also include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media can be any available media which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. When information is transferred or provided over a network or another communications connection either hardwired wireless or a combination of hardwired or wireless to a computer the computer properly views the connection as a computer readable medium. Thus any such a connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media. Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing device to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced in network computing environments with many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination of hardwired or wireless links through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a conventional computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up may be stored in ROM .

The computer may also include a magnetic hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a magnetic hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The magnetic hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer executable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . Although the exemplary environment described herein employs a magnetic hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk other types of computer readable media for storing data can be used including magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks Bernoulli cartridges RAMs ROMs and the like.

Program code means comprising one or more program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . A user may enter commands and information into the computer through keyboard pointing device or other input devices not shown such as a microphone joy stick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a serial port interface coupled to system bus . Alternatively the input devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port a game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or another display device is also connected to system bus via an interface such as video adapter . In addition to the monitor personal computers typically include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers and printers.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computers and . Remote computers and may each be another personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only memory storage devices and and their associated application programs and have been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN that are presented here by way of example and not limitation. Such networking environments are commonplace in office wide or enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer may include a modem a wireless link or other means for establishing communications over the wide area network such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing communications over wide area network may be used.

Referring to which is an exemplary flowchart of a preferred embodiment of the present invention. In step the user selects text which may be present in a document being created in a word processor. The methods and manners in which text may be selected include using a mouse or other device to select text. Text selection may be automatic programmed or learned. The present invention is not limited to text however but images or other data types may also be selected as described above. In step the text or data is activated. Activating text or data refers to providing a drop down menu to a user to select the search engine or causing the computer to initiate the search without having the user select a search engine. Activating text or data also refers to creating or providing a link that may be activated or clicked on by the user. In one embodiment the selection of text in step and the activation of text in step comprise creating a link in a user application or user document. In one embodiment the created link contains the search terms selected by a user. When the link is clicked or activated a search is performed using the terms in the link. The surrounding text or data may be used as context to focus the search in another embodiment.

In another embodiment of the present invention it is understood that it is possible to perform the search based on the link that has been created and store the results for future access by a user. This enables the user to have instant access to the search results without having to perform the search again at a later date. The results of the search may be simply stored on the users local storage medium such as a local hard drive or RAM. In step after the text has been selected and activated the search is typically performed as indicated by the configuration settings or by the user. The search may be performed on an Internet search engine or over the Internet or through various other types of databases or networks including but not limited to intranets and extranets.

In step the results of the search are returned to the user and can be displayed in a variety of manners. In other words a user or the application is capable of manipulating the results. Manipulating the search results includes but is not limited to copying at least a portion of the search results pasting at least a portion of the search results deleting at least a portion the search results saving at least a portion of the results using the search results in accordance with pre defined rules or procedures and the like. For example the results of the search may be displayed when the user mouses over the text that was previously selected. When that mouse crosses over the activated text the results can be displayed in a pop up window to a user and the user then has the ability to select which of the search results the user desires to place in the document or to read. In another embodiment the present invention may simply place the first result of the search into the document without further user input. For example if the search result is a court case citation then the citation may be placed within the text. The user then has the ability to edit this result as if it were text that the user had created. These methods are intended to be exemplary descriptions of how search results can be returned to a user and used in a document or other application. Additionally more than one portion of the text or other data may be activated. Also linked and unlinked text and data displayed by a browser are included within preferred embodiments of the present invention.

Essentially hyperlinks or links are being created where hyperlinks or links do not already exist. Links are dynamically created based on the data that is selected as well as the context of the selected data. For example the search engine that is used to perform the search for a selected word sentence paragraph image may be determined based on the context of the word. If the word aspirin is selected in a sentence page etc. that also has the word interaction in it a medical drug interaction database may be searched instead of a generic search engine.

Basically a user indicates what text is to be used in a search. This may be done in a number of ways depending on the application being executed by the user. In many instances both the operating system and a particular application are involved in the selection of text or other data. Depending on the application for example a user may highlight the text with mouse keyboard or some other way hover the cursor over the text and wherever the cursor is in some document like while doing word processing .

Once the text to search for is indicated in some fashion the user will trigger the search or activate the text. Again this can happen in several ways such as click the mouse right left middle etc. key sequence F12 etc. menu item main application menu context menu which usually comes up when the user right clicks in an application toolbar button voice command dedicated keyboard or mouse button and the like.

When the search action is initiated the search may occur immediately based on the selected text and bring up the results in a web browser or it may bring up a user interface to prompt the user for more information to fine tune the search actions being performed. For example the user may highlight a word right click to bring up the context menu or select the menu item. Once this action is performed a dialog window is displayed asking the user if they want to search based on the word the sentence the word is contained in or the paragraph the word is contained in. The user will also be presented with a list of search engines they want to use to perform the search. The list of engines to use may come from a list the user configured ahead of time a global list or a list based on the selected terms. The search may be based on the context of the selected terms. For example if the selected text or other data is a recognized medical term then a list of medical related sites are displayed. If the search terms are the name of a car then various car related web sites may be searched.

The search may be performed based on what other users with a similar profile to the current user may have used for similar terms in the past. For example using the term metal a search for users in the manufacturing industry may be performed in a metallurgical database while other a search for other users may be performed in a music database. The determination of which search engines will be displayed or used may be driven by the term and a user. Often a user ID may also be utilized in determining how the search is to be performed. One embodiment of the present invention is capable of determining how the search is to be performed while other embodiments leave the determination to other applications on the user s computer or on a remote computer.

Once the search engine s are determined or selected the search is passed into the various search engines through their standard HTML or XTML form based method of searching. In addition for search engines that may not be HTML or XTML based other methods of triggering the search can be used. For example searching for the term may occur in a company s glossary that resides in some database.

The results of the search can be displayed in the user s web browser in an embedded browser window in the triggering application or in some other custom interface that is used for displaying that search engine s results.

The present invention will interface with existing applications or operating systems via that application s API application programming interface to provide the user activated search functionality. A new set of context menu items may be added to each application. The fewer actions the user has to take to select the search term and perform the search the better. This process depends on both the application and the application s application programming interfaces APIs . One application may involve simply hovering the mouse point over a term and pressing the middle mouse button other applications may involve highlighting the search terms and then right clicking to bring up a context menu such that the appropriate menu item may be selected.

Ideally the present invention would be integrated with an operating system to provide this capability to every application on the system similar to how most applications support cut copy paste . But the present invention may also be application specific.

Some of the applications that obviously fit this functionality are web browsers e mail clients word processors spreadsheets PDF viewers and the like chat clients voice recognition systems operating systems and the like. Note that an operating system is also considered to be an application.

Searching the worldwide web need not be limited to HTML links pre defined and embedded in web pages. Instead any text can be immediately linked to a search engine or engines and effectively become a hypertext link through the present invention. The searchable text not only includes plain text in web pages but also encompasses text in any word processing program spreadsheet office suite or any other type of text.

The text to be searched can either be selected with a left double click in most applications or by dragging an inserted cursor in HTML or by shift arrows in some programs. Depending on the language structure and API of the document containing the desired text the text could be selected for searching by just hovering over the desired search terms.

For example once the text is selected a single right click brings up either a drop down menu listing search options or depending upon the API for the underlying page a detailed GUI. Either way the options available for searching are configurable. For example the default search could be on the word with a particular search engine over the entire web. Options could modify the default e.g. search the entire sentence in context search for graphic files use a metasearch engine search only news information sites search only an intra or extranet or allow complete customization on a per search basis.

The program is also intelligent in many ways. First it can read the terms to be searched in the context of either the surrounding text or of the URL from whence it came. For example if cardinal were selected as the text to be searched the intelligence would provide different search results if the text were on a sports page than it would if the text came from a bird watching page. A second type of intelligence will be learning the user s search preferences e.g. shopping v. information v. entertainment etc. . This intelligence can be both programmed in at the initial log on and or learned from repeated uses of the present invention.

A third type of intelligence would be a look ahead feature. On a HTML page or in another application the program would identify non hypertext terms likely to be searched e.g. proper nouns or depending on the users learned or entered preferences terms of art in a particular field or fields search the terms and cache the results. The results of the search could be set to appear for example as a pop up when the cursor hovered over the text.

Specialized uses include a lawyer working on a brief typing a case selecting the text and immediately being transported to a legal search engine such a Lexis or Westlaw. With the look ahead feature operational and enabled the search results would already be resident and thus the search would be instantaneous. A doctor reviewing a patient report emailed by a colleague could instantly search medical journals and or drug manufacturers for the latest information on a condition procedure or medication. On an intranet a manager doing personnel evaluations could access all information about a particular employee without leaving the word processing screen. An author writing or editing a story or book could search specialized databases for background information or details.

The present invention is not as previously described limited to text. The present invention can be used in conjunction with scanned data text recognition devices and files image files MPEG files voice commands and other user input and available data. The data may be selected activated and searched. The user is relieved of leaving an application to externally and manually execute a search. The results of the search can be stored incorporated into the specific application viewed pre viewed or otherwise handled as specified by a user.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

