---

title: Mobile cloud service architecture
abstract: Techniques are described for implementing a cloud computer system to facilitate communication between a computing device (e.g., a mobile computing device) and enterprise computer systems. In certain embodiments, the cloud computer system may receive, from a computing device, a request for a service provided by an enterprise computer system. The cloud computer system may determine security authentication of a user for the requested service. A security protocol may be determined for a requested enterprise computer system and a security token may be generated for the request according to the determined security protocol. The request may be sent to the requested enterprise computer system. In some embodiments, security authentication for a request to an enterprise computer system may be determined based on previous authentication. The cloud computer system may be configured to communicate with several different enterprise computer systems according to their supported protocols (e.g., communication protocol and/or security protocol).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09231946&OS=09231946&RS=09231946
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 09231946
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140902
---
The present application claims priority and benefit from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 937 316 filed Feb. 7 2014 entitled MOBILE CLOUD SERVICE MCS the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present disclosure relates generally to the field of computer infrastructure. Specifically presented are techniques for facilitating communication between a mobile computing device and enterprise computer systems via a cloud computer system.

Companies are striving to find ways to connect electronic mobile devices to their enterprise computer systems. This is so that on the go employees can access information remotely from where the information is stored on enterprise computer systems. Thus employees can manage their information no matter where they might be as if they were at the office. Such capabilities can allow salespeople to work from the road service technicians to look up parts while at a customer site and other employees to work from home.

Similarly some companies would like to allow end customers to access data from their enterprise computer systems which are often times implemented using back end computer systems. Such access may differentiate a company from its competitors improve the customer experience and lower costs for the company. For example certain stores can allow a customer to search store inventory for an item of merchandise. This type of self service improves the customer experience by allowing him or her to shop on his or her own terms at odd times of day as well as lowers the need for salespeople operators and other staff.

Mobile device applications commonly referred to as apps are present on many smart phones and other electronic mobile communication devices. Depending on a type of app or the type of data used by an app an app may need to connect and synchronize with different enterprise computer systems. Many enterprise computer systems may be supported by different back end computer systems which can vary for the application and the type of data. As such different back end enterprise systems may use different communication protocols and mechanisms to communicate data to devices. As such different mobile computing devices running a variety of apps may encounter challenges for communicating with different back end computer systems supporting an enterprise computer system.

In addition to the challenges in enabling communication between an app and a specific enterprise computing systems security may become a major concern in allowing access to an enterprise s internal computer system. The differences in communication protocols supported between the mobile computing devices and the enterprise computer systems may further complicate managing security access for communications between mobile computing devices and enterprise computer systems. Different mechanisms may be implemented to ensure authentication of an application to access a particular enterprise computer system according to a proprietary security protocol. Some have attempted to address such compatibility issues for security by connecting off the shelf consumer mobile devices with companies back end enterprise systems. These devices may be configured with applications or operating systems configured to connect to an enterprise s network through special portals dedicated to communicate with back end computer systems supporting an enterprise computer system.

Manufacturers of mobile devices application developers and enterprises may benefit from more flexible and robust techniques for connecting mobile devices to an enterprise s back end computer systems.

Techniques are described for implementing a cloud computer system to facilitate communication between a computing device e.g. a mobile computing device and enterprise computer systems. In certain embodiments the cloud computer system may receive from a computing device a request for a service provided by an enterprise computer system. The cloud computer system may determine security authentication of a user for the requested service. A security protocol may be determined for a requested enterprise computer system and a security token may be generated for the request according to the determined security protocol. The request may be sent to the requested enterprise computer system. In some embodiments security authentication for a request to an enterprise computer system may be determined based on previous authentication. The cloud computer system may be configured to communicate with several different enterprise computer systems according to their supported protocols e.g. communication protocol and or security protocol .

In certain embodiments the cloud computer system may provide one or more callable interfaces to receive requests from a computing device. The requests may be received according to one format e.g. a standard a style a protocol or the like supported by the callable interface. The cloud computer system may convert or translate a request to another format e.g. a standard a style a protocol or the like supported by the requested enterprise computer system. The formats may be different. In some embodiments an enterprise computer system may include an agent computing system located on premises of an enterprise. The agent computing system may be configured to communicate with the cloud computer system. The agent computing system may translate or convert and or direct requests to back end servers according to a protocol or standard supported by those back end servers.

According to at least one example techniques may be provided for facilitating communication between a mobile computing device and enterprise computer systems. Such techniques may be implemented by a computer system e.g. a cloud computer system . The computer system may include one or more processors and one or more memory devices coupled with and readable by one or more processors. For example the computing system may include a cloud server computer. The one or more memory devices may store a set of instructions which when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform the techniques disclosed herein. The techniques can include a computer implemented method. The method may include receiving by a cloud computer system from a mobile computing device a request for a service from an enterprise computer system. In certain embodiments the request received from the mobile computing device and the request sent to the enterprise computer system may conform to different representational state transfer REST architectural styles. In certain embodiments the request received from the mobile computing device includes a first hypertext transfer protocol HTTP message and wherein the request sent to the enterprise computer system includes a second HTTP message. In certain embodiments the request may include user identity information of the user. The cloud computer system may be located at a first geographical location that is different from a second geographical location of the enterprise computer system. The cloud computer system and the enterprise computer system may communicate over a public communication network. The method may further include obtaining for a user of the mobile computing device associated with the request a security authentication to obtain at least one service through the cloud computer system. The method may include sending a request to an identity management system to determine the security authentication of the user. The method may further include storing information indicating the security authentication. The method may further include identifying based on the security authentication of the user a plurality of enterprise computer systems accessible to the user through the cloud computer system. In certain embodiments at least one of the plurality of enterprise computer systems may communicate using a different security protocol than a different one of the plurality of enterprise computer systems. The method may further include verifying that the enterprise computer system is included in the plurality of enterprise computer systems accessible to the user. In certain embodiments the plurality of enterprise computer systems may include an enterprise computer system having an on premises agent system. The on premises agent system may include a plurality of server computers each server computer providing a different enterprise service. The on premises agent system may communicate with the cloud computer system over the public communication network. In certain embodiments the cloud computer system provides an application programming interface API . The API may use a first communication protocol to receive requests for services. The API may be configurable by a user of the mobile computing device. In certain embodiments the cloud computer system includes a database that stores metadata corresponding to one or more configurations of the API. Each enterprise computer system of the plurality of enterprise computer systems may use a second communication protocol to receive requests for services. The second communication protocol may be different from the first communication protocol. In certain embodiments the first communication protocol and the second communication protocol conform to a HTTP. In certain embodiments each enterprise computer system of the plurality of enterprise computer systems supports a different second communication protocol for receiving requests for services. In certain embodiments the method may include converting the request from a format of the first communication protocol to a different format corresponding to the second communication protocol. The converted request may be sent to the enterprise computer system. The method may further include determining a security protocol for requesting the service from the enterprise computer system. The method may further include generating a security token corresponding to the determined security protocol for the enterprise computer system. The security token may be generated based on the information indicating the security authentication of the user. In certain embodiments the security token may be structured in a format using Security Assertion Markup Language SAML . The method may further include sending to the enterprise computer system a request for the requested service. The request may include the generated security token. In certain embodiments the method may include receiving from the enterprise computer system a response for the requested service converting the response from the format of the second communication protocol to a format of the first communication protocol and providing the converted response to the mobile computing device. The response may have a format of the second communication protocol of the enterprise computer system.

According to at least one example a cloud computer system is provided for facilitating communication between a mobile computing device and enterprise computer systems. The cloud computer system may include one or more processors one or more memory devices coupled with and readable by the one or more processors a communication module a protocol translator and security service. The communication module may receive from a mobile computing device using a first communication protocol a request for a service where the service is provided by an enterprise computer system where the enterprise computer system is located at a first geographical location that is different from a second geographical location of the computer system and where the computer system and the enterprise computer system communicate over a public communication network. The communication module may send to the enterprise computer system the request for the service using a second communication protocol where the second communication protocol is different from the first communication protocol. The communication module may receive from the enterprise computer system via the second communication protocol a response to the request for the service. The communication module may send the received response to the mobile computing device. The protocol translator may convert the request received from the mobile computing device where the request is converted from a first format of the first communication protocol to a second format of the second communication protocol. The protocol translator may convert the response received from the enterprise computer system where the response is converted from the second format of the second communication protocol to the first format of the first communication protocol and where the converted response is sent as the response to the mobile computing device. The security service may obtain for a user of the mobile computing device associated with the request a security authentication to obtain at least one service through the cloud computer system. The security service may store information indicating the security authentication. The security service may identify based on the security authentication of the user a plurality of enterprise computer systems accessible to the user through the cloud computer system. The security service may verify that the enterprise computer system is included in the plurality of enterprise computer systems accessible to the user. The security service may determine a security protocol for requesting the service from the enterprise computer system. The security service may generate a security token corresponding to the determined security protocol for enterprise computer system where the security token is generated based on the information indicating the security authentication of the user and where the generated security token is included in the request sent to the enterprise computer system.

According to at least one example a cloud computer system is provided to facilitate communication between a mobile computing device and an on premises enterprise computer system. The cloud computer system may include a cloud computer device configured to receive through an application programming interface API from a mobile computing device HTTP messages conforming to a first architectural style and generate and send to the agent HTTP messages conforming to a second architectural style. The cloud computer system may include a firewall connected with the cloud computer device where an internal network and an external network are separated by the firewall and where the firewall is configured to permit communication of HTTP messages conforming to the first architectural style between the mobile computing device and the cloud computing device and permit communication of HTTP messages conforming to the second architectural style between the cloud computer device and the agent. The cloud computer system may include a metadata repository connected with the cloud computer device where the metadata repository is configured to store metadata for implementing the API the implementing including translating between the first architectural style and the second architectural style and where the metadata repository is modifiable by an authenticated user via the external network.

This summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used in isolation to determine the scope of the claimed subject matter. The subject matter should be understood by reference to appropriate portions of the entire specification of this patent any or all drawings and each claim.

The following detailed description together with the accompanying drawings will provide a better understanding of the nature and advantages of the present invention.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without some of these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form.

Specific details are given in the following description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits systems networks processes and other components may be shown as components in block diagram form in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that individual embodiments may be described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in a figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination can correspond to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

The term machine readable storage medium includes but is not limited to portable or non portable storage devices optical storage devices and various other mediums capable of storing containing or carrying instruction s and or data. A machine readable medium may include a non transitory medium in which data can be stored and that does not include carrier waves and or transitory electronic signals propagating wirelessly or over wired connections. Examples of a non transitory medium may include but are not limited to a magnetic disk or tape optical storage media such as compact disk CD or digital versatile disk DVD flash memory memory or memory devices. A computer program product may include code and or machine executable instructions that may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks e.g. a computer program product may be stored in a machine readable medium. A processor s may perform the necessary tasks.

Systems depicted in some of the figures may be provided in various configurations. In some embodiments the systems may be configured as a distributed system where one or more components of the system are distributed across one or more networks in a cloud computer system.

Techniques are described for implementing a cloud computer system to facilitate communication between a computing device e.g. a mobile computing device and enterprise computer systems. In certain embodiments the cloud computer system may receive from a computing device a request for a service provided by an enterprise computer system. The cloud computer system may determine security authentication of a user for the requested service. A security protocol may be determined for a requested enterprise computer system and a security token may be generated for the request according to the determined security protocol. The request may be sent to the requested enterprise computer system. In some embodiments security authentication for a request to an enterprise computer system may be determined based on previous authentication. The cloud computer system may be configured to communicate with several different enterprise computer systems according to their supported protocols e.g. communication protocol and or security protocol .

In certain embodiments the cloud computer system may provide one or more callable interfaces to receive requests from a computing device. The requests may be received according to one format e.g. a standard a style a protocol or the like supported by the callable interface. The cloud computer system may convert or translate a request to another format e.g. a standard a style a protocol or the like supported by the requested enterprise computer system. The formats may be different. In some embodiments an enterprise computer system may include an agent computing system located on premises of an enterprise. The agent computing system may be configured to communicate with the cloud computer system. The agent computing system may translate or convert and or direct requests to back end servers according to a protocol or standard supported by those back end servers.

Messages may include service invocation messages result messages request messages other messages communicated internally other messages communicated between a computing device and an enterprise computer system or combinations thereof. A message may include a message type e.g. a type value from a set of shared type constants a correlation id e.g. an id used to correlate this message with one or more other messages priority information to support for priority based message queues timeout sensitivity indicator to support message data isolation message source e.g. a uniform resource identifier of a sender a message destination e.g. a uniform resource identifier that uniquely identifies the destination a request context e.g. request information from dispatcher and or a message payload. The payload may have different attributes depending upon the type of message that is being sent such as parameter data and result data.

Enterprise data as described herein may include data received from an enterprise computer system data sent to an enterprise computer system data processed by an enterprise computer system or combinations thereof. The enterprise data may be distinguishable from data for consumer applications and or services. In some embodiments for example enterprise data may change based on application or use of the enterprise data whereas data for consumer applications e.g. consumer data may remain static through use. In certain embodiments enterprise data may include or be associated with rules that indicate criteria for storing using and or managing the enterprise data. For example enterprise data may be associated with policy information that indicates one or more policies for storing using and or managing the enterprise data. In certain embodiments policy information may be included in enterprise data. In certain embodiments enterprise data may include data processed stored used or communicated by an application or a service executing in an enterprise computer system. For example enterprise data may include business data e.g. business objects such as JSON JavaScript Object Notation formatted data from enterprise applications structured data e.g. key value pairs unstructured data e.g. internal data processed or used by an application data in JSON format social posts conversation streams activity feeds etc. binary large objects BLOBs documents system folders e.g. application related folders in a sandbox environment data using representational state transfer REST techniques referred to herein as RESTful data e.g. synchronization data made available by REST endpoints system data configuration data synchronization data or combinations thereof. In some embodiments enterprise data may include REST formatted enterprise data. REST formatted enterprise data may include RESTful data. REST formatted data may include data formatted according to REST techniques implemented by an enterprise computer system. Configuration or synchronization data may include data used for synchronization of enterprise data such as versions history integration data etc. Documents in enterprise data may include extended markup language XML files visual assets configuration files media assets etc. A BLOB may include a collection of binary data stored as a single entity in a database management system such as an image multimedia object or executable code or as otherwise known in the art.

An enterprise computer system may include various computing systems that are configured to operate for an entity or an enterprise. For example an enterprise computer system may include one or more computer systems such as an enterprise server computer e.g. a back end server computer to handle requests for services. An enterprise computer system may include applications and or services which can process and or operate using enterprise data. For example enterprise computer system may provide one or more services and or applications for managing or operating an enterprise. Services may include without restriction customer relationship management CRM human capital management HCM human resource HR management supply chain management enterprise communication email communication business services other enterprise management services or applications or combinations thereof. Enterprise computer system may include one or more computer systems dedicated to providing one or more services. In some embodiments each different computer system providing a service may be located on premise of an enterprise or may be located remotely from an enterprise. In some embodiments multiple different computer systems supporting different services may be situated in a single geographical location such as on premises of an enterprise. In the example shown in on premises enterprise computer system may include an HR system and a CRM system both of which may be located on premises of an enterprise. In some embodiments enterprise computer system may include or implement an agent system to facilitate or handle communication between cloud computer system and one or more enterprise systems . Enterprise computer systems such as cloud enterprise computer system and on premises enterprise computer system are described below in further detail.

The computer environment may include a mobile cloud service MCS implemented to operate as a secure intermediary computing environment that may facilitate communication between the computing device and one or more enterprise computer systems because computing device may not be configured to communicate with such enterprise computer systems. For example some enterprise computer systems may be supported by legacy or back end computer systems. Such systems may be configured to operate using different communication and or security protocols. The protocols supported by such enterprise computer systems may be different from those supported by mobile computing devices. MCS may support communication with different types of mobile computing devices. As such MCS may implement techniques to facilitate communication between enterprise computer systems and mobile computing devices to enable them to communicate with each other despite their incompatibilities in communication such as differences between formats or communication protocols. For example MCS may translate communication protocols between mobile computing devices and enterprise computer systems.

Cloud computer system may support MCS . Cloud computer system may be implemented using hardware software firmware or combinations thereof. For example cloud computer system may include one or more computing devices such as a server computer. Cloud computer system may include one or more memory storage devices and one or more processors. A memory storage device can be accessible to the processor s and can include instructions stored thereon which when executed by the processor s cause the processor s to implement one or more operations disclosed herein. In some embodiments the memory storage devices may operate as local storage e.g. cache . Cloud computer system may include different kinds of operating systems. A memory storage device may be accessible to the processor s and may include instructions stored thereon which when executed by the processor s cause the processor s to implement one or more operations methods or processes disclosed herein. The memory storage may operate as local storage. Local storage may be implemented using any type of persistent storage device such as a memory storage device or other computer readable storage medium. In some embodiments local storage may include or implement one or more databases e.g. a document database a relational database or other type of database one or more file stores one or more file systems or combinations thereof. The local storage may store enterprise data.

In certain embodiments cloud computer system may include one or more data stores such as a metadata repository diagnostics store and an analytics store . The data stores may be accessible by any component in cloud computer system .

Metadata repository may store all the metadata associated with MCS . This information may be composed of both run time and design time data each having their own requirements on availability and performance. A tenant or subscriber of MCS may have any number of applications. Each application may be versioned and may have an associated zero or more versioned resource APIs and zero or more versioned services implementations those resource application programming interface API contracts. These entities are what the run time uses to map virtual requests mAPIs to the concrete service implementation service . This mapping provides a mobile developer with the luxury of not having to know the actual implementation service when she designs and builds her application. As well as not requiring her to have to republish a new application on every service bug fix. Metadata repository may store one or more callable interfaces which may be invoked by a computing device e.g. computing device . The callable interfaces may be customizable by a user e.g. a developer of an application to facilitate communication with MCS . Metadata repository may store metadata corresponding to one or more configurations of a callable interface. Metadata repository may be configured to store metadata for implementing a callable interface. The callable interface may be implemented to translate between a one format protocol or architectural style for communication and another format protocol or architectural style for communication. Metadata repository may be modifiable by an authenticated user via the external network.

Diagnostics store may store diagnostics information about processing occurring in MCS . Diagnostics store may store messages communicated via MCS and log information. Analytics store may store logging and analytics data captured during processing in the system.

On behalf of MCS cloud computer system may utilize its computing resources to enable execution of custom code e.g. operations applications methods functions routines or the like . Computing resources may be allocated for use with respect to a particular user associated as a subscriber or tenant to MCS . Resources may be allocated with respect to a user a device an application or other criterion related to a subscriber. MCS may be scaled in or out depending on the demand of mobile computing devices seeking to communicate with enterprise computer systems. MCS can be configured such that it is elastic to handle surges and temporary periods of higher than normal traffic between mobile computing devices and enterprise computer systems. In some embodiments MCS may include elements that support scalability such that components may be added or replaced to satisfy demand in communication.

Computing device may communicate e.g. send a request message with MCS to request service provided by an enterprise computer system. Computing device e.g. a mobile computing device may be implemented using hardware firmware software or combinations thereof. Computing device may communicate with enterprise computer systems via MCS . Computing device may include or may be implemented as an endpoint device a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet computer a laptop computer a mobile computing device a desktop computer a wearable computer a pager etc. Computing device may include one or more memory storage devices and one or more processors. Computing device may include different kinds of operating systems. A memory storage device may be accessible to the processor s and may include instructions stored thereon which when executed by the processor s cause the processor s to implement one or more operations methods or processes disclosed herein. The memory storage may operate as local storage. Local storage may be implemented using any type of persistent storage device such as a memory storage device or other computer readable storage medium. In some embodiments local storage may include or implement one or more databases e.g. a document database a relational database or other type of database one or more file stores one or more file systems or combinations thereof. The local storage may store enterprise data.

In various embodiments computing device may be configured to execute and operate one or more applications such as a web browser a client application a proprietary client application or the like. The applications can include specific applications configured for enterprise data and or services provided by an enterprise computer system. Client applications may be accessible or operated via one or more network s . Applications may include a graphical user interface GUI for operating the application.

Computing device may communicate with MCS via one or more communication networks using wireless communication. Examples of communication networks may include a mobile network a wireless network a cellular network a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN other wireless communication networks or combinations thereof. In certain embodiments computing device may establish a communication connection with MCS using a custom communication protocol e.g. a custom protocol . Connection may be established with MCS through cloud computer system . The custom protocol may be an HTTP based protocol. By utilizing a custom communication protocol computing device may operate on any computing device platform to communicate with cloud computer system .

Computing device may communicate with cloud computer system through one or more callable interfaces e.g. application programming interfaces APIs . A callable interface may be implemented on computing device . The callable interface may be implemented for custom applications that enable those applications to communicate with MCS . In some embodiments a callable interface may be developed for MCS . The callable interface may enable applications to communicate with MCS without having to adapt to differences in protocols e.g. communication or development protocols and or architectural styles or formats.

MCS may be protected by one or more firewalls to provide a secure environment to process requests and execute custom code . Communication between computing device and MCS may be separated by an external communication firewall . Firewall may be connected with cloud computer system to facilitate secure access to MCS . Firewall may permit communication of messages between cloud computer system and computing devices e.g. computing device . Such messages e.g. HTTP messages or REST messages may conform to a communication protocol e.g. HTTP or REST which may be supported by a callable interface. In another example a message between cloud computer system and computing device may conform to a communication protocol such as Speedy SPDY . MCS may manage firewall to secure communication between cloud computer system and enterprise computer systems . Firewall may permit communication of messages between cloud computer system and computing devices e.g. computing device . Such messages e.g. SPDY messages HTTP messages or REST messages may conform to a communication protocol e.g. SPDY HTTP or REST . Communication between computing device and enterprise computer systems may be two way via MCS .

Because communication with computing device and enterprise computer systems may occur via an unsecure public network firewalls provide an added layer of protection for communications to and from MCS . Firewalls may enable MCS to distinguish its internal network from an external network connecting computing device and enterprise computer systems . In some embodiments firewalls although shown as two distinct firewalls may be implemented as a single firewall that encapsulates MCS .

Cloud computer system may further operate as an intermediary computing environment by communicating with enterprise computer systems some of which may have different communication protocols. Such communication protocols may be custom or specific to an application or service in communication with cloud computer system . Further cloud computer system may communicate with an enterprise computer system to provide enterprise services and or to exchange enterprise data according to a format supported by the enterprise computer system. Cloud computer system may maintain local storage e.g. local cache of enterprise data and may use the local storage to manage synchronization of the enterprise data between mobile computing devices and enterprise computer systems .

Computing device may communicate e.g. send a request message with MCS to request service provided by an enterprise computer system. Requests that are received through firewall may be processed first by security service . Security service may manage security authentication for a user associated with a request. Thus a cloud computer system may provide technical advantages that include providing security mechanisms described herein which may protect the integrity of customer communications and enterprise data. Technical advantages of cloud computer system may include preventing or reducing compromised communications and or data from being compromised authentication may occur initially restricting access to only those who have the required credentials. Technical advantages of cloud computer system may include the services and service invocation flow being structured such that as requests come in they may only be able to access services for which they are authorized. By decoupling authorization from the rest of the system processing another technical advantage may include the task of authorizing what can be done by whom being delegated to a dedicated provisioned security subsystem e.g. an identity management system that may be expanded to support whatever additional custom security measures are required by a specific corporate customer. In some embodiments security authentication may be determined for a request a session a user a device other criterion related to the user or combinations thereof. Security authentication may be performed for each request that is received. In some embodiments security service may determine authentication based on a previous verification of a request. Security authentication may be determined for a user or a device such that requests to different enterprise computer systems may be authenticated based on a single verification of security.

Further technical advantages of the invention may include a cloud computer system enabling a computing device to communicate with various enterprise computer systems some of which may be implemented differently. For example a computing device cloud computer system and enterprise computer system may be located at different geographical locations physically separated from each other. Therefore computing device can communicate with enterprise computer system regardless of their location. Technical advantages may include a cloud computer system enabling a computing device to communicate requests for services to enterprise computer systems which may support one or more distinct security protocols. In some cases an enterprise computer system may be supported by a back end system that is not easily adaptable to a different security protocol. In some cases it may be desirable for developers of applications to be able to implement an application to be able to request services without knowledge of such security protocols. It may be equally desirable for a user e.g. an administrator or an architect of an enterprise computer system to be able to receive requests without accommodating for different types of applications security protocols and standards. Technical advantages may enable such desires to be met by implementation of a cloud computer system as described herein which can handle security authentication such that requests can meet the security measures of different enterprise computer systems that are being requested.

In some embodiments security service may determine a security protocol for a requested enterprise computer system and accordingly generate a security token according to such security protocol. The security token may be passed along with a request to an enterprise computer system to enable that enterprise computer system to verify authentication based on the generated security token. Enterprise computer systems may support different security protocols. A security protocol may be a standard by which security is determined. Security may be verified based on a security token that is generated by security service . Security service may determine a security protocol for an enterprise computer system identified for a request. In some embodiments an enterprise computer system may have an agent system which may be configured or implemented according to a custom or specific security protocol supported by MCS . As such MCS may generate a security token according to such custom security protocol. Security service is described below with reference to .

Cloud computer system may include implement and or communicate with one or more load balancer systems . Upon determining security authentication cloud computer system may request any one of load balancer systems to examine a request that it receives and to detect which service the request is directed to. MCS may be configured with load balancers and updated with resources that get started up so that when a request comes in load balancers can balance a requested load across the different resources.

Cloud computer system may include a dispatcher that may handle requests and dispatch them to the appropriate service. A request may be routed to an appropriate service upon dispatch. In some embodiments a service itself may route an internal request to another internal service in MCS or in an enterprise computer system. In some embodiments dispatcher may resolve a request to determine its destination based on a location e.g. an address of a destination identified in a uniform resource identifier URI and or a uniform resource locator URL of the request. Dispatcher may parse a request and its header to extract one or more of the following information tenant identifier service identifier application name application version request resource operation and parameters etc. Dispatcher can use the parsed information to perform a lookup in metadata repository . Dispatcher may retrieve a corresponding application metadata. Dispatcher may determine the target service based on the requested resource and the mappings in the metadata. While initially a very basic mapping the metadata can be enhanced to provide for more sophisticated rules based dispatching. Dispatcher may perform any dispatcher specific logging metrics gathering etc. Dispatcher may then perform initial authorization according to the application metadata. Dispatcher may format the inbound request and any other necessary information and place the message on routing bus for further processing. Dispatcher may place a request on a queue and await the corresponding response. Dispatcher may process responses received from routing bus and return a response to computing device .

In addition to handling the dispatching for external requests dispatcher may also play a role in dispatching internal requests. Such internal requests can come in the form of composite services or custom code invocations to services. In both cases the caller could use a logical service name as defined within the application. Dispatcher may use the current execution context to determine the application and use that logical name to determine the appropriate service to invoke.

Cloud computer system may include a routing bus to manage deliver of messages to destinations registered with routing bus . Routing bus may operate as a central system for managing communications in cloud service . Data communicated through routing bus may be processed to capture and store the data. Routing bus may provide a framework so that additional centralized services additional authorization debugging etc. can be plugged in easily as necessary. Data captured by routing bus may be stored in diagnostics store and or analytics store .

Routing bus may route messages to one or more destinations. In some embodiments a message may include a request to execute custom code . In such embodiments routing bus may request custom code to be invoked. In some embodiments routing bus may pass on a request to a destination enterprise computer system identified by information in a request. Routing bus may request an adaptor interface to perform translations if necessary to pass a request to an enterprise computer system e.g. enterprise computer system or enterprise computer system .

In certain embodiments cloud computer system may include or implement adaptor interface to translate or convert a message to a protocol supported by a receiving enterprise computer system. Adaptor interface may establish separate communication connections with each of enterprise computer systems . Cloud computer system may be configured to communicate with enterprise computer systems via one or more networks not shown . Examples of communication networks may include the Internet a mobile network a public network a wireless network a cellular network a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN other communication networks or combinations thereof. In certain embodiments communication connections may be high speed communication connections facilitated using high speed communication trunks. Communication with an enterprise computer system may pass through firewall which ensures that communication with an external network is secure to prevent unauthorized access to MCS via such communications.

In some embodiments cloud computer system may facilitate notifications to a user of computing device . Cloud computer system may include an alert management service that supports stateful interaction with a user for example to deliver an alert based on user preferences through one or more channels wait for a response and take action based on the response. Responses to an alert sent on one channel may be received through another channel which the service needs to be able to handle. The platform may come with built in state models for popular interaction patterns and be extensible with new state models. Some alert channels may include known communication resources either one way or two way. Examples include SMS Twitter push notifications and Google Cloud Messaging .

In some embodiments cloud computer system may enable computing device to access and or request one or more services such as an object store service database service access web services social services resource services or combinations thereof.

Cloud computer system may provide an object store service that may provide a storage facility for BLOBs. The basic unit of storage can be text with read and write operations. A basic query facility for JSON objects may also be offered.

Cloud computer system may provide a database service to allow for connectivity to hosted databases for performing queries or writes. Required parameterization may require the full connection string for the database the SQL string or stored procedure to execute any parameters and possibly credentials. The necessary information can be provided at run time or be pre configured in the application metadata.

Cloud computer system may provide access to web services such as Simple Access Object Protocol SOAP web services. Cloud computer system may provide access to REST services such as connectivity to arbitrary REST resources.

Cloud computer system may provide access to social services that may provide basic integration with many of the popular social sites such as Facebook Twitter etc. These services may allow for third party authentication using the user s credentials from those sites as well as access to their services. Examples include sending a tweet or updating your status.

Cloud computer system may provide an public cloud service to enable a user to simplify and optimize communication. For example a service developer may use the generic web service of MCS to talk to a resource hosted using cloud computer system s cloud service.

A cloud computer system such as one described herein may enable mobile computing devices to communicate with enterprise computer system despite differences in computing resources. A cloud computer system may be equipped with more resources and a faster more reliable connection to enterprise computer systems to communicate frequently to receive enterprise data. The cloud computer system may manage and coordinate requests for services from enterprise computer systems. By translating requests to a protocol supported by a recipient of a message the cloud computer system reduces a burden on developers to configure applications for communication with different types of back end computer systems. Enterprises are able to maintain their back end systems without having to accommodate advances or changes in communication protocols supported for mobile devices. Different enterprise computer systems may support different security protocols based on a type of requests processed and services provided. By managing security authentication in a centralized manner for access to different enterprise computer systems enterprise computer systems do not need to adapt to differences in security protocols. By authenticating a user of the cloud computer system processing requests can become more efficient as authentication may not be performed in every instance.

Now turning to a block diagram is shown of a computing environment that may facilitate communication between a mobile computing device and enterprise computer systems according to some embodiments of the present invention. Computing environment may include cloud computer system . In certain embodiments cloud computer system may be implemented as one or more functional blocks or modules configured to perform various operations for facilitating communication between computing devices e.g. mobile computing device and mobile computing device and enterprise computer systems e.g. enterprise computer system and enterprise computer system . Cloud computer system may include communication module callable interface security service dispatcher routing bus and protocol translator .

Cloud computer system may include one or more memory storage devices local storage such as cache . Cache may be used to store enterprise data and authentication information . Enterprise data may be received from enterprise computer systems or from mobile computing devices or may include enterprise data converted by cloud computer system or combinations thereof. Authentication information may be received from an identity management system and or generated by cloud computer system . In some embodiments authentication information may include information indicating security authentication of a user with regard to a request for a service.

Communication module may be configured to manage communications between cloud computer system and multiple enterprise computer systems e.g. enterprise computer systems . To facilitate communication communication module may be equipped with hardware to enable communication such as a receiver and a transmitter or a combination thereof.

Enterprise computer systems such as enterprise computer systems may be physically located beyond a firewall e.g. firewall of cloud computer system at a different geographic location e.g. remote geographic location than cloud computer system . In some embodiments enterprise computer system may be different from enterprise computer system . In some embodiments enterprise computer system and enterprise computer system may be part of a single computer system. Each of enterprise computer systems may communicate with cloud computer system using a different communication protocols. Enterprise computer system and enterprise computer system may support the same or different security protocols. In some embodiments enterprise computer system and or enterprise computer system may be implemented as enterprise computer system which may include an agent system e.g. agent system to handle communication with multiple enterprise computer systems. In some embodiments communication module may be configured to send and receive communications through a firewall such as firewall and or firewall .

In certain embodiments one or more of enterprise computer systems may communicate with cloud computer system using one or more different protocols. A protocol may include a communication protocol such as SPDY. A protocol may include an application protocol such as an HTTP based protocol. In some embodiments enterprise computer systems may communicate with cloud computer system using a REST or SOAP communication protocols. For example REST protocol may support a formats including URI or URL. Enterprise Data formatted for communication using REST protocol may be easily converted to data formats such as JSON comma separated values CSV and really simple syndication RSS . Enterprise computer systems and cloud computer system may communicate using other protocols such as remote procedure calls RPC e.g. XML RPC .

In some embodiments cloud computer system and enterprise computer systems may communicate using communication connections that support high speed communication. Communication module may maintain high speed communication connections which may enable cloud computer system to maintain on going and multiple communications with enterprise computer systems for managing and or synchronizing communication to exchange enterprise data or deliver requested services. The high speed communication connections may afford cloud computer system the ability to handle multiple communications with enterprise computer systems to fully synchronize enterprise data whereas a mobile computing device may be limited in bandwidth of a wireless communication connection to constantly receive enterprise data. The communication connection between cloud computer system and an enterprise computer system may be reliable such that cloud computer system may receive and send communications to synchronize enterprise data with little or no interruption.

In some embodiments communication module may include an adaptor interface configured to support communication with enterprise computer systems some of which may support different protocols or techniques for communications. Adaptor interface may include one or more adaptors e.g. adaptor or adaptor each of which may be configured to communicate according to a communication protocol a type of enterprise computer system a type of application a type of service or combinations thereof. A communication protocol supported by an adaptor may be specific to one or more enterprise computer systems. For example communication module may include an adaptor configured for communication with enterprise computer system using a specific protocol supported by enterprise computer system . In another example communication module may include an adaptor configured for communication with enterprise computer system using a specific protocol supported by enterprise computer system . Adaptor interface may establish separate communication connections with each of enterprise computer systems . In some embodiments adaptor interface may be configured to communicate with an agent system e.g. agent system which may be included or implemented by an enterprise computer system. An adaptor in adaptor interface may be configured to communicate according to a custom protocol used for communication with an agent system. The custom protocol may be specific to a type of agent system or an enterprise computer system in which an agent system supports. The adaptor interface may reduce or eliminate a need for an app e.g. app or app to be developed specifically to support communication with a particular enterprise computer system.

Cloud computer system may use communication module to communicate with mobile computing devices e.g. mobile computing devices . Mobile computing devices may be situated in a different geographical location than cloud computer system . For example mobile computing devices may be physically located beyond a firewall e.g. firewall of cloud computer system at a different geographic location e.g. remote geographic location than cloud computer system . Each of mobile computing devices may communicate with cloud computer system using a different communication protocol. In certain embodiments one or more of mobile computing devices may communicate with cloud computer system using one or more different protocols. A protocol may include a communication protocol such as SPDY. A protocol may include an application protocol such as an HTTP based protocol. In some embodiments communication module may communicate with mobile computing devices using a custom communication protocol. The custom communication protocol may be an HTTP based communication protocol. The communication protocol used for communication between mobile computing devices may support communication of enterprise data structured in different formats e.g. JSON format which may be easily readable by mobile computing devices and cloud computer system .

In certain embodiments mobile computing devices may each implement an application an app that can provide specific user interfaces to communicate with cloud computer system . A specific UI may be configured to communicate using a specific communication protocol. In some embodiments specific UIs may include callable interfaces functions routines methods and or operations that may be invoked to communicate with cloud computer system . Specific UIs may accept as input parameters for communicating with enterprise computer systems for enterprise data and or to request a service. In some embodiments communication through apps may be converted for communication using a custom communication protocol. In certain embodiments specific UIs may be included or implemented by synchronization manager . In some embodiments specific UIs may correspond to a custom client in an application.

Cloud computer system may include one or more callable interfaces e.g. an application programming interface API . Callable interface may enable an app on a mobile computing device to communicate requests to MCS . Callable interface may support a common or standard interface which may allow requests including their parameters to be received from apps according to a standardized protocol architectural style and or format e.g. a REST protocol . Callable interface may be configurable by a user of any one of computing devices . Callable interface may receive requests for services according to a communication protocol. For example callable interface may be a REST API that supports requests according to a REST protocol. In some embodiments callable interface may receive messages from mobile computing devices. Callable interface may be configured to translate or convert messages received from mobile computing devices according to a format supported by callable interface . Device application developers can connect to MCS for their custom applications. In some embodiments a callable interface may be configured by the same person that develops an app such that the person can implement a custom app to communicate with MCS .

Callable interface may enable enterprise computer systems to communicate with MCS according to a standardized protocol or format. Similar to application developers those who manage enterprise computer systems can implement code e.g. an agent system that is configured to communicate with MCS via callable interface . Callable interfaces may be implemented based on a type of a computing device a type of enterprise computer systems an app an agent system a service a protocol or other criterion. In some embodiments callable interface may support requests for services including authentication compression encryption pagination with cursors client based throttling non repudiation logging and metrics collection. In some embodiments callable interface may be implemented for custom business related services such as authentication policy enforcement caching of responses throttling of calls to MCS translation between asynchronous and synchronous patterns logging of calls to underlying services or combinations thereof. In some embodiments callable interface may enable users to load custom code e.g. custom code for implementation by cloud computer system . The custom code may implement one or more callable interfaces for cloud computer system which can enable users to access custom services.

Protocol translator may process a message to determine a communication protocol for a message and or to convert a message to a communication protocol for a destination. Protocol translator may convert a request received from mobile computing devices . The request may be converted from a format of a communication protocol supported by computing device to a format of a communication protocol supported by enterprise computer system . Protocol translator may convert a response received from enterprise computer system . A response may be converted from a format of a communication protocol supported by enterprise computer system to a format of a communication protocol supported by mobile computing device . In some embodiments all or some of the operations performed by protocol translator may be implemented in callable interface and or adaptor interface .

Security service may manage security authentication for requests received from any of mobile computing devices . As explained earlier security service may protect the integrity of customer processes and enterprise data. To prevent the system from being compromised security authentication may occur when a request is received from mobile computing device . Security authentication may be performed before a request is dispatched for processing by cloud computer system . The security authentication determined for a user may enable a user associated with a mobile computing device to have authorization to request services via MCS . The security authentication may reduce efforts for a user to authenticate for different requests and or services requested via MCS . Security service may be implemented as one or more functional blocks or modules configured to perform various operations authenticating security of a request. Security service may include authentication manager security protocol determiner and security token generator .

Authentication manager may manage security authentication for requests received from mobile computing devices . Authentication manager may determine security authentication for a user associated with a computing device that sends a request to MCS . Security authentication may be determined based on a time period which may be tied to operation of an app e.g. launching an app a request a computing device an enterprise computer system other criterion related to a request or combinations thereof. Security authentication may be verified and granted for any one of the following such as an individual request one or more enterprise computer systems a particular service a type of service a user a computing device other criterion for determining security authentication or combinations thereof. In some embodiments cloud computer system may store authentication information of users received from enterprise computer systems or authentication systems supporting enterprise computer systems. Cloud computer system may determine authentication by performing a lookup function to determine whether an identity of a user associated with a request has authority to make such a request. The stored authentication information may include information such as the type of requests functions enterprise computer systems enterprise data or the like that a user may be authorized to access. In some embodiments cloud computer system may initiate communication with a requesting computing device to determine authentication. Authentication manager may store security authentication information e.g. authentication information in cache .

In some embodiments security authentication may be determined based on a role associated with a user requesting a service. The role may be associated with a user requesting access to MCS . In some embodiments a user may request services as a subscriber or tenant of MCS who may be granted access to resources and or services provided by MCS . Authentication may correspond to a user s subscription to MCS such that a user may be authorized to request services via MCS as a subscriber. In some embodiments The subscription may be limited to a particular set of resources provided by MCS . Security authentication may be based on the resources and or services accessible to the user of the MCS . In some embodiments a request may be provisioned a template during execution called a runtime environment. The runtime environment may be associated with resources that are allocated for a request a user or a device.

In some embodiments authentication manager may request an identity management system to determine security authentication for the user. The identity management system may be implemented by cloud computer system or by another computer system that is external to cloud computer system . The identity management system may determine security authentication of the user based on the user s role or subscription for accessing MCS . The role or subscription may be assigned privileges and or entitlements with respect to an enterprise computer system a service provided by an enterprise computer system a function or feature of an enterprise computer system other criterion for controlling access to an enterprise computer system or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments authentication manager may determine whether a user associated with a request has been authenticated to access a particular enterprise computer system for the request. Authentication manager may determine whether a requested enterprise computer system is one of the enterprise computer systems accessible to the user.

Security protocol determiner may determine a security protocol for requesting services from an enterprise computer system. Cloud computer system may store security protocol information that indicates a security protocol for different enterprise computer systems accessible to cloud computer system . In some embodiments the security protocol information may indicate one or more criteria for selecting a security protocol. Such criteria may include a type of enterprise computer system a type of request a type of requestor type of communication connection other criterion related to a communication connection between cloud computer system and a requested enterprise computer system or combinations thereof. In some embodiments a request may include information used for determining the security authentication of the user and or the security authentication of the user. Cloud computer system may store information indicating one or more security protocols e.g. a protocol based on SAML . Security protocol determiner may perform a lookup operation to determine a security protocol for an enterprise computer system.

Security token generator may generate a security token based on security authentication of a user associated with a request. The security token may include security authentication including a level of access services that can be accessed and or other identifying information about a user associated with the security authentication. The security token may be included in a request that is sent to an enterprise computer system to enable the enterprise computer system to verify authentication of a user. The security token may be generated according to a security protocol determined for a requested enterprise computer system.

Now turning to a sequence diagram is shown of a process for facilitating communication between one or more computing devices e.g. computing device and one or more enterprise computer systems e.g. enterprise computer system according to some embodiments of the present invention. Communication between computing device and enterprise computer system may be facilitated by a cloud computer system e.g. cloud computer system . In some embodiments computing device cloud computer system and enterprise computer system may be located at different geographical locations physically separated from each other. Therefore computing device can communicate with enterprise computer system regardless of their location. As explained in further detail below cloud computer system can enable computing device to communicate requests for services to enterprise computer systems which may support one or more distinct security protocols. In some cases an enterprise computer system may be supported by a back end system that is not easily adaptable to a different security protocol. In some cases it may be desirable for developers of applications to be able to implement an application to be able to request services without knowledge of such security protocols. It may be equally desirable for a user e.g. an administrator or an architect of an enterprise computer system to be able to receive requests without accommodating for different types of applications security protocols and standards. Process can enable such desires to be met by implementation of cloud computer system which can handle security authentication such that requests can meet the security measures of different enterprise computer systems which may be requested.

To beginning process computing device may send enterprise data to cloud computer system . The enterprise data may include a request for a service from an enterprise computer system such as enterprise computer system . The enterprise data may be sent for communication to the enterprise computer system. In some embodiments enterprise data may include multiple requests. Each request may be for the same or a different service. Each requested service may be provided by the same or enterprise computer systems. The enterprise data may include authentication information such as user identification information credentials account information or the like some or all of which may be useful for determining security authenticating of a user associated with computing device . The enterprise data may include authentication information when a request is sent for the first time to cloud computer system and or enterprise computer system . In some embodiments enterprise data may include information identifying a requested service and one or more enterprise computer systems that can provide the requested service. Communication between computing device and cloud computer system may be facilitated by use of custom communication protocol .

Process may include cloud computer system receiving enterprise data . Communication of data may be received through firewall which may provide security to protect internal resources of cloud computer system . Cloud computer system may include security service routing bus and adaptor interface .

Process may include security service performing one or more operations for enterprise data . Security service may initially process a request to determine authentication of a user before further processing is performed. Cloud computer system may store enterprise data in local storage e.g. cache of cloud computer system . One operation may include determining security authentication for a request for services included in enterprise data . Security authentication may be determined for a user associated with computing device . Different types of security authentication may be performed. Security authentication may be determined for any one of the following such as an individual request one or more enterprise computer systems a particular service a type of service a user a computing device other criterion for determining security authentication or combinations thereof. In some embodiments security authentication may be determined based on a role associated with a user. Cloud computer system may include determining an enterprise computer system to provide the requested service. In some embodiments enterprise data may indicate an enterprise computer system. Another operation may include determining whether the security authentication is being determined for the enterprise computer system identified by the request from the user. An operation may include security service storing in cloud computer system information indicating the security authentication.

In some embodiments security service may request an identity management system to determine security authentication for the user. The identity management system may be implemented by cloud computer system . The identity management system may be implemented by another computer system that is external to cloud computer system . The identity management system may determine security authentication of the user based on a role associated with the user when submitting the request. The role may be assigned privileges and or entitlements with respect to an enterprise computer system a service provided by an enterprise computer system a function or feature of an enterprise computer system other criterion for controlling access to an enterprise computer system or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments an operation performed by security service may include identifying enterprise computer systems accessible to a user through cloud computer system . The enterprise computer systems may be identified by processing security authentication. To determine whether the user has security authentication to request a service from enterprise computer system process may include security service verifying that a requested enterprise computer system is included in the enterprise computer systems identified as being accessible to a user.

Security service may perform an operation to determine a security protocol for requesting services from a requested enterprise computer system e.g. enterprise computer system . In some embodiments a request may include information used for determining the security authentication of the user and or the security authentication of the user. Cloud computer system may store information indicating one or more security protocols e.g. a protocol based on SAML . A security protocol supported for communication of a request for a service may be chosen based on a type of service requested an enterprise computer system requested criterion related to security authentication of the user or combinations thereof. Security service may determine a security protocol based on information about the requested service including the requested enterprise computer system and a type of service requested.

In some embodiments enterprise computer system may include agent system which may be located on premises of an enterprise. Agent system may process e.g. translate or convert requests for services to an enterprise computer server computer of an enterprise computer system. Agent system may receive requests from cloud computer system according to a common security protocol regardless of a type of enterprise computer system that is requested for a service. In such embodiments security service may determine a common security protocol to send the request from a user to the requested enterprise computer system. Cloud computer system may store information indicating a security protocol supported by enterprise computer systems and or on premises agent systems that support enterprise computer systems. The common security protocol may be determined based on the enterprise computer system that is requested.

Process may include security service generating a security token for a service requested from an enterprise computer system. The security token may include information about the security authentication of a user that requested a service. As explained above a requested enterprise computer system may use the generated security token to verify whether a user associated with a request is authorized to request a service. The security token may be generated based on one or more of the following a security protocol determined for a request a type of enterprise computer system that is requested a service that is requested the security authentication of a user other criteria based on the requested service or combinations thereof. In some embodiments a security token may be generated corresponding to a format corresponding to a security protocol determined for a request. Process may include security service storing the generated security token in cloud computer system .

Process may include a request including security authentication information being passed to a dispatcher e.g. dispatcher . Process may include a request being routed to routing bus . Routing bus may transfer the request to adaptor interface to process a request for delivery to an enterprise computer system e.g. enterprise computer system requested for a service. Process may include adaptor interface processing a request to translate the request to a communication protocol supported by enterprise computer system .

Process may include sending enterprise data to enterprise computer system . Enterprise data may include a request and may be sent using a communication protocol supported by enterprise computer system . The request may correspond to a request received from computing device . Enterprise data may include enterprise data described above such as enterprise data stored by cloud computer system . Enterprise data may include a security token generated for a request. Enterprise data may include multiple requests each corresponding to a request received from computing device . In some embodiments enterprise data may include multiple requests selected based on a single request received from computing device . When including multiple requests enterprise data may include a security token corresponding to each request. In the example shown in enterprise data may indicate multiple requests each corresponding to a different requested service. Each requested service may be provided by enterprise computer system or other enterprise computer systems accessible to enterprise computer system . In some embodiments enterprise data may be directed to agent system . As explained above agent system may support a common security protocol for handling requests for services. Enterprise data may be formatted according to a common security protocol.

Process may include enterprise computer system receiving enterprise data . In some embodiments enterprise data may be received by agent system . Agent system may perform one or more operations upon receiving enterprise data . One operation may include storing enterprise data in enterprise computer system or agent system . Another operation may include processing enterprise data to determine a requested service. Enterprise data may be converted based on a format corresponding to a protocol supported by enterprise computer system .

In some embodiments another operation performed by agent system may include processing enterprise data to determine a security protocol for a requested service. The security protocol may correspond to a common security protocol supported by agent system . Enterprise data may be processed to determine whether a request is presented in a format corresponding to a supported security protocol.

In yet another operation agent system may process enterprise data to determine a security token for a requested service. Enterprise data may be processed to verify authentication of the user based on the security token. Agent system may determine authentication of a user to request the service. Each request in enterprise data may be processed to determine authentication of the user. In some embodiments agent system may determine authentication for all requests in enterprise data based on a security token included in enterprise data . For example agent system may determine whether authentication information matches authentication information stored by enterprise computer system . The authentication information may be compared to authentication information stored by enterprise computer system to determine whether the information matches or satisfies a criterion.

Another operation may include sending enterprise data to one or more enterprise server computers e.g. enterprise server computer and enterprise server computer . Enterprise data received by enterprise computer system may include multiple requests each directed to a different service provided by a different one of enterprise server computers . Enterprise server computer and enterprise server computer may provide a single service or may provide different services. In some embodiments each of enterprise server computers may facilitate or be associated with one or more other enterprise computer systems. In such embodiments agent system may be configured to communicate a request to an enterprise computer system via one or both of enterprise server computers . In some embodiments one or more of agent system enterprise server computer and enterprise server computer may be included in a single computer system. Alternatively one or more of agent system enterprise server computer and enterprise server computer may be included in different computer systems located in different geographical locations physically separated from each other.

In one example shown in agent system may send enterprise data to enterprise server computer for one request and may send enterprise data to enterprise server computer to another request. Enterprise data e.g. enterprise data or enterprise data sent to an enterprise server computer may include a request formatted to a protocol e.g. security protocol supported by the enterprise server computer. Enterprise data and enterprise data may be sent concurrently to enterprise server computer and enterprise server computer respectively.

Process may include enterprise computer system processing one or more responses received from each of enterprise server computers . A response may include enterprise data indicating one or more of the following a response to a request for a service a result of requesting a service error information about a requested service enterprise data for a requested service other enterprise data to provide a requested service or combinations thereof. Agent system may manage processing of responses received from enterprise server computers . For example agent system may receive a response from enterprise server computer and may receive a response from enterprise server computer . Responses e.g. response and response may be received concurrently or at different time periods. Responses may be received during different time periods because of a distance a communication travels network delays resource for processing a request time needed for providing a service or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments processing responses e.g. response or response may include converting enterprise data in a response e.g. response and response to a format supported by cloud computer system . The format may correspond to a communication protocol supported by cloud computer system . In some embodiments agent system may perform the conversion process as it may be configured to communicate with cloud computer system on behalf of enterprise computer system .

Process may include enterprise computer system sending one or more responses e.g. response or response to cloud computer system . A response may include enterprise data received in a response from an enterprise server computer. The enterprise data may be formatted according to a communication protocol supported by cloud computer system . A response may be sent for each response received from an enterprise server computer. For example response may include enterprise data received from response and response may include enterprise data received from response . Enterprise computer system may send a response as responses are received from an enterprise server computer or a response may include enterprise data received from multiple responses that have been gathered. Such techniques may be useful to minimize communication and or improve efficiency for communication. In some embodiments multiple responses may be gathered to receive enterprise data to provide a requested service. As such enterprise computer system may send multiple responses to cloud computer system to provide enterprise data related to a requested service.

Process may include routing bus processing responses received from enterprise computer system . Cloud computer system may perform one or more operations in response to receiving responses . One operation may include storing enterprise data received in a response. Another operation may include processing enterprise data received in a response e.g. response or response . Enterprise data received in a response may include a result or notification regarding a requested service. The enterprise data may be processed to identify the result or notification. The enterprise data may be parsed to extract relevant enterprise data for a requested service. In some embodiments enterprise data received in a response may be compared with existing enterprise data stored on a mobile computing device requesting the service. The differences in the enterprise data may be identified based on the comparison. The differences may be stored and or communicated to computing device . In some embodiments cloud computer system may determine the enterprise data that can be provided in a response to computing device .

Process may include cloud computer system sending one or more responses e.g. response or response to computing device . Response and response may be sent including enterprise data from response and response respectively. In some embodiments response or response may be sent including enterprise data included in both. In some embodiments cloud computer system may merge stored enterprise data with enterprise data received in either or both of response or response . Response and or response may include a notification about data originally sent to cloud computer system .

Communication between a computing device and an enterprise computer system may be more efficient when conducted through a cloud computer system. Users can communicate with various different types of enterprise computer systems without the computing device having to manage security authentication for different authentication systems supported by different enterprise computer systems. In some instances security authentication may remain valid for a time period thereby improving enabling response time to be improved for processing a request because authentication may be eliminated for subsequent requests.

In a flowchart is shown that illustrates a process for facilitating communication between a mobile computing device and an enterprise computer system according to some embodiments of the present invention. Specifically process enables a mobile computing device e.g. a mobile smartphone to communicate with enterprise computer systems to request services from and or to exchange enterprise data with the enterprise computer systems. In certain embodiments process may manage security authentication for a user with respect to accessing one or more enterprise computer systems. In some embodiments process may enable access to enterprise computer systems based on verification of security authentication for the user. Based on the security authentication of the user process may communicate security authentication information to a requested enterprise computer system according to a security protocol supported by the enterprise computer system. In some embodiments using the security authentication of a user managed by the cloud computer systems process may generate a security token in a manner or format supported by a security protocol of a requested enterprise computer system. Such techniques are described below with reference to . In certain embodiments a cloud computer system e.g. cloud computer system may implement process .

Process is illustrated as a logical flow diagram the operation of which represents operations that may be implemented in hardware computer instructions or a combination thereof. In the context of computer instructions the operations represent computer executable instructions stored on one or more computer readable storage media that when executed by one or more processors perform the recited operations. Generally computer executable instructions include routines programs applications objects components data structures and the like that perform particular functions or implement particular data types. The order in which the operations are described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described operations may be combined in any order and or in parallel to implement the processes.

Beginning at block process may include receiving from a mobile computing device e.g. computing device a request for a service from an enterprise computer system e.g. enterprise computer system . In some embodiments the request may include information indicate the service that has been requested the enterprise computer system requested for the service enterprise data included in the request or combinations thereof. The request may be received by a cloud computer system e.g. cloud computer system . Such a cloud computer system may be located at a first geographical location that is different from a second geographical location of the enterprise computer system. The cloud computer system and the enterprise computer system communicate over a public communication network.

At block process may include obtaining for a user of the mobile computing device associated with the request a security authentication to obtain at least one service through the cloud computer system. Security authentication may be obtained based on information associated with the user. The request received from the mobile computing device may include user identification information such as a user s name contact information e.g. an address an email address or a telephone number a user identifier other information identifying the user or combinations thereof. User identification information may be identified based on information about the mobile computing device determined based on the request. As explained earlier security authentication may be obtained for a user accessing MCS . The authentication may last for a time period tied to a variety of conditions such as operation of an app on the mobile computing device. In some embodiments security authentication for a user may be stored in memory e.g. authentication information after being previously obtained during processing of a request.

At block process may include storing information indicating the security authentication. The information may be stored in a cache of a computing device e.g. a computing device that performs process . The information may include details about the security authentication such as one or more services a user may be authorized to access from an enterprise computer system one or more types of services the user is authorized to access from an enterprise computer system one or more types of enterprise data that can be exchanged with an enterprise computer system other criterion related to a service provided by an enterprise computer system or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the information indicating the security authentication may include a type of enterprise data a function or the like which can be accessed from an enterprise computer system. In some embodiments the security authentication may indicate a security protocol or standard to use for communication with the requested enterprise computer system. The information may include operations functions methods or the like which the user may be authorized to access. The information indicating the security authentication may remain stored for a time period. The time period may be based on one or more of the following use of an application at a computing device associated with the user operation of an application at a computing device use of the requested service sensitivity of enterprise data exchanged for the requested service a time period for accessing a cloud service time period for accessing an enterprise computer system other criterion related to use of the requested service other criterion related to accessing a cloud service or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the information indicating the security authentication may already be stored from a previous request to access the requested enterprise computer system.

At block process may include identifying based on the security authentication of the user a plurality of enterprise computer systems accessible to the user through the cloud computer system e.g. the cloud computer system . In some embodiments the security authentication of the user may permit the user to access any one of the enterprise computer systems accessible through the cloud computer system. In some embodiments the security authentication of the user may be performed for the enterprise computer systems which may be accessed for the requested service. As explained above a user s security authentication may be based on that user s role when sending a request for a service. As such the enterprise computer systems which may be accessible to the user may be tied to those which are accessible to the role of the user. The security authentication may include or be associated with information indicating one or more enterprise computer systems that are accessible to the user.

At block process may include verifying that the enterprise computer system is included in the plurality of enterprise computer systems accessible to the user. Process may verify the enterprise computer system by determining whether an identifier of the enterprise computer system is included in the request and if so determine whether the identifier corresponding to one of the identified enterprise computer systems. In some embodiments the request for the service may be processed to determine the requested enterprise computer system. Then process may determine whether the requested enterprise computer system is one of the identified enterprise computer systems.

At block process may include determining a security protocol for requesting the service from the enterprise computer system. In some embodiments at least one of the plurality of enterprise computer systems may communicate using a different security protocol than a different one of the plurality of enterprise computer systems. The security protocol may be determined based on an enterprise computer system to which communication e.g. a request for a service is directed a type of enterprise computer system requested a type of service requested the sensitivity or nature of the request or combinations thereof. The security protocol may be determined based on a communication protocol for communicating with the requested enterprise computer system a type of communication connection and or network used for communication with the requested enterprise computer system or a combination thereof. In some embodiments security protocol may be based on an open standard for authentication such as SAML. The security protocol may be based on one or more protocols or standards for authentication of enterprise data between two systems.

In some embodiments the security protocol may be a security protocol for enabling access to an agent system e.g. agent system on premises of an enterprise. An agent system may be configured to receive requests using a security protocol and may communicate a request to an enterprise computer system according to a specific security protocol supported by such a requested enterprise computer system. In such a manner a cloud computer system can manage authentication for a single security protocol and can avoid having to manage authentication for different security protocols supported by enterprise computer systems.

At block process may include generating a security token corresponding to the determined security protocol for the enterprise computer system. The security token may be generated according to a format or a standard corresponding to the security protocol. For example the security token may be structured in a format using SAML which in this example corresponds to a security protocol based on SAML.

In some embodiments a security token may be generated based on the information indicating the security authentication of the user. As explained above security authentication may indicate access permitted to a user. As such the security token may be generated based on such information which indicates what the user may be permitted to access for the requested service. The security token may include credential information information about the user other information related to the user s access for the requested service or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the security token may be generated based on a type of service or a function accessible to the user or other types of limitations for the requested service based on authentication of the user.

At block process may include sending to the enterprise computer system a request for the requested service. The request to the enterprise computer system may include the generated security token. In some embodiments process may send a request for the requested service to an agent system to communicate the request to one or more enterprise computer systems. In some embodiments a requested service may be provided by a combination of enterprise computer systems. As such the request may be distributed by the agent system. In some embodiments a request from the mobile computing device may indicate a plurality of services. In such cases process may send a request to different enterprise computer systems each request corresponding to one of the plurality of services. The generated token may be included in each request. Process may end at block .

It will be appreciated that process is illustrative and that variations and modifications are possible. Steps described as sequential may be executed in parallel order of steps may be varied and steps may be modified combined added or omitted. In certain embodiments process may be implemented when enterprise data is received via a wireless communication connection to a network. For example process may be performed for each request for a service that is received from a mobile computing device. It should be noted that process can be performed concurrently for requests that are received in multiple communications from a mobile computing device. In certain embodiments blocks and may be implemented for different security authentication determined for a request. In certain embodiments blocks and may be implemented for a different enterprise computer system for which a service is requested. As such blocks and may be performed for each distinct security protocol determined when each enterprise computer system has a different security protocol. Block can be performed for each request to be communicated to a different enterprise computer system.

In various embodiments server may be adapted to run one or more services or software applications provided by one or more of the components of the system. The services or software applications can include nonvirtual and virtual environments. Virtual environments can include those used for virtual events tradeshows simulators classrooms shopping exchanges and enterprises whether two or three dimensional 3D representations page based logical environments or otherwise. In some embodiments these services may be offered as web based or cloud services or under a Software as a Service SaaS model to the users of client computing devices and or . Users operating client computing devices and or may in turn utilize one or more client applications to interact with server to utilize the services provided by these components.

In the configuration depicted in the figure the software components and of system are shown as being implemented on server . In other embodiments one or more of the components of system and or the services provided by these components may also be implemented by one or more of the client computing devices and or . Users operating the client computing devices may then utilize one or more client applications to use the services provided by these components. These components may be implemented in hardware firmware software or combinations thereof. It should be appreciated that various different system configurations are possible which may be different from distributed system . The embodiment shown in the figure is thus one example of a distributed system for implementing an embodiment system and is not intended to be limiting.

Client computing devices and or may be portable handheld devices e.g. an iPhone cellular telephone an iPad computing tablet a personal digital assistant PDA or wearable devices e.g. a Google Glass head mounted display running software such as Microsoft Windows Mobile and or a variety of mobile operating systems such as iOS Windows Phone Android BlackBerry 10 Palm OS and the like and being Internet e mail short message service SMS Blackberry or other communication protocol enabled. The client computing devices can be general purpose personal computers including by way of example personal computers and or laptop computers running various versions of Microsoft Windows Apple Macintosh and or Linux operating systems. The client computing devices can be workstation computers running any of a variety of commercially available UNIX or UNIX like operating systems including without limitation the variety of GNU Linux operating systems such as for example Google Chrome OS. Alternatively or in addition client computing devices and may be any other electronic device such as a thin client computer an Internet enabled gaming system e.g. a Microsoft Xbox gaming console with or without a Kinect gesture input device and or a personal messaging device capable of communicating over network s .

Although exemplary distributed system is shown with four client computing devices any number of client computing devices may be supported. Other devices such as devices with sensors etc. may interact with server .

Network s in distributed system may be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP transmission control protocol Internet protocol SNA systems network architecture IPX Internet packet exchange AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example network s can be a local area network LAN such as one based on Ethernet Token Ring and or the like. Network s can be a wide area network and the Internet. It can include a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network e.g. a network operating under any of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols Bluetooth and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

Server may be composed of one or more general purpose computers specialized server computers including by way of example PC personal computer servers UNIX servers mid range servers mainframe computers rack mounted servers etc. server farms server clusters or any other appropriate arrangement and or combination. Server can include one or more virtual machines running virtual operating systems or other computing architectures involving virtualization. One or more flexible pools of logical storage devices can be virtualized to maintain virtual storage devices for the server. Virtual networks can be controlled by server using software defined networking. In various embodiments server may be adapted to run one or more services or software applications described in the foregoing disclosure. For example server may correspond to a server for performing processing described above according to an embodiment of the present invention.

Server may run an operating system including any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating system. Server may also run any of a variety of additional server applications and or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI common gateway interface servers JAVA servers database servers and the like. Exemplary database servers include without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM International Business Machines and the like.

In some implementations server may include one or more applications to analyze and consolidate data feeds and or event updates received from users of client computing devices and . As an example data feeds and or event updates may include but are not limited to Twitter feeds Facebook updates or real time updates received from one or more third party information sources and continuous data streams which may include real time events related to sensor data applications financial tickers network performance measuring tools e.g. network monitoring and traffic management applications clickstream analysis tools automobile traffic monitoring and the like. Server may also include one or more applications to display the data feeds and or real time events via one or more display devices of client computing devices and .

Distributed system may also include one or more databases and . Databases and may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example one or more of databases and may reside on a non transitory storage medium local to and or resident in server . Alternatively databases and may be remote from server and in communication with server via a network based or dedicated connection. In one set of embodiments databases and may reside in a storage area network SAN . Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to server may be stored locally on server and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments databases and may include relational databases such as databases provided by Oracle that are adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands. The one or more databases and can include or be implemented as database .

It should be appreciated that cloud infrastructure system depicted in the figure may have other components than those depicted. Further the embodiment shown in the figure is only one example of a cloud infrastructure system that may incorporate an embodiment of the invention. For example the cloud infrastructure system can include or implement all or part of cloud computer system . In some other embodiments cloud infrastructure system may have more or fewer components than shown in the figure may combine two or more components or may have a different configuration or arrangement of components.

Client computing devices and may be devices similar to those described above for client computing devices and .

Although exemplary system environment is shown with three client computing devices any number of client computing devices may be supported. Other devices such as devices with sensors etc. may interact with cloud infrastructure system .

Network s may facilitate communications and exchange of data between clients and and cloud infrastructure system . Each network may be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including those described above for network s .

Cloud infrastructure system may comprise one or more computers and or servers that may include those described above for server .

In certain embodiments services provided by the cloud infrastructure system may include a host of services that are made available to users of the cloud infrastructure system on demand such as online data storage and backup solutions Web based e mail services hosted office suites and document collaboration services database processing managed technical support services and the like. Services provided by the cloud infrastructure system can dynamically scale to meet the needs of its users. A specific instantiation of a service provided by cloud infrastructure system is referred to herein as a service instance. In general any service made available to a user via a communication network such as the Internet from a cloud service provider s system is referred to as a cloud service. Typically in a public cloud environment servers and systems that make up the cloud service provider s system are different from the customer s own on premises servers and systems. For example a cloud service provider s system may host an application and a user may via a communication network such as the Internet on demand order and use the application.

In some examples a service in a computer network cloud infrastructure may include protected computer network access to storage a hosted database a hosted web server a software application or other service provided by a cloud vendor to a user or as otherwise known in the art. For example a service can include password protected access to remote storage on the cloud through the Internet. As another example a service can include a web service based hosted relational database and a script language middleware engine for private use by a networked developer. As another example a service can include access to an email software application hosted on a cloud vendor s web site.

In certain embodiments cloud infrastructure system may include a suite of applications middleware and database service offerings that are delivered to a customer in a self service subscription based elastically scalable reliable highly available and secure manner. An example of such a cloud infrastructure system is the Oracle Public Cloud provided by the present assignee.

Large volumes of data sometimes referred to as big data can be hosted and or manipulated by the infrastructure system on many levels and at different scales. Such data can include data sets that are so large and complex that it can be difficult to process using typical database management tools or traditional data processing applications. For example terabytes of data may be difficult to store retrieve and process using personal computers or their rack based counterparts. Such sizes of data can be difficult to work with using most current relational database management systems and desktop statistics and visualization packages. They can require massively parallel processing software running thousands of server computers beyond the structure of commonly used software tools to capture curate manage and process the data within a tolerable elapsed time.

Extremely large data sets can be stored and manipulated by analysis and researchers to visualize large amounts of data detect trends and or otherwise interact with the data. Tens hundreds or thousands of processors linked in parallel can act upon such data in order to present it or simulate external forces on the data or what it represents. These data sets can involve enterprise data structured data such as that organized in a database or otherwise according to a structured model and or unstructured data e.g. emails images data blobs binary large objects web pages complex event processing . By leveraging an ability of an embodiment to relatively quickly focus more or fewer computing resources upon an objective the cloud infrastructure system may be better available to carry out tasks on large data sets based on demand from a business government agency research organization private individual group of like minded individuals or organizations or other entity.

In various embodiments cloud infrastructure system may be adapted to automatically provision manage and track a customer s subscription to services offered by cloud infrastructure system . Cloud infrastructure system may provide the cloud services via different deployment models. For example services may be provided under a public cloud model in which cloud infrastructure system is owned by an organization selling cloud services e.g. owned by Oracle and the services are made available to the general public or different industry enterprises. As another example services may be provided under a private cloud model in which cloud infrastructure system is operated solely for a single organization and may provide services for one or more entities within the organization. The cloud services may also be provided under a community cloud model in which cloud infrastructure system and the services provided by cloud infrastructure system are shared by several organizations in a related community. The cloud services may also be provided under a hybrid cloud model which is a combination of two or more different models.

In some embodiments the services provided by cloud infrastructure system may include one or more services provided under Software as a Service SaaS category Platform as a Service PaaS category Infrastructure as a Service IaaS category or other categories of services including hybrid services. A customer via a subscription order may order one or more services provided by cloud infrastructure system . Cloud infrastructure system then performs processing to provide the services in the customer s subscription order.

In some embodiments the services provided by cloud infrastructure system may include without limitation application services platform services and infrastructure services. In some examples application services may be provided by the cloud infrastructure system via a SaaS platform. The SaaS platform may be configured to provide cloud services that fall under the SaaS category. For example the SaaS platform may provide capabilities to build and deliver a suite of on demand applications on an integrated development and deployment platform. The SaaS platform may manage and control the underlying software and infrastructure for providing the SaaS services. By utilizing the services provided by the SaaS platform customers can utilize applications executing on the cloud infrastructure system. Customers can acquire the application services without the need for customers to purchase separate licenses and support. Various different SaaS services may be provided. Examples include without limitation services that provide solutions for sales performance management enterprise integration and business flexibility for large organizations.

In some embodiments platform services may be provided by the cloud infrastructure system via a PaaS platform. The PaaS platform may be configured to provide cloud services that fall under the PaaS category. Examples of platform services may include without limitation services that enable organizations such as Oracle to consolidate existing applications on a shared common architecture as well as the ability to build new applications that leverage the shared services provided by the platform. The PaaS platform may manage and control the underlying software and infrastructure for providing the PaaS services. Customers can acquire the PaaS services provided by the cloud infrastructure system without the need for customers to purchase separate licenses and support. Examples of platform services include without limitation Oracle Java Cloud Service JCS Oracle Database Cloud Service DBCS and others.

By utilizing the services provided by the PaaS platform customers can employ programming languages and tools supported by the cloud infrastructure system and can control the deployed services. In some embodiments platform services provided by the cloud infrastructure system may include database cloud services middleware cloud services e.g. Oracle Fusion Middleware services and Java cloud services. In one embodiment database cloud services may support shared service deployment models that enable organizations to pool database resources and offer customers a Database as a Service in the form of a database cloud. Middleware cloud services may provide a platform for customers to develop and deploy various business applications and Java cloud services may provide a platform for customers to deploy Java applications in the cloud infrastructure system.

Various different infrastructure services may be provided by an IaaS platform in the cloud infrastructure system. The infrastructure services facilitate the management and control of the underlying computing resources such as storage networks and other fundamental computing resources for customers utilizing services provided by the SaaS platform and the PaaS platform.

In certain embodiments cloud infrastructure system may also include infrastructure resources for providing the resources used to provide various services to customers of the cloud infrastructure system. In one embodiment infrastructure resources may include pre integrated and optimized combinations of hardware such as servers storage and networking resources to execute the services provided by the PaaS platform and the SaaS platform.

In some embodiments resources in cloud infrastructure system may be shared by multiple users and dynamically re allocated per demand. Additionally resources may be allocated to users in different time zones. For example cloud infrastructure system may enable a first set of users in a first time zone to utilize resources of the cloud infrastructure system for a specified number of hours and then enable the re allocation of the same resources to another set of users located in a different time zone thereby maximizing the utilization of resources.

In certain embodiments a number of internal shared services may be provided that are shared by different components or modules of cloud infrastructure system and by the services provided by cloud infrastructure system . These internal shared services may include without limitation a security and identity service an integration service an enterprise repository service an enterprise manager service a virus scanning and white list service a high availability backup and recovery service service for enabling cloud support an email service a notification service a file transfer service and the like.

In certain embodiments cloud infrastructure system may provide comprehensive management of cloud services e.g. SaaS PaaS and IaaS services in the cloud infrastructure system. In one embodiment cloud management functionality may include capabilities for provisioning managing and tracking a customer s subscription received by cloud infrastructure system and the like.

In one embodiment as depicted in the figure cloud management functionality may be provided by one or more modules such as an order management module an order orchestration module an order provisioning module an order management and monitoring module and an identity management module . These modules may include or be provided using one or more computers and or servers which may be general purpose computers specialized server computers server farms server clusters or any other appropriate arrangement and or combination.

In exemplary operation a customer using a client device such as client device or may interact with cloud infrastructure system by requesting one or more services provided by cloud infrastructure system and placing an order for a subscription for one or more services offered by cloud infrastructure system . In certain embodiments the customer may access a cloud User Interface UI cloud UI cloud UI and or cloud UI and place a subscription order via these UIs. The order information received by cloud infrastructure system in response to the customer placing an order may include information identifying the customer and one or more services offered by the cloud infrastructure system that the customer intends to subscribe to.

After an order has been placed by the customer the order information is received via the cloud UIs and or .

At operation the order is stored in order database . Order database can be one of several databases operated by cloud infrastructure system and operated in conjunction with other system elements.

At operation the order information is forwarded to an order management module . In some instances order management module may be configured to perform billing and accounting functions related to the order such as verifying the order and upon verification booking the order.

At operation information regarding the order is communicated to an order orchestration module . Order orchestration module may utilize the order information to orchestrate the provisioning of services and resources for the order placed by the customer. In some instances order orchestration module may orchestrate the provisioning of resources to support the subscribed services using the services of order provisioning module .

In certain embodiments order orchestration module enables the management of business processes associated with each order and applies business logic to determine whether an order should proceed to provisioning. At operation upon receiving an order for a new subscription order orchestration module sends a request to order provisioning module to allocate resources and configure those resources needed to fulfill the subscription order. Order provisioning module enables the allocation of resources for the services ordered by the customer. Order provisioning module provides a level of abstraction between the cloud services provided by cloud infrastructure system and the physical implementation layer that is used to provision the resources for providing the requested services. Order orchestration module may thus be isolated from implementation details such as whether or not services and resources are actually provisioned on the fly or pre provisioned and only allocated assigned upon request.

At operation once the services and resources are provisioned a notification of the provided service may be sent to customers on client devices and or by order provisioning module of cloud infrastructure system .

At operation the customer s subscription order may be managed and tracked by an order management and monitoring module . In some instances order management and monitoring module may be configured to collect usage statistics for the services in the subscription order such as the amount of storage used the amount data transferred the number of users and the amount of system up time and system down time.

In certain embodiments cloud infrastructure system may include an identity management module . Identity management module may be configured to provide identity services such as access management and authorization services in cloud infrastructure system . In some embodiments identity management module may control information about customers who wish to utilize the services provided by cloud infrastructure system . Such information can include information that authenticates the identities of such customers and information that describes which actions those customers are authorized to perform relative to various system resources e.g. files directories applications communication ports memory segments etc. . Identity management module may also include the management of descriptive information about each customer and about how and by whom that descriptive information can be accessed and modified.

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism for letting the various components and subsystems of computer system communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple buses. Bus subsystem may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. For example such architectures may include an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus which can be implemented as a Mezzanine bus manufactured to the IEEE P1386.1 standard.

Processing unit which can be implemented as one or more integrated circuits e.g. a conventional microprocessor or microcontroller controls the operation of computer system . One or more processors may be included in processing unit . These processors may include single core or multicore processors. In certain embodiments processing unit may be implemented as one or more independent processing units and or with single or multicore processors included in each processing unit. In other embodiments processing unit may also be implemented as a quad core processing unit formed by integrating two dual core processors into a single chip.

In various embodiments processing unit can execute a variety of programs in response to program code and can maintain multiple concurrently executing programs or processes. At any given time some or all of the program code to be executed can be resident in processor s and or in storage subsystem . Through suitable programming processor s can provide various functionalities described above. Computer system may additionally include a processing acceleration unit which can include a digital signal processor DSP a special purpose processor and or the like.

I O subsystem may include user interface input devices and user interface output devices. User interface input devices may include a keyboard pointing devices such as a mouse or trackball a touchpad or touch screen incorporated into a display a scroll wheel a click wheel a dial a button a switch a keypad audio input devices with voice command recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. User interface input devices may include for example motion sensing and or gesture recognition devices such as the Microsoft Kinect motion sensor that enables users to control and interact with an input device such as the Microsoft Xbox 360 game controller through a natural user interface using gestures and spoken commands. User interface input devices may also include eye gesture recognition devices such as the Google Glass blink detector that detects eye activity e.g. blinking while taking pictures and or making a menu selection from users and transforms the eye gestures as input into an input device e.g. Google Glass . Additionally user interface input devices may include voice recognition sensing devices that enable users to interact with voice recognition systems e.g. Siri navigator through voice commands.

User interface input devices may also include without limitation three dimensional 3D mice joysticks or pointing sticks gamepads and graphic tablets and audio visual devices such as speakers digital cameras digital camcorders portable media players webcams image scanners fingerprint scanners barcode reader 3D scanners 3D printers laser rangefinders and eye gaze tracking devices. Additionally user interface input devices may include for example medical imaging input devices such as computed tomography magnetic resonance imaging position emission tomography medical ultrasonography devices. User interface input devices may also include for example audio input devices such as MIDI keyboards digital musical instruments and the like.

User interface output devices may include a display subsystem indicator lights or non visual displays such as audio output devices etc. The display subsystem may be a cathode ray tube CRT a flat panel device such as that using a liquid crystal display LCD or plasma display a projection device a touch screen and the like. In general use of the term output device is intended to include all possible types of devices and mechanisms for outputting information from computer system to a user or other computer. For example user interface output devices may include without limitation a variety of display devices that visually convey text graphics and audio video information such as monitors printers speakers headphones automotive navigation systems plotters voice output devices and modems.

Computer system may comprise a storage subsystem that comprises software elements shown as being currently located within a system memory . System memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on processing unit as well as data generated during the execution of these programs.

Depending on the configuration and type of computer system system memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. The RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated and executed by processing unit . In some implementations system memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM or dynamic random access memory DRAM . In some implementations a basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer system such as during start up may typically be stored in the ROM. By way of example and not limitation system memory also illustrates application programs which may include client applications Web browsers mid tier applications relational database management systems RDBMS etc. program data and an operating system . By way of example operating system may include various versions of Microsoft Windows Apple Macintosh and or Linux operating systems a variety of commercially available UNIX or UNIX like operating systems including without limitation the variety of GNU Linux operating systems the Google Chrome OS and the like and or mobile operating systems such as iOS Windows Phone Android OS BlackBerry 10 OS and Palm OS operating systems.

Storage subsystem may also provide a tangible computer readable storage medium for storing the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of some embodiments. Software programs code modules instructions that when executed by a processor provide the functionality described above may be stored in storage subsystem . These software modules or instructions may be executed by processing unit . Storage subsystem may also provide a repository for storing data used in accordance with the present invention.

Storage subsystem may also include a computer readable storage media reader that can further be connected to computer readable storage media . Together and optionally in combination with system memory computer readable storage media may comprehensively represent remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information.

Computer readable storage media containing code or portions of code can also include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information. This can include tangible non transitory computer readable storage media such as RAM ROM electronically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible computer readable media. When specified this can also include nontangible transitory computer readable media such as data signals data transmissions or any other medium which can be used to transmit the desired information and which can be accessed by computing system .

By way of example computer readable storage media may include a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD and Blu Ray disk or other optical media. Computer readable storage media may include but is not limited to Zip drives flash memory cards universal serial bus USB flash drives secure digital SD cards DVD disks digital video tape and the like. Computer readable storage media may also include solid state drives SSD based on non volatile memory such as flash memory based SSDs enterprise flash drives solid state ROM and the like SSDs based on volatile memory such as solid state RAM dynamic RAM static RAM DRAM based SSDs magnetoresistive RAM MRAM SSDs and hybrid SSDs that use a combination of DRAM and flash memory based SSDs. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for computer system .

Communications subsystem provides an interface to other computer systems and networks. Communications subsystem serves as an interface for receiving data from and transmitting data to other systems from computer system . For example communications subsystem may enable computer system to connect to one or more devices via the Internet. In some embodiments communications subsystem can include radio frequency RF transceiver components for accessing wireless voice and or data networks e.g. using cellular telephone technology advanced data network technology such as 3G 4G or EDGE enhanced data rates for global evolution WiFi IEEE 802.11 family standards or other mobile communication technologies or any combination thereof global positioning system GPS receiver components and or other components. In some embodiments communications subsystem can provide wired network connectivity e.g. Ethernet in addition to or instead of a wireless interface.

In some embodiments communications subsystem may also receive input communication in the form of structured and or unstructured data feeds event streams event updates and the like on behalf of one or more users who may use computer system .

By way of example communications subsystem may be configured to receive data feeds in real time from users of social media networks and or other communication services such as Twitter feeds Facebook updates web feeds such as Rich Site Summary RSS feeds and or real time updates from one or more third party information sources.

Additionally communications subsystem may also be configured to receive data in the form of continuous data streams which may include event streams of real time events and or event updates that may be continuous or unbounded in nature with no explicit end. Examples of applications that generate continuous data may include for example sensor data applications financial tickers network performance measuring tools e.g. network monitoring and traffic management applications clickstream analysis tools automobile traffic monitoring and the like.

Communications subsystem may also be configured to output the structured and or unstructured data feeds event streams event updates and the like to one or more databases that may be in communication with one or more streaming data source computers coupled to computer system .

Computer system can be one of various types including a handheld portable device e.g. an iPhone cellular phone an iPad computing tablet a PDA a wearable device e.g. a Google Glass head mounted display a PC a workstation a mainframe a kiosk a server rack or any other data processing system.

Due to the ever changing nature of computers and networks the description of computer system depicted in the figure is intended only as a specific example. Many other configurations having more or fewer components than the system depicted in the figure are possible. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware firmware software including applets or a combination. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention are described with reference to specific embodiments thereof but those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention is not limited thereto. Various features and embodiments of the above described invention may be used individually or jointly. Further embodiments can be utilized in any number of environments and applications beyond those described herein without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the specification. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

