---

title: Personalized mosaic integrated with the guide
abstract: Integration of a personalized mosaic screen within a programming guide is provided. The programming guide may be displayed in one of various formats including a mosaic format. The programming guide may be personalized to the user. For example, the user may select to view a display of currently airing content recommended to the user, a display of currently airing content similar to a selected or currently viewed program, a display of currently airing content fitting a specific mood, a display of currently airing content from the user's favorite channel(s), or a display of currently airing content fitting one or more user-selected or automatically-selected themes. The content personalized to the user may be displayed in any of the programming guide formats. The user may selectively switch to a different format, wherein the personalized content may be seamlessly provided in the selected format.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09326035&OS=09326035&RS=09326035
owner: COX COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
number: 09326035
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
The application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 801 555 titled Personalized Mosaics Integrated with the Guide filed Mar. 15 2013 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 800 968 titled Customized Mosaic Screen filed Mar. 15 2013 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 794 434 titled Auto Population of a Mosaic Screen filed Mar. 15 2013 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Most television services provide programming guides displaying scheduling information for current and upcoming programming. Modern programming guides are oftentimes interactive allowing users to navigate scheduling information menus and to select and discover programs by time title channel or genre using an input device such as a keypad computer keyboard or television remote control. Many service providers offer a multi screen display herein referred to as a mosaic comprising a collection of elements or channels displayed on a single screen is provided. Most often each channel may be represented as a thumbnail image or video feed of the channel which a user may be enabled to navigate to listen to audio related to the content playing on the channel or to select for viewing.

Currently most mosaics provide a display of channels that are genre based static or defined with preset channels. A user or subscriber watching the channels displayed within a mosaic may not be enabled to interact with the display except for navigation and selection. Mosaics that are offered today may include preset channels which may either be static or in some cases may be manually selected to be included by a user. Additionally mosaics are not integrated with a programming guide and are oftentimes hard to locate within a menu system. Accordingly mosaics today are generally not appealing to users and subscribers have limited usage of them.

An integration of a personalized mosaic screen within a programming guide is provided. The illustrated embodiments allow users to selectively view the programming guide in a variety of formats including a mosaic format and to seamlessly switch between the various formats. The programming guide may be personalized to a specific user. For example the user may select to view a display of currently airing content recommended to the user a display of currently airing content similar to a selected or currently viewed program a display of currently airing content fitting a specific mood a display of currently airing content the user s favorite channel s or a display of currently airing content fitting one or more user selected or automatically selected themes. The content personalized to the user may be displayed in any of the programming guide formats.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

As briefly described above embodiments of the present invention are directed to providing an integration of a personalized mosaic screen within a programming guide. The programming guide may be displayed in one of various formats including a mosaic format and may be personalized to the user. For example the user may select a recommendations display of content a more like this display of content a mood display of content a favorite channels display of content or a themes display of content. The content personalized to the user may be displayed in any of the programming guide formats. The user may selectively switch to a different format wherein the personalized content may be seamlessly provided in the selected format.

These embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several figures embodiments of the present invention and an exemplary operating environment will be described.

Receiving devices include any device capable of receiving audio and video content and for allowing consumption of the content. For example a receiving device may include such devices as a television and associated set top box a tablet computing device a mobile telephone a smart television or other IP capable device . As will be described below each of these types of devices may be used for accessing and consuming content via a primary service provider.

A service provider content delivery network CDN is illustrated in association with the service provider and a service provider back end and application server are illustrated in association with the service provider CDN . As should be appreciated the layout of the functionalities of the service provider including the service provider CDN and the service provider back end and application server system are for purposes of illustration only and are not restrictive of the various layouts and combinations of systems that may be utilized by a given service provider for providing content to users subscribers.

According to embodiments a service provider back end application server may provide functionality for maintaining profile information on users subscribers including permissions for users subscribers to utilize service provider functionality including consumption of service provider content and including such functionalities as content preferences parental control systems billing systems and the like. The back end and application server for the service provider may provide operating functionality for example one or more software applications and associated databases for directing content distribution provided by the service provider to users subscribers at the receiving devices .

The service provider content delivery network CDN is illustrative of a delivery or distribution network which may include a distributed system of servers databases and other content repositories for distributing audio and video content text graphics media files software applications and associated documents on demand content social media content live streaming media content and the like from the service provider to the users subscribers. CDNs typically function by receiving requests from clients checking a local cache for a copy of the requested resource or querying some source if a requested resource is not in the cache or has expired for example. CDN servers can be strategically located at the edges of various networks to limit loads on network interconnects and backbones. CDN servers can be redundantly deployed and interact with other CDN servers to respond to content requests from clients in attempts to optimize content delivery. For example network edge servers can enable ease of browsing navigating and streaming of content including streaming live video. For example if a given user subscriber operating the tablet computing device selects a news story for live streaming to the tablet computing device as offered by the service provider the application server at the back end application server may cause a media player to activate for streaming the desired content from the service provider CDN to the user s tablet computing device via IP based transmission to the tablet computing device .

A programming guide mosaic screen is illustrated with which the service provider may provide information about and access to one or more features or attributes of available programming. The programming guide mosaic screen may be displayed on any of the content receiving devices for allowing users subscribers to review information about and gain access to available programming provided by the service provider . As will be described herein in addition to programming provided by the service provider the programming guide mosaic screen may be populated with information identifying and describing third party content and the user subscriber may utilize the programming guide mosaic screen for navigating to and consuming the third party content.

The service provider content metadata is illustrative of content and associated descriptive metadata that may be maintained and provided by the primary service provider or may be obtained from third party sources. The content metadata may also comprise information associated with the content including descriptive metadata for use in distributing the content and associated metadata through the back end application server of the service provider via the service provider CDN as described above. As should be appreciated metadata associated with content may include information such as content titles content authors content creation date content ratings information describing content plots summaries mood or any other information that may be provided in association with a given content item. In addition to metadata associated with a given content item for example a movie television show news event sports event and the like additional metadata for the content item may be produced and provided by the service provider for example information relating to viewing times viewing channels and the like designated by the service provider .

The authentication system is illustrative of one or more software applications and databases operative to determine whether a requesting user subscriber may access requested primary service provider content according to embodiments. That is if a user subscriber attempts to access one or more primary service provider content items the authentication system may be queried by the service provider back end application server for determining whether the requesting user subscriber is authorized to access the requested information including a determination of whether parental controls or other mechanisms are in place for blocking access to a requesting user subscriber.

The recommendation system is illustrative of one or more software applications operative to query profile preference data maintained by the primary service provider via the back end application server for users subscribers for recommending both primary service provider content and third party content. For example if profile preference data maintained for a given user subscriber in the profile preference data shows that a given user is fond of a particular genre of content for example action movies the recommendation system may utilize such profile preference data for recommending both primary service provider content and third party content to the user subscriber via the programming guide mosaic screen . Further it should also be noted that a request for recommendation data may be sent to the service provider application server . The retrieved data may then be received by the recommendations system of the service provider and the appropriate set of data may be retrieved and sent to a requesting set top box .

Further it should be noted that the system may also manage access to various receiving devices e.g. tablet devices . For example a channel may have rights associated with it to allow for streaming inside and outside the home.

As described above programming guides are useful tools for displaying scheduling information for current and upcoming programming and mosaics are useful for providing a visual representation of available video content. Typically the user interface UI of a programming guide comprises a table or grid listing channel names and program titles and times as illustrated in referred to herein as a grid view . Oftentimes the programming guide UI includes a scaled window which may display content the user is currently watching i.e. content playing on a channel currently connected to . For example if a user is watching CNN and selects to view the programming guide to see what else is on the content playing on CNN may continue to be displayed in the scaled window . As is well known in the art the programming guide may be displayed in other views such as a list view.

It can be appreciated that people are typically visual creatures. When looking at a grid view of the programming guide users may wish to have a visual presentation of available content not just a listing of titles. As briefly described above embodiments provide for integration of a mosaic with the programming guide wherein the programming guide may be displayed as a mosaic display of available programs. The programming guide mosaic screen may be accessed directly from the guide providing a seamless experience.

Referring now to an example programming guide mosaic screen is illustrated. As illustrated a programming guide mosaic screen may comprise a plurality of individual video tiles panes having currently airing content displayed on each of the video panes on a single mosaic screen. Embodiments provide for enabling a user to navigate between different programming guide views e.g. grid view list view mosaic view etc. . By simply selecting a programming guide view or by cycling through programming guide views the programming guide UI may be refreshed so that programming data may be displayed in the programming guide according to the selected programming guide view. A programming guide view may be selected via a variety of ways for example via selection of a programming guide view menu option displayed within the UI selection of a programming guide view button provided on a remote control repeated selection of a guide button provided on a remote control etc. According to one embodiment the mosaic view may be a default view of the programming guide.

As illustrated in the programming guide mosaic screen may include a scaled window as described above. A user may select a video pane displayed in the programming guide mosaic screen and the content playing in the selected video pane may be displayed in the scaled window .

According to embodiments a programming guide mosaic screen may be personalized to a specific user. Personalization may be provided via various ways. For example the programming guide mosaic screen may be personalized through the recommendation system . According to one embodiment a user may select a particular personalized mosaic view of the programming guide or according to another embodiment a personalized mosaic view of the programming guide may be automatically provided to the user. Personalized mosaic views may include but are not limited to a recommendations mosaic display a more like this mosaic display a mood mosaic display a favorite channels mosaic display or a themes mosaic display.

The example programming guide mosaic screen of comprises a display of video content recommended to the specific user by the recommendation system . For example a recommendations mosaic display of the programming guide may be provided and may include one or more recommended and currently airing video content items displayed in the plurality of video panes from which the user may choose to view at that time. According to an embodiment the recommended video content items may be displayed in a certain order according to profile preference data . For example if a user selects certain channels as his her favorite channels and if one or more video content items recommended to the user are available on a favorite channel those video content items may be displayed first.

Recommended video content items may be based on the user s viewing history preferences and feedback. Recommended video content may also be based on content the user is currently viewing. A user may select to remove a recommended content item displayed in a video pane from the recommendations mosaic display of the programming guide. Accordingly the mosaic screen may be dynamically refreshed and another recommended video content item may be displayed in place of the selectively removed video content item. According to an embodiment a next most highly recommended content item may replace the selectively removed video content item.

According to an embodiment a more like this option may be selected from a recommendations mosaic display of the programming guide. Selection of a more like this option from a recommendations mosaic display of the programming guide may provide for populating the programming guide mosaic screen with content that is tagged in the metadata such that it is associated with a selected content item and has other criteria that would make it a recommendation for the user.

According to an embodiment a particular mood type may be automatically selected based on the user s viewing history preferences and feedback. For example if a user generally watches comedy shows a determination may be made that the user has an affinity for video content that may be classified as comical mood content according to its metadata.

According to an embodiment a mood option may be selected from a recommendations mosaic display of the programming guide. Selection of a mood option from a recommendations mosaic display of the programming guide may provide for populating the programming guide mosaic screen with content that is tagged in the metadata such that it is associated with a selected mood type and has other criteria that would make it a recommendation for the user.

At OPERATION an indication of a selection to display the programming guide in a grid view format may be received. The selection to display the programming guide in a grid may be a selection of a displayed menu option for the grid view of the guide a selection of a button on a remote control device for the grid view of the guide or if the grid view is the default view for the guide a selection of a displayed menu option or remote control device button to launch the guide.

At OPERATION an indication of a selection to display the programming guide in a list view format may be received. The selection to display the programming guide as a list may be a selection of a displayed menu option for the list view of the guide a selection of a button on a remote control device for the list view of the guide or if the list view is the default view for the guide a selection of a displayed menu option or remote control device button to launch the guide.

At OPERATIONS and one or more options for personalizing the programming guide may be provided and selected. The one or more options may utilize any attribute that is associated with video content items in order to customize the content being displayed in the mosaic. For example in one embodiment the options may include a recommendations option a more like this option a mood option a favorite channels option and a themes option.

The method may proceed from OPERATION to OPERATION from OPERATION to OPERATION or from OPERATION to OPERATION . At OPERATIONS and the service provider may be queried for content associated with the programming guide and if applicable with the selected option e.g. recommendations option more like this option mood option favorite channels option themes option etc. . Various attributes may be utilized to query for content.

In one embodiment if a selection of a recommendations option is received attributes from a user s profile may be utilized to query for content common to content that is frequently viewed by the user. In another embodiment if a selection of a more like this option is received attributes from a selected content item or a content item currently being viewed by the user may be utilized to locate other content items that have similar attributes. In another embodiment if a selection of a mood option is received a query for content items tagged with metadata associated with a selected mood type e.g. happy sad comical etc. may be performed. In another embodiment if a selection of a favorite channels option is received a query for content items airing on the user s favorite channel s may be performed. Further if a selection of a themes option is received a query for content items tagged with metadata associated with one or more themes may be performed.

The method may proceed from OPERATIONS or to OPERATIONS or respectively where video content associated with the programming guide and if applicable associated with the selected option may be retrieved. The retrieved content may be located by the queries discussed above.

From OPERATION the method may proceed to OPERATION where a programming guide mosaic screen may be generated including the content retrieved at OPERATION and as illustrated and described with respect to . From OPERATION the method may proceed to OPERATION where a programming guide grid view screen may be generated including the content retrieved at OPERATION and as illustrated and described with respect to . From OPERATION the method may proceed to OPERATION where a programming guide list view screen may be generated including the content retrieved at OPERATION .

From OPERATION the method may end at OPERATION or proceed to OPERATIONS and where an indication of a selection to display the guide in a grid view format is received and the guide may be displayed in the grid view format or may proceed to OPERATIONS and where an indication of a selection to display the guide in a list view format is received and the guide may be displayed in the list view format.

From OPERATION the method may end at OPERATION or may proceed to OPERATIONS and where an indication of a selection to display the guide in a mosaic view format is received and the guide may be displayed in the mosaic view format or may proceed to OPERATIONS and where an indication of a selection to display the guide in a list view format is received and the guide may be displayed in the list view format.

From OPERATION the method may end at OPERATION or may proceed to OPERATIONS and where an indication of a selection to display the guide in a mosaic view format is received and the guide may be displayed in the mosaic view format or may proceed to OPERATIONS and where an indication of a selection to display the guide in a grid view format is received and the guide may be displayed in the grid view format.

The CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device keyboard or other computing device such as a tablet slate computer smart phone etc. The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items. According to embodiments the client applications may include one or more applications suitable for coordinating third party content items to the television .

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces APIs that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . The middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB may format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

According to one embodiment the set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . According to other embodiments two way communication transports may be utilized for example via high definition multimedia HDMI ports. The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a relative high frequency e.g. between 54 and 1000 megahertz. The signaling space is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted as a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. ten of digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range is generally at a lower frequency than in band signaling. For example the out of band frequency range may be between zero and 54 megahertz. Data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end also referred to as the back end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via televisions . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example content metadata a third party content provider service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded content metadata the middleware layer may be utilized to format the content metadata for receipt and use by the set top box . Therefore content metadata may be sent and categorized based on the availability to the customer s program guide data.

According to one embodiment data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box .

According to embodiments the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. According to an embodiment the customer information database may also include profile information for customers subscribers that include permissions and authentication information associated with or required for accessing and recording third party content as set out above. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

Referring still to web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . According to embodiments when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

An authentication system may include information such as secure user names subscriber profiles subscriber IDs and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate systems and may be integrated or provided in any combination of separate systems wherein shows only one example.

Although described herein in combination with various computing devices in alternative embodiments the invention may be used in combination with any number of computer systems such as in desktop environments laptop or notebook computer systems multiprocessor systems micro processor based or programmable consumer electronics networked PCs mini computers main frame computers and the like. Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment and where programs may be located in both local and remote memory storage.

Embodiments for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart or described herein with reference to . For example two processes shown or described in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data may also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable storage media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks a CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed processes may be modified in any manner including by reordering and or inserting or deleting a step or process without departing from the embodiments.

The foregoing description of exemplary embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not with this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

