---

title: Service profiles for associating data services with applications
abstract: Service profiles for associating data services with applications are described, including receiving a first input from a user identifying a first service to include in a service profile; receiving a second input from the user identifying a second service to include in the service profile, the second service is associated with the user; receiving a third input from the user defining one or more boundaries of one or more of the first service and the second service; receiving a fourth input from the user indicating association of the service profile with one of the at least one application; storing the service profile with information of the first service, the second service, and the association with the one of the at least one application; and based on the service profile, determining whether to grant access to the first service and second service by the at least one application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09330278&OS=09330278&RS=09330278
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09330278
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140923
---
This continuation application claims the benefit of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 654 823 filed Oct. 18 2012 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Users may have accounts associated with different parties. For example a user may have a social network account an online shopping account and an e mail account with each account being associated with a different party. The user may benefit from sharing the user s data from one account with another account. For example sharing the user s online shopping data with the user s social network may lead to the user being offered shopping promotions or coupons based on the user s shopping data.

However once a user shares data from his or her account with a third party account e.g. a third party application the user a second party may not know what information from the first party account is being accessed and used by the third party account. The user may not know how or when the third party account accesses or uses the user s data from the first party account.

The subject matter discussed herein relates generally to data processing and more particularly to creating and managing service profiles.

Creating and managing service profiles for associating data services with applications are described. The subject matter includes at least a computing device a computer product and a method for including receiving a first input from a user identifying a first service to include in a service profile the first service is associated with the user receiving a second input from the user identifying a second service to include in the service profile the second service is associated with the user receiving a third input from the user defining one or more boundaries of one or more of the first service and the second service wherein the service profile is to be associated with at least one application to allow the at least one application to access the first service and second service receiving a fourth input from the user indicating association of the service profile with one of the at least one application and storing the service profile with information of the first service the second service and the association with the one of the at least one application wherein the service profile is used to determine whether to grand access to the first service and second service by the at least one application.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the service profile and another service profile may be provided for displaying as icons and one of the icons representing the service profile includes a visual representation of the number of the at least one application.

In some implementations the at least one application when associated with one service may not associate with another service profile.

In some implementations the at least one application one or more services when included in a service profile may not be included in another service profile.

In some implementations the user may modify one or more services included in a service profile modify one or more boundaries of one or more services and or modify one or more applications associated with a service profile.

In some implementations associating a service profile with an application may be performed by a user dragging an icon representing the service profile to another icon representing the application or dragging an icon representing the application to another icon representing the service profile

The subject matter discussed herein provides one or more advantages. One advantage may be providing the user with transparency with respect to access of user data as well as an ability for the user to control and enforce access of user data.

The details of one or more example implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

The subject matter described herein is taught by way of example implementations. Various details have been omitted for the sake of clarity and to avoid obscuring the subject matter. Examples shown below are directed to structures and functions for creating and managing service profiles for associating data services with applications.

Described herein are example implementations of systems devices and methods that provide mechanisms e.g. user interfaces for creating and managing service profiles. The service profiles allow users to control access to users data and services by other applications e.g. third party applications . The service profiles provide users the transparency of what applications are given access to what users data.

Data associated with users can be classified into categories e.g. email data video data social network data etc. . Users may use the provided mechanisms to define one or more service profiles and the user may select one or more categories of data which may be referred to as data data stream service data service or the like to include in each of the service profiles. The user may decide which applications to associate with each of the service profiles. Once an application is associated with a service profile the application may access the categories of data included in the service profile and may not access any category of data not included in the service profile.

For example a user may define a service profile Recommendation Services to which the user may identify and add categories of data such as data from location data service social network data and data from authenticated search e.g. to personalize the user experience and search results . The user may control access by applications e.g. third party applications to data associated with the user. For example the user may create and or modify a service profile to for example turn on and off a category of data add modify or delete one or more applications e.g. third party applications associated with the service profile and or perform other configurations of the service profile.

When an application e.g. third party application requests access to data associated with a user the access request may be checked against a service profile with which the application is associated to determine whether the application has access to the user data. For example if the application requests access to the user s e mail data and the service profile defines that access to the user s e mail data is allowed by the application the application is granted access to the user s e mail data. If however the service profile does not define that the user s e mail data are a category of data the application is allowed to access the application is denied access to the user s e mail data.

As used herein the term product or service or application refers to any information data communication infrastructure organization service assistance entertainment or the like provided by one or more providers via online communication to at least one user. Examples of products services or applications may include but are not limited to online searching e commerce services maps locational data dating services online forums online platforms bulletin boards social networks websites chat rooms email communication image sharing sites video sharing sites audio sharing sites data sharing platforms data storage software tax preparation and filing gaming mobile applications news translation toolbars calendars instant messaging short message service voice phone video communication service and the like. Products services or applications may be provided on any platform or device ranging from a mobile device e.g. smartphone to a semi mobile device e.g. a laptop and to a non mobile device e.g. a kiosk television computer etc. . A product service or application may communicate to a provider or another product service or application using a wired or wireless connection.

As used herein the term website or web site or site refers to a set of web pages for providing or supporting related services. A website can be hosted on at least one computing device e.g. a system server web server application server client or any label accessible via a network or connection wired and or wireless . A website can be accessed and or supported using at least one top level Uniform Resource Locator URL e.g. abc.gov 123.org zxc.com bestads.com virtualbank.com and the like . A website can be operated and or supported by one or more business entities. For example ZXC Corporation may operate the website zxc.com that includes web pages content and or services from zxc.bestads.com e.g. advertisement services provided by another firm and virtualbank.com zxc payment services e.g. financial services provided by a financial institution .

As used herein the term online account or account refers to a product service or application associated with a user. A user may have subscribe to and or use one or more accounts or online accounts e.g. a user may have an email account a social network account a photo sharing account a video sharing account an online storage account a mobile account a blog account etc. . Each of the email service social network photo sharing service video sharing service online storage mobile service etc. can be referred to as a product service or application.

An account can be an internet or external account e.g. an end user subscribing to an openly publicly or semi publicly available service an intranet or internal account e.g. an employee subscribing to a service of a company or firm an extranet or controlled availability account e.g. an account available to vendors customers or other controlled subscribers or another type of account.

As used herein the term category or type with respect to data associated with a service profile refers to the grouping of data and services by a user. A category of data may come from a service e.g. email service a part of a service e.g. only emails to and from some users or email addresses or a combination of two of more services e.g. the combination of at least a part of one service such as email services with at least a part of another service such as calendar service or contracts management service . For example in one service profile a user may define or group incoming emails as email data excluding outgoing emails . In another service profile a user may define outgoing emails as email data excluding incoming emails . In yet another service profile a user may define all emails e.g. incoming and outgoing emails as email data. In any of these example groupings of email data or in any other example a user may include some or all of the user s address book contacts as part of email data. To further illustrate a user may define a media category of data in different service profiles to include different combinations of one or more of audio data video data photo data the metadata thereof and literal data.

User interface may show in area applications that are not in any of the privacy circles e.g. these applications have not been associated with any of the privacy circles . UI may show other information . A button may be used to create a privacy circle e.g. privacy circles may be created initially by pressing this button . A button may be pressed to initiate editing any of the privacy circles .

To create a privacy circle for example a user may press button which may lead the user to another UI for defining the privacy circle. The UI may be UI or another UI for the user to define services and data in the privacy circle and to define the categories or boundaries of the services and data. At the initial stage a service profile may be blank with respect to services applications and or boundaries. In some implementations a service profile may include default or initial set of services applications and or boundaries.

To edit a privacy circle for example the Recommendation Services privacy circle that privacy circle may be clicked on to show that it has been selected. Then button may be clicked on to start editing the selected privacy circle in UI .

After defining a service profile or privacy circle described in below a user can associate an application with the service profile by for example dragging a visual symbol that represents the application e.g. App X shown in area over another visual symbol that represents the service profile e.g. privacy circle . In some implementations the dragging may be performed in the reverse direction e.g. drag privacy circle over App X .

Any number of services and or data streams may be included in a privacy circle. For example a user may click on the Add Service s button to identify or select one or more services and or data streams for inclusion in the Recommendation Services privacy circle e.g. services and or data streams may be included by pressing this button . For illustration if the user wants to add another service e.g. Calendar Services not shown the user may press on button one or more services available to be included may be provided for the user to select the user then selects one or more of the available services the press on a Done button not shown . The Delete Service s button may be used to delete one or more services already included in the profile.

The user can use UI to define e.g. based on privacy settings boundaries of each of the one or more services and or data streams . For example the user can click on data stream labeled as Email Me to define its boundaries in the Recommendation Services privacy circle . Defining boundaries of a data steam or service defines the category of data or service. Category definition is shown in area which includes in this example email frequency label and email frequency selection .

In some implementations UI may include other controls or widgets not shown based on the selected data stream or service. For example in data stream which is related to the email data one or more widgets may be included to allow the user to select the type of email messages e.g. incoming and or outgoing email messages to be included as data stream Email Me .

The user may define the category of each of the services and or data streams and as described in data stream above. For example the user may define the boundaries of a social network data stream View Posts to limit to reading and commenting but not posting on behalf of the user define the boundaries of the location data services labeled Location Services to only share location data during work days between 9 00 AM and 6 00 PM local time define the boundaries of data stream labeled View Financial Data to allow viewing of the user s financial data but not viewing transaction data and define the boundaries of data stream Access Media to allow access of photo data but not video and audio data.

In some implementations UI may include an area that shows which third party applications have been associated with the Recommendation Services privacy circle . By associating a third party application or with a privacy circle a user grants that third party application access to the services and or data streams included in the privacy circle. The access to the services and or data streams is limited by the boundaries or category defined in the privacy circle.

In some implementations an application or a third party application may be associated with a service profile using Add Application s button . For example a user may associate an unassociated application e.g. one shown in area with privacy circle by pressing button . After which a selection window may appear listing App X Product Y and Service Z for the user to select from. The user may select one or more applications from the list e.g. Product Y to associate with privacy circle . The result may be shown as in area of .

The association of any third party applications may be removed by for example selecting that third party application and clicking on the Delete App s button .

For simplification and clarity the example is illustrated with third party applications . However the example implementations described herein including FIG. are not limited to third party applications. Applications services and or products of any party e.g. those of first party and or second party may be included. In some implementations applications provided by third parties and non third parties may be associated with a service profile. In some implementations a service profile may be created for associating exclusively with third party applications.

In some implementations where dragging in the reverse direction is implemented the user may select Product Y e.g. click on it and drag it over the privacy circle and release Product Y when it is within the hot zone of the privacy circle e.g. when the icon that represents Product Y almost touches or covers at least a portion of the icon that represents the privacy circle .

Service profile can be visually represented using any symbols or visual indicators that may look two dimensional and or three dimensional. For discussion purposes only circles e.g. privacy circles are shown. In implementations visual indicators such as shape size and or color e.g. squares rectangles triangles polygons of any shape etc. may be used. In some implementations a service profile may be represented using text e.g. Recommendation Services .

With Product Y no longer being Not in Privacy Circle area shows third party applications and and not Product Y .

At block input from the user associating the service profile with an application is received. At block after any change to the service profile such as adding deleting or modifying a service a category of service or an association with an application the service profile may be stored. Storing the service profile stores the service s included in the service profile stores the boundaries of the service s and stores the association of application s with the profile. The stored service profile can be edited deleted and or used in providing data and services access to third party applications or services.

In some examples process may be implemented with different fewer or more blocks. Process may be implemented as computer executable instructions which can be stored on a medium loaded onto one or more processors of one or more computing devices and executed as a computer implemented method.

Computing device can be communicatively coupled to input user interface and output device interface . Either one or both of input user interface and output device interface can be a wired or wireless interface and can be detachable. Input user interface may include any device component sensor or interface physical or virtual which can be used to provide input e.g. buttons touch screen interface keyboard a pointing cursor control microphone camera braille motion sensor optical reader and or the like . Output device interface may include a display television monitor printer speaker braille or the like. In some examples input user interface and output device interface can be embedded with or physically coupled to the computing device . In other examples other computing devices may function as or provide the functions of input user interface and output device interface for a computing device .

Examples of computing device may include but are not limited to highly mobile devices e.g. smartphones devices in vehicles and other machines devices carried by humans and animals and the like mobile devices e.g. tablets notebooks laptops personal computers portable televisions radios and the like and devices not designed for mobility e.g. desktop computers other computers information kiosks televisions with one or more processors embedded therein and or coupled thereto radios and the like .

Computing device can be communicatively coupled e.g. via I O interface to external storage and network for communicating with any number of networked components devices and systems including one or more computing devices of the same or different configuration. Computing device or any connected computing device can be functioning as providing services of or referred to as a server client thin server general machine special purpose machine or another label.

I O interface can include but is not limited to wired and or wireless interfaces using any communication or I O protocols or standards e.g. Ethernet 802.11x Universal System Bus WiMax modem a cellular network protocol and the like for communicating information to and or from at least all the connected components devices and networks in computing environment . Network can be any network or combination of networks e.g. the Internet local area network wide area network a telephonic network a cellular network satellite network and the like .

Computing device can use and or communicate using computer usable or computer readable media including transitory media and non transitory media. Transitory media include transmission media e.g. metal cables fiber optics signals carrier waves and the like. Non transitory media include magnetic media e.g. disks and tapes optical media e.g. CD ROM digital video disks Blu ray disks solid state media e.g. RAM ROM flash memory solid state storage and other non volatile storage or memory.

Computing device can be used to implement techniques methods applications processes or computer executable instructions for at least one implementation. Computer executable instructions can be retrieved from transitory media and stored on and retrieved from non transitory media. The executable instructions can originate from one or more of any programming scripting and machine languages e.g. C C C Java Visual Basic Python Perl JavaScript and others .

Processor s can execute under any operating system OS not shown in a native or virtual environment. One or more applications can be deployed that include logic unit application programming interface API unit input unit output unit access information manager access manager interface manager and inter unit communication mechanism for the different units to communicate with each other with the OS and with other applications not shown . For example access information manager access manager and interface manager may implement one or more systems and processes shown in . The described units and elements can be varied in design function configuration or implementation and are not limited to the descriptions provided.

In some example implementations when information or an execution instruction is received by API unit it may be communicated to one or more other units e.g. logic unit input unit output unit access information manager access manager and interface manager . For example user input may be received by interface manager which communicates the input to access information manager to create or manage a service profile. Access information manager then stores the service profile to be used by access manager to enforce access to user data and or services.

In some examples logic unit may be configured to control the information flow among the units and direct the services provided by API unit input unit output unit access information manager access manager and interface manager . For example the flow of one or more processes or implementations may be controlled by logic unit alone or in conjunction with API unit .

Although a few example implementations have been shown and described these example implementations are provided to convey the subject matter described herein to people who are familiar with this field. It should be understood that the subject matter described herein may be embodied in various forms without being limited to the described example implementations. The subject matter described herein can be practiced without those specifically defined or described matters or with other or different elements or matters not described. It will be appreciated by those familiar with this field that changes may be made in these example implementations without departing from the subject matter described herein as defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

