---

title: Magnetic-free non-reciprocal devices exhibiting non-reciprocity through angular momentum biasing
abstract: A non-reciprocal device incorporating metamaterials which exhibit non-reciprocity through angular momentum biasing. The metamaterial, such as a ring resonator, is angular-momentum biased. This is achieved by applying a suitable mechanical or spatio-temporal modulation to resonant inclusions of the metamaterial, thereby producing strong non-reciprocity. In this manner, non-reciprocity can be produced without requiring the use of large and bulky magnets to produce a static magnetic field. The metamaterials of the present invention can be realized by semiconducting and/or metallic materials which are widely used in integrated circuit technology, and therefore, contrary to magneto-optical materials, can be easily integrated into the non-reciprocal devices and large microwave or optical systems. The metamaterials of the present invention can be compact at various frequencies due to the enhanced wave-matter interaction in the constituent resonant inclusions. Additionally, by using the metamaterials of the present invention, the power consumed in the biasing network is drastically reduced.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09405136&OS=09405136&RS=09405136
owner: Board of Regents, The University of Texas System
number: 09405136
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140605
---
Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 857 580 Magnetic Free Non Reciprocal Devices Based on Metamaterials Exhibiting Non Reciprocity Through Angular Momentum Biasing filed Jul. 23 2013 and claims the benefit of its earlier filing date under 35 U.S.C. 119 e .

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. HDTRA1 12 1 0022 awarded by the Defense Threat Reduction Agency and FA9550 11 1 0009 awarded by the Air Force Office of Scientific Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates generally to non reciprocal devices and more particularly to magnetic free non reciprocal devices exhibiting non reciprocity through angular momentum biasing.

Non reciprocal devices such as isolators circulators and phase shifters are important in electrical systems such as communication networks to prevent adverse backward reflection interference and feedback. Traditionally non reciprocity in microwaves and optics is achieved by using magneto optical materials where non reciprocity is the result of biasing with a static magnetic field. By requiring the use of a static magnetic field heavy and bulky magnets are required which are difficult to integrate in the non reciprocal devices. As a result different biasing schemes have been devised in an attempt to eliminate the use of heavy and bulky magnets.

One such scheme involves the use of metamaterials based on transistor loaded ring resonators that are biased via direct current. Unfortunately such a scheme involves significant power consumption power consumption in the biasing network and the transistor itself and its operation is limited to microwave frequencies.

Another scheme involves the use of optical isolators consisting of spatially temporarily modulated waveguides that are biased via linear momentum. Unfortunately such a scheme is limited to specific applications where the spatially temporarily modulated waveguides need to be many wavelengths long. Furthermore such a scheme also involves significant power consumption in the biasing network.

In one embodiment of the present invention a non reciprocal device comprises a substrate and a metamaterial on the substrate. An angular momentum is applied to the metamaterial thereby producing non reciprocity.

In another embodiment of the present invention a non reciprocal device comprises a substrate and a periodically arranged pair of metallic rings patterned on both sides of a dielectric layer where the pair of metallic rings is formed on the substrate and where the pair of metallic rings is angular momentum biased. Furthermore the pair of metallic rings is permittivity modulated by loading the rings with time variable capacitors at equidistant azimuthal positions thereby producing non reciprocity.

In another embodiment of the present invention a non reciprocal device comprises a substrate and an angular momentum biased optical ring resonator on the substrate where the optical ring resonator is permittivity modulated.

In a further embodiment of the present invention a non reciprocal device comprises a ring of three resonators symmetrically coupled together where each of the resonators is phase shifted 120 with respect to each other and operable at either microwave light or sound waves.

In another embodiment of the present invention a non reciprocal device comprises a plurality of resonators where each of the plurality of resonators comprises a pair of capacitors where a capacitance of the pair of capacitors is equally distributed at both sides of one or more inductors connected in series to the pair of capacitors. Furthermore each of the plurality of resonators is modulated via capacitance modulation. The non reciprocal device further comprises a plurality of transmission lines coupled to the plurality of resonators.

In a further embodiment of the present invention a non reciprocal device comprises a photonic crystal comprising an array of dielectric rods. The non reciprocal device further comprises three gaps in the array of dielectric rods where light is localized in each of the three gaps in a frequency range for the gap thereby causing each of the three gaps to function as a resonator.

The foregoing has outlined rather generally the features and technical advantages of one or more embodiments of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the present invention that follows may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the present invention will be described hereinafter which may form the subject of the claims of the present invention.

As stated in the Background section non reciprocal devices such as isolators circulators and phase shifters are important in electrical systems such as communication networks to prevent adverse backward reflection interference and feedback. Traditionally non reciprocity in microwaves and optics is achieved via magneto optical materials where non reciprocity is the result of biasing with a static magnetic field. By requiring the use of a static magnetic field heavy and bulky magnets are required which are difficult to integrate in the non reciprocal devices. As a result different biasing schemes have been devised in an attempt to eliminate the use of heavy and bulky magnets. One such scheme involves the use of metamaterials based on transistor loaded ring resonators that are biased via direct current. Unfortunately such a scheme involves significant power consumption power consumption in the biasing network whose operation is limited to microwave frequencies. Another scheme involves the use of optical isolators consisting of spatially temporarily modulated waveguides that are biased via linear momentum. Unfortunately such a scheme is limited to specific applications where the spatially temporarily modulated waveguides need to be many wavelengths long. Furthermore such a scheme also involves significant power consumption in the biasing network.

The principles of the present invention provide a means for overcoming these deficiencies by developing a novel class of metamaterials that exhibit non reciprocity through angular momentum biasing. The constituent element of these metamaterials is an azimuthally spatially and temporally modulated ring resonator. As a result non reciprocity can be produced with a low frequency electrical signal in contrast to magneto optical materials requiring the use of large and bulky magnets to produce a static magnetic field. Furthermore the metamaterials of the present invention can be realized by semiconducting and or metallic materials such as silicon and gold which are widely used in integrated circuit technology and therefore contrary to magneto optical materials can be easily integrated into the non reciprocal devices. Additionally the metamaterials of the present invention can be compact at various frequencies e.g. microwave optical due to the enhanced light matter interaction in the constituent resonant inclusions. In contrast magneto optical devices can be bulky at optical frequencies due to the weak magneto optical effect at these frequencies. In addition the metamaterials of the present invention can be implemented at a wide range of frequencies such as from microwave to light in contrast to transistor based metamaterials whose operation is limited to microwave frequencies. Furthermore the metamaterials of the present invention can be more compact due to the enhanced light matter interaction of their resonant inclusions elements as opposed to spatially temporarily modulated waveguides which need to be many wavelengths long.

Additionally by using the metamaterials of the present invention the power consumed in the biasing network is drastically reduced. A discussion of non reciprocal devices implementing metamaterials exhibiting non reciprocity through angular momentum biasing is provided below in connection with . illustrates the geometry of an azimuthally symmetric ring resonator with spatio temporal ST modulated permittivity. are graphs illustrating the transformation of the states with angular momentum 1 in the frequency angular momentum plane for the modulation orbital angular momentum being 1 and 2 respectively. is a frequency diagram of the eigen states of the ring resonator of without and with spatio temporal modulation for the modulation orbital angular momentum being 2. is a graph illustrating the substate eigen frequencies versus the modulation frequency for the modulation orbital angular momentum L being 2. is a graph illustrating the substate energies versus the modulation frequency for L 2. illustrates a spatio temporal ST modulated metasurface consisting of periodically arranged pairs of broadside parallel metallic rings patterned on both sides of a thin dielectric layer. illustrates an implementation of capacitance modulation. is a graph illustrating the transmission through the unmodulated metasurface. is a graph illustrating transmission in the z direction with a capacitance modulation of 0.02 pF and a modulation frequency of 0.1 GHz. is a graph illustrating transmission in the z direction with a capacitance modulation of 0.02 pF and a modulation frequency of 0.5 GHz. is a graph illustrating the polarization rotation angle for different modulation frequencies and a capacitance modulation of 0.02 pF. is a graph illustrating the corresponding ellipticity angle for different modulation frequencies and a capacitance modulation of 0.02 pF. is a graph illustrating transmission versus frequency for an optical channel drop filter. is a graph illustrating non reciprocal transmission versus frequency for the optical channel drop filter under spatiotemporal modulation.

Referring now to the Figures in detail a possible constituent inclusion element of the metamaterial of the present invention is a simple ring resonator may also be a collection of ring resonators on a substate loaded with a spatio temporal ST azimuthally modulated permittivity as schematically shown in in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention where is the azimuthal coordinate in a cylindrical reference system co centered with the inclusion and Lis the modulation orbital angular momentum. In absence of modulation 0 ring supports degenerate counter propagating states lewith azimuthal dependence e resonating when the ring circumference is l times the guided wavelength which implies that for the fundamental 1 states used herein the ring dimensions are smaller than the wavelength. The resonant size can be further reduced by adding capacitances along the loop as in split ring resonator design. As will be shown shortly introducing suitable ST azimuthal modulation can lift the degeneracy between the 1 states and produce non reciprocity an effect that can be interpreted as the metamaterial analog of a static magnetic bias removing the degeneracy between atomic states of opposite orbital angular momenta in magnetic materials.

The proposed permittivity modulation is a type of amplitude modulation and as such it results in the generation of two intermodulation products k Leand k Lefor each state ke. If any of these products overlap in frequency with another state le resonant coupling between the k and t states occurs significantly affecting both resonances. Since the goal of the present invention is to lift the degeneracy between l states L 1 and m might appear the most reasonable choice so that the 1 state gets resonantly coupled to the 2 state while no coupling occurs for the 1 state as illustrated in . are graphs illustrating the transformation of the states with angular momentum 1 in the frequency angular momentum plane for the modulation orbital angular momentum being 1 and 2 respectively in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Specifically. illustrate the transformation of the 1 states in the frequency and angular momentum plane for L 1 and L 2 respectively. Referring to FIG. B is usually close to 2 and as a result should be close to which may be challenging to achieve especially at terahertz and optical frequencies. For L 2 in contrast the states 1 resonantly couple to each other for 0 as illustrated in . For equaling zero the structure is obviously reciprocal but any small departure from zero can break reciprocity and no matter how large is strong nonreciprocal response may be obtained by properly choosing and the resonator Q factor as will be discussed in more detail in the following.

This concept may be analyzed using coupled mode theory the amplitudes aof the 1 states satisfy the equations 

The states and are hybridizations of the non modulated ring states 1 and 1 which are generally characterized by different frequencies and amplitudes as illustrated in . is a frequency diagram of the eigen states of the ring resonator of without and with spatio temporal modulation for L 2. In the absence of modulation 0 the sub states 1 of each hybrid state share the same frequency and energy as shown in respectively and the system is reciprocal as expected. is a graph illustrating the substate eigen frequencies versus the modulation frequency for L 2 in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. is a graph illustrating the substate energies versus the modulation frequency for L 2 in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. However when modulation is introduced m 0 the sub states split see and non reciprocity arises. This splitting follows from the simultaneous spatial and temporal nature of the proposed modulation generating the states k 2eand k 2efrom ke see . Therefore if the sub state 1 exists at frequency the sub state 1 can only exist at frequency . For 0 the energy is unevenly distributed between sub states see with the unbalance increasing with . The dominant sub states for and are 1 and 1 respectively as indicated in see lines . The secondary sub states are indicated by lines in .

The amount of non reciprocity is determined by the minimum distance between sub states of opposite handedness min and by the resonance width Q where Q is the resonance quality factor corresponding to the inverse of the fractional bandwidth. In practical devices such as polarization rotators and circulators which are based on interference between states and Q is of the same order. It can be proven from Equation 3 that square root over 3 with the maximum value holding for square root over 3 . Therefore Q square root over 3 consistently with the expectation that a lower Q resonator requires a higher and subsequently a higher .

Consider now an ST modulated metasurface consisting of periodically arranged pairs of broadside parallel metallic rings patterned on both sides of a thin dielectric layer as shown in in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In one embodiment metal rings are formed on a substrate . Permittivity modulation is effectively obtained by loading the rings with time variable capacitors C Ccos t 2 at equidistant azimuthal positions n 4 where n 0 . . . 7 which is equivalent to applying a continuous capacitance modulation C 4 C cos t 2 . Notice that the modulation amplitude 4 C is the average of the localized capacitance Cover the discretization period 4 as may be intuitively expected. A possible practical implementation of this capacitance modulation is illustrated in in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention it consists of a varactor as its core element a DC biasing source an AC modulation source with frequency and appropriate filters band stop filter BSF and band pass filter BPF that minimize the interference between ring and the biasing network. Such a circuit may be easily integrated into the ring substrate within conventional printed circuit technology. Furthermore since varactors and filters are low loss components the overall power consumption is expected to be very low.

In the absence of modulation metasurface exhibits two resonances shown in the inset of in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a low Q bright mode at 23 GHz see line with parallel currents induced in the two rings and a coupled high Q dark mode at 9 GHz see line with antiparallel currents. Suitable coupling between these two modes results in a peculiar Fano resonant response at 8.9 GHz with a sharp transition from full to no transmission. This response is ideal for the purpose of the present invention since its sharp frequency response relaxes the requirements on the modulation capacitance and at the same time leads to strong non reciprocal effects because of the associated antiparallel currents in the rings maximizing the excitation of the modulation capacitors.

As expected the response is different for right handed CP RHCP see line and left handed CP LHCP excitations see line and in each case two resonant dips are observed with the stronger one resulting from coupling with the state whose dominant sub state is of the same handedness as the incident wave. RHCP incident waves strongly couple to at frequency f while LHCP waves strongly couple to at f. The weaker resonant dips correspond to the secondary sub states at f f RHCP excitation substate 1 of and f f LHCP waves 1 of . If the structure is excited from z the transmission curves of switch handedness as the incident wave feels opposite modulation spin a clear demonstration of non reciprocity. This polarization transmission asymmetry can be exploited to realize for instance a CP isolator by placing the transmission null of one polarization at the same frequency as the transmission peak of the other polarization. This condition is fulfilled for f 0.5 GHz as shown in in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. is a graph illustrating the transmission of circularly polarized CP waves through metasurface along z for C 0.02 pF and f 0.5 GHz in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Referring to at 8.91 GHz RHCP and LHCP waves see lines respectively can penetrate metasurface only from z and z respectively. This operation may be the basis of different types of polarization dependent microwave isolators.

Another important non reciprocal effect common in ferromagnetic materials is Faraday rotation i.e. the non reciprocal rotation of the polarization plane of a wave as it propagates through the material. The rotation is opposite for opposite propagation directions as it is determined by the fixed bias direction. One can achieve the same effect in the proposed ST modulated metasurface see as shown in which plots the polarization rotation angle for different fand C 0.02 pF in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As the modulation frequency increases increases and the bandwidth decreases. The bandwidth reduction is clearly due to the decrease of as fincreases but the monotonic increase of may seem contradictory with the fact that the separation between states which determines the amount of non reciprocity is actually reduced as fincreases. This peculiar monotonic increase of results from the fact that at resonance the transmission coefficient for x polarized waves Tdecreases faster than the transmission coefficient of x to y polarized waves T so that T T which is proportional to actually increases. For f 0.5 GHz Tis maximum and 60 corresponding to a giant rotation of 6000 per free space wavelength without any magnetic bias. is a graph illustrating the ellipticity angle at the output for linearly polarized inputs in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in ellipticity angle is zero at the frequency of maximum implying that the transmitted field is linearly polarized making the proposed metasurface particularly exciting for applications requiring non reciprocal linear polarization rotation.

As previously discussed the proposed scheme of ST modulation with L 2 poses no restriction on the modulation frequency opening the possibility to apply the proposed concept to optical frequencies. As a proof of concept an optical isolator based on an ST modulated channel drop filter was designed with the following geometrical parameters of the optical isolator shown in R radius of optical ring resonator 0.88 a w width of channel drop waveguide 0.2 a and g gap between ring and waveguide 0.3 a where a is an arbitrary reference length. For operation with a wavelength of 1.55 m the corresponding absolute values are a 1.04 m R 0.92 m w 0.21 m and f 60 GHz. The modulation frequency for the case of discussed further below is f 2 10 c a where c is the speed of light. The optical isolator of includes an optical ring resonator which is between a set of waveguides channel waveguide with ports 1 and 2 and drop waveguide with ports 3 and 4 . Optical isolator of is formed on a substrate . When light of a resonant wavelength is passed through the loop from the input waveguide e.g. waveguide it builds up in intensity over multiple round trips in ring resonator due to constructive interference and is output to the output waveguide e.g. waveguide which serves as a detector waveguide. The discussion of the operation of optical ring resonator will be discussed below in connection with . is a graph illustrating transmission versus frequency without modulation for optical ring resonator discussed above in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. is a graph illustrating non reciprocal transmission versus frequency with spatio temporal ST modulation turned on for the optical isolator discussed above in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

As shown in without modulation the power entering structure through the channel waveguide from either port 1 or 2 couples to the right or left handed ring resonance respectively creating a transmission dip at resonance. Splitting the ring resonances with proper azimuthal ST modulation moves the transmission dips to different frequencies for opposite propagation directions thus creating non reciprocity. The isolator can be realized on silicon Si which exhibits the strongest electro optic effect observed to date with typical values around 5 10 where is its permittivity leading to 2.5 10. Such permittivity modulation can be obtained using PIN diodes. According to the bandwidth criterion QC square root over 3 a Q factor 7 000 would be sufficient for adequate separation of the and states. Such level of Q factor is common in Si photonics integrated systems and in the design of it is achieved using the 11 th azimuthal resonance of ring . Although the theory above was derived for the 1 states it can be easily extended to any pair of states l by substituting L 2 with L 2l. Therefore L 22 in the design of optical isolator which may be achieved by uniformly integrating 88 PIN diodes along the ring perimeter of ring leading to a separation of 65 nm between consecutive diodes. It should be noted that this design has not been optimized and that a significantly lower number of PIN diodes may be still sufficient to achieve a similar effect in optimized geometries.

The simulated scattering parameters of the structure without and with modulation are presented in respectively. In the absence of modulation S S Sbeing the transmission coefficient from port j to port i meaning that the system is reciprocal. When the modulation is applied the right and left handed resonances of the ring split and non reciprocity occurs as shown in . For instance at the right handed resonance indicated in with the dashed line transmission from port 1 to 2 is significantly lower than transmission from port 2 to 1 an effect that can also be seen in the corresponding field plots in the inset. This operation is obtained within a ring structure that is comparable in size to the operation wavelength 1.55 m and without the need of magnetic bias.

The principles of the present invention provide a new paradigm to achieve magnetic free non reciprocity via angular momentum biasing based on resonant rings with specifically tailored ST azimuthal modulation. The proposed form of modulation removes the degeneracy between opposite resonant states which combined with suitably induced high Q response realizes giant non reciprocity in subwavelength components with moderate modulation frequencies and amplitudes. A few applications based on this approach have been presented including an ultrathin radio frequency isolator giant Faraday rotation and an optical isolator all realized without requiring bulky magnetic biasing elements. The proposed approach opens pathways towards non reciprocal integrated microwave and nanophotonic components for a variety of applications.

In another embodiment of the present invention spatiotemporal biasing is used to generate the electrical rotation necessary for angular momentum biasing as discussed further below. Such an approach adds several benefits including but not limited to being compact scalable in frequency fully compatible with complex integrated circuits inherently linear and consisting of completely passive components.

When a three port resonator is biased with a magnetic field as seen in the degenerate counter rotating modes are split leading to the non reciprocal response required in a circulator. illustrates magnetically biased three port junction resulting in a non reciprocal scattering response in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. This approach is generally used to realize ferromagnetic based circulators. The angular momentum biasing technique relies on electrical rotation which may be realized in several designs. The spatiotemporal biasing technique may be applied to both microstrip and lumped element resonators as shown in B . B illustrate an angular momentum biased ring circulator and spatiotemporally modulated lumped circuit circulator in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Modulation of the capacitance of the ring electrically emulates the angular momentum spin. At microwave frequencies such a modulation is implemented by loading the ring with varactors. Other modulation techniques such as with micromechanical capacitors or FET based variable capacitors are available but ease of integration and cost considerations led to the choice of varactors for the microwave frequency designs.

The conditions for maximum isolation in a circulator may be derived from temporal coupled mode theory as square root over 3 1 4 where fis the modulation frequency fthe carrier frequency Q is the quality factor of the resonator and is the coupling coefficient between the counter rotating modes introduced by the angular momentum biasing.

A three port microstrip ring resonator was designed and simulated to operate at approximately 885 MHz. Based on the design principles in Equation 4 the modulation frequency was set to 4.5 MHz. The results from the simulation confirmed the non reciprocal response with over 38 dB isolation from the two output ports. The scattering parameters with and without angular momentum biasing are shown in . is a graph of the simulated results for the magnitude of the transmission coefficients in a microstrip resonator designed following the same principle as in discussed below in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Without angular modulation AM biasing the transmission magnitude is the same in the two output ports black line and marker regardless of direction. When the modulation signal is applied the degenerate modes are split leading to 38 dB isolation at 885 MHz. The physical layout of the ring resonator with coupling ports is shown in the inset of .

Referring to in one embodiment the RF signal is sent to ports 1 2 and 3 of ring resonator the DC signal is sent to ports A C and the modulation signal is sent to ports A C.

Without modulation the transmission response is reciprocal with the magnitude identical regardless of direction of propagation and reduced compared to the modulated case due to splitting of the power between the two output ports. When the modulation is turned on however large isolation and strong non reciprocal response is achieved without relying on any magnetic material or bias.

Hence the spatiotemporal azimuthal biasing method presented herein to produce effective angular momentum in a resonant ring was shown to effectively realize strong non reciprocal response without requiring ferromagnetic materials or external magnetic bias. Passive reciprocal resonators were experimentally shown to provide over 38 dB of isolation when the angular momentum biasing technique was applied.

The angular momentum biasing concept is not only fully integratable in printed circuit board technology but it is also largely tunable and scalable the same approach may be applied even to the terahertz and optical spectra. The angular momentum biasing method provides a scalable cost effective and compatible solution for conventional non reciprocal components. These results are believed to pave the way to a new route to replace conventional magnetically biased non reciprocal isolators circulators and phase shifters with fully integrated components.

In another embodiment of the present invention non reciprocity is based on modulated coupled resonators thereby providing a different way to efficiently induce large non reciprocity in a deeply subwavelength device based on angular momentum biasing. In this embodiment the trade off between fabrication complexity and non reciprocal effects is overcome. Furthermore in this embodiment non reciprocity is demonstrated with 100 modulation efficiency and only 3 separate modulation regions. The proposed ring structure is shown in . illustrates a ring structure consisting of three strongly coupled identical and symmetrically coupled resonant tanks A C with resonance frequency A and coupling factor A in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Resonant tanks A C may collectively or individually be referred to as resonant tanks or resonant tank respectively. Modulation is applied here on the resonant frequencies of the individual tanks so that they deviate from their static values as t cos t t cos t 2 3 and t cos t 4 3 with the modulation amplitude. Without modulation such a device supports two degenerate counter rotating modes. When modulation is switched on however the degeneracy is lifted and non reciprocity is produced. The experimental evidence provided herein is in the radio frequency RF band but this approach is applicable to any frequency band and even to different types of waves since no assumption is made whatsoever about the type of resonators.

In the absence of modulation 0 the ring of supports three states a common one with state vector c 1 1 1 and frequency 2 and two degenerate right and left handed ones with state vectors 1 ee and frequencies . The components of the state vectors provide the complex amplitudes of the three resonators. The applied modulation mixes right and left handed states producing two new hybrid states

For 0 the sub states of each hybrid state have different amplitudes indicating the existence of a dominant and a secondary sub state for each hybrid state and are the dominant sub states of R and L respectively. The dominant sub states support non reciprocity while the secondary ones result in intermodulation products at frequencies for an incident signal with frequency . In a proper design these by products should fall outside the band of interest so that they can be easily filtered out. Such a requirement is satisfied if is larger than the bandwidth of the input signal thus setting a lower limit on in practical applications. It can be seen from that the power distributed to the secondary sub states i.e. the intermodulation product decreases as increases however with a simultaneous decrease of the frequency separation between the dominant sub states. A smaller generally requires a higher Q factor for the coupled resonator indicating a trade off between intermodulation suppression and overall bandwidth. is a frequency diagram of the hybrid states R and L of the modulated ring versus in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The thickness of the lines represents the energy carried by the sub states of the hybrid states.

The structure of was realized at RF using three simple L C tanks as in where the capacitance C is equally distributed at both sides of the inductance L to maintain a symmetric structure. illustrates the constituent resonator of the ring an L C tank with modulated capacitance in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

Referring to capacitance is equally distributed at both sides of the inductance for symmetry purposes. Capacitance modulation is achieved via varactor diodes controlled by a static signal Vand the modulation signal t . The resonance frequency modulation is achieved via capacitance modulation commonly obtained in RF with varactor diodes. These diodes are biased by two signals a static one V which provides the required reverse bias to the diodes and controls their static capacitance and an RF one with frequency and amplitude V providing the modulation. Assuming that resonators are coupled to each other through a capacitance C as in the frequencies of the common and rotating states read square root over 1 2C C and square root over C 3C 2 C 2C respectively where 1 square root over LC is the resonance frequency of each tank. illustrates a ring formed by three identical resonators A C coupled through three identical capacitances CA C in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Resonators A C may collectively or individually be referred to as resonators or resonator respectively. Each resonator A C is configured similarly as resonator of except being further coupled to an external microstrip transmission line A C through capacitances A C respectively. Capacitances A C may collectively or individually be referred to as capacitances or capacitance respectively. Transmission lines A C may collectively or individually be referred to as transmission lines or transmission line respectively. Capacitances A C may collectively or individually be referred to as capacitances or capacitance respectively.

Referring to if the amplitude of the capacitance modulation is C the frequency modulation amplitude is found as C 2C . Note that C and consequently m are proportional to V. Furthermore it was observed that and are different from the predictions of the coupled mode analysis for the general structure of a known issue related to the dependence of the average frequency of a coupled system on the coupling element which however does not affect the validity of Equation 5 and the subsequent analysis. As it will become clearer in the following should be as far as possible from in order for the common mode not to affect the operation of the structure at where non reciprocity occurs. In the lumped element circuit of this condition is satisfied by taking C or equivalently coupling the tanks through a short circuit yielding 0 and square root over 3 2.

The non reciprocal response of the circuit of is demonstrated by capacitively coupling it to three microstrip transmission lines to realize a three port device. Exciting the structure from e.g. port 1 at frequency results in the excitation of R and L with same amplitude and opposite phase due to the symmetrical distribution of these states around . Then the signals at ports 2 and 3 are proportional to ee eeand ee ee respectively as the superposition of R and L at these ports. If and are selected so that 6 the signal at port 3 is identically zero while the one at port 2 is non zero indicating routing of the incident power from port 1 to port 2. Due to the symmetry of the structure with respect to its ports incident power from ports 2 and 3 is similarly routed to ports 3 and 1 thus realizing the functionality of a circulator with infinite isolation. Notice that the preceding description assumes a weak excitation of the common state which makes clear the importance of choosing its resonance frequency as far as possible from the resonance frequency of the rotating states.

Referring to ports 1 2 and 3 provide access to ring for the RF and modulation signals. Ports 4 5 and 6 provide access to ring for the static biasing voltage. Elements are effective for the RF signal whereas elements are effective for the modulation signal. A detail description of the circuit is provided below.

Ring is designed to resonate at two frequencies the modulation frequency fand the radio frequency RF f. As a result three additional ports are avoided for feeding the modulation signals and filters that prevent the RF signal to leak into the modulation ports and vice versa thus significantly simplifying the design. The modulation and RF frequencies are respectively determined by elements and elements in respectively. In particular 

Equation 6 holds when the impedance of Land Lare respectively much smaller than the corresponding of Cand Cat . Similarly Equation 7 holds when the impedance of Land Lare respectively much larger than the corresponding of Cand Cat . These conditions are summarized in the expressions

Equation 8 implies that the inductors Land the capacitors Care short and open circuits for the modulation signal at w. On the other hand Equation 9 implies that the capacitors Cand the inductors Lare short and open circuits for the RF signal at . In practice Equations 8 and 9 are considered to hold if

The capacitance Cis the static capacitance of the varactors. For the varactor model used in the design of the present invention Skyworks SMV 1237 and for a static bias voltage of 3 V C 30 pF. Then if f 150 MHz Lis found from Equation 7 as L 28 nH. Subsequently for the minimum value of 10 f 15 MHz. L 370 nH and C 400 pF.

The capacitors Cand the inductors Lprovide the coupling of the RF and modulation signals to ring . Similar to the resonant elements of ring the following conditions should hold in order for the RF and modulation signals to couple only through Cand L respectively 

Observe that as before Equations 13 and 14 mutually hold if . The coupling capacitance Cdetermines the Q factor of ring . For obtaining strong non reciprocity Q leading to Q 10 since 10 . Having selected the value of Cwhich provides the desired Q factor Lcan be calculated from Equation 14 .

The inductors Lare used to prevent the RF and modulation signals from leaking to the DC source. For this purpose any value larger than 1 m is sufficient. Indeed the impedance of Lat the RF frequency of 150 MHz is 943 which is much larger than the impedance 35 of the varactor meaning that the RF signal mainly flows through the varactor. Similarly the impedance of Lat the modulation frequency of 15 MHz is 94 which is fairly larger than the impedance 35 of the inductance L meaning that the modulation signal mainly flows through L. The capacitance Cblocks the DC signal from leaking to the ground through L while appearing as a short circuit at RF and modulation frequencies. A value of 10 F corresponding to an impedance of 1 m and 0.1 m at 15 MHz and 150 MHz respectively is enough for this purpose.

The values of the lumped elements used in the fabricated layout are listed in a table shown in in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Notice that these values are slightly different than the ones calculated before due to restrictions in the available commercial elements. Elements are of 0603 and 0805 surface mount technology SMT . Furthermore the circuit was fabricated in a FR4 substate and the external microstrip lines as well as the ones connecting the elements between themselves were designed to have a characteristic impedance of 50 .

A description of the experimental setup is discussed below in connection with . illustrates the experimental setup in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As illustrated in in conjunction with the static biasing of ring is provided by a DC power supply whose output is connected to ports 4 5 and 6 of ring . For the generation of the modulation signals a single waveform generator is used. The output of generator is split evenly into three signals through a power divider and then routed to three phase shifters A C which provide the necessary phase difference of 120 between the modulation signals. Phase shifters A C are powered with a second DC source and potentiometers not shown are used to control their phase. The outputs of phase shifters A C are connected to the low pass ports A C of three diplexers A C in order to combine the modulation signals with the RF ones. The high pass ports A C of two of the diplexers A C are connected to the ports of a vector network analyzer while the high pass port B of diplexer B is terminated to a matched load . The outputs of diplexers A C are led to the ports 1 2 and 3 of ring . Rotating diplexers A C where the VNA ports are connected allows for the measurement of all the S parameters of the circuit. The equipment used during the measurement of ring is listed in a table shown in in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

The realized device was designed to resonate at 170 MHz with a Q factor of about 10 for V 1.99 V and V 0. The modulation frequency was set to 15 MHz in order for the modulation by products to fall outside the resonance band whose bandwidth is here around 15 MHz. A photograph of the fabricated prototype can be found in in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Without modulation the signal from each port is equally split to the other two ports as expected from symmetry and the system is fully reciprocal as illustrated in . is a graph illustrating the measured transmission from port 1 to ports 2 and 3 for no modulation V 0 V where the power is equally split to the output ports ports 2 and 3 as illustrated in the inset representing circulator of in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The subscripts to the S parameters or scattering parameters as shown in and in other Figures as well as discussed below represent the ports where the first number represents the final port and the second number represents the initial port in connection with the measured transmission.

When the modulation signal is switched on this symmetry is broken and power is unequally split to the two output ports. By varying the modulation amplitude it is possible to find a value for which all the power entering the ring from port 1 is routed to port 3 corresponding to the 6 condition previously described. This is visible in showing the measured S parameters of the structure for V 0.6 V. is a graph illustrating the measured scattering parameters when V 0.6 V in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As illustrated in incident power to ports 1 2 and 3 is transmitted to ports 3 1 and 2 respectively thus realizing a three port circulator as illustrated in the inset representing circulator . At the resonance frequency of 170 MHz power incident to ports 1 2 and 3 is routed to ports 2 3 and 1 demonstrating the operation of an ideal magnetic free deeply subwavelength linear circulator.

For comparison presents the S parameters obtained through combined full wave and circuit simulations in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. All the results in refer to V 1.99 V.

In order to get deeper insights in the effect of Von the device operation presents the transmission between ports 1 and 2 at resonance versus V. is a graph of the measured and simulated transmission between ports 1 and 2 in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As illustrated in transmission is different for opposite propagation directions indicating non reciprocity. For V 0 S Sas expected. Increasing Vresults in a decrease of Sand an increase of Suntil V 0.6 V where S 0. As mentioned above this is the point where 6 i.e. where the counter rotating modes interfere destructively at port 2. Past this point Sand Sincrease and decrease respectively as expected when we depart from the destructive interference condition. For very large values of V S and Stend to zero since the counter rotating states move far from each other and therefore are weakly excited at . The magnitude of the asymmetry between Sand Scan be measured from the isolation S S plotted in in logarithmic scale versus V. is a graph of the isolation S S in a logarithmic scale in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. As illustrated in for the optimum modulation voltage V 0.6 V Sis over 4 orders of magnitude larger than S indicating extremely strong non reciprocity above the levels of commercial magnetic based devices. All the results in refer to V 1.99 V.

Another key property of this realized device is its unique real time tunability features. The biasing voltage V which provides the necessary reverse biasing condition for the operation of the varactor diodes determines their static capacitance. Therefore Vcan be used to actively control the static resonance frequency of the L C tanks and consequently the band over which non reciprocity occurs. shows the measured isolation versus frequency for Vvaried between 1.73 V and 4.5 V in a logarithmic scale in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Referring to in each case Vis appropriately adjusted so that isolation at resonance becomes maximum. It is clear that the non reciprocal response of the device of the present invention can be efficiently tuned between 150 MHz and 210 MHz corresponding to a relative bandwidth of over 30 . Across all this range the measured isolation is above 40 dB and it even reaches 60 dB for V 4.5 V. This strong tuning capability is an additional advantage of the device compared to conventional magnetic based microwave circulators and it may be exploited in scenarios requiring dynamic tuning to balance changes in temperature or in the environment.

In addition to being an ideal replacement for conventional microwave non reciprocal components with significant advantages in terms of size integration cost linearity and noise reduction the findings presented herein become particularly relevant if translated to integrated nanophotonic technology for which optical non reciprocal components may become of crucial importance for laser protection and signal routing. The approach discussed herein is applicable to any frequency of the electromagnetic spectrum and therefore also to light as discussed further below in connection with . At such frequencies electro optic modulation in silicon based components is typically achieved via carrier injection depletion. Although such technology can provide quite strong permittivity modulation it is accompanied by significant loss and low modulation frequencies for large modulation amplitudes. These side effects impose severe limitations on the applicability of the principle of angular momentum biasing in its original form based on uniform micro ring resonators. As previously explained the strength of angular momentum based non reciprocity is contingent upon the quality factor of the ring resonators and their modulation frequency. Micro ring resonators exhibit poor modulation efficiency and as a result they require strong modulation. Strong modulation in turn typically degrades the quality factor and limits the modulation frequency thus also restricting the magnitude of the attainable non reciprocity. On the other hand the concept presented here ensures a modulation efficiency of 100 significantly relaxing the requirements in terms of the modulation amplitude. This in turn allows large quality factors and large modulation frequencies which directly translate into strong non reciprocal response in deeply subwavelength devices. Furthermore the introduced approach can be readily applied to photonic crystal technology for which efficient high Q coupled cavities may be easily implemented and efficiently modulated.

Referring to illustrates a photonic crystal used for building resonators for light in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. Photonic crystal includes an array of dielectric rods which prevents light propagation in a particular frequency range or photonic bandgap. Photonic crystal further includes defects or gaps A C such as three of them as shown in between these dielectric rods . Light is localized i.e. light cannot escape at these gaps A C for frequencies in the photonic bandgap of the array of dielectric rods. In this manner gaps A C can function as a resonator. Gaps A C can be modulated via electrical or optical means. Gaps A C are also coupled to three external ports through three waveguides formed by removing three series of dielectric rods in the photonic crystal.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

