---

title: Functionality watermarking and management
abstract: A method, system and non-transitory computer-readable medium product are provided for functionality watermarking and management. In the context of a method, a method is provided that includes identifying a request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of at least one user device and determining whether the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device is authorized. The method further includes authorizing the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device in response to a determination that the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device is authorized.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09552463&OS=09552463&RS=09552463
owner: AirWatch LLC
number: 09552463
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140505
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 959 899 filed on Aug. 6 2013 entitled FUNCTIONALITY WATERMARKING AND MANAGEMENT now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 806 217 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 934 386 filed Jul. 3 2013 entitled FUNCTIONALITY WATERMARKING AND MANAGEMENT now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 756 426 the entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes as if fully set forth herein.

Functionality Watermarking and Management provides determining whether identified requests to establish an association between watermark templates and functions of user devices are authorized. Additionally Functionality Watermarking and Management provides authorizing an establishment of an association between watermark templates and functions of user devices in response to determinations that respective requests are authorized. In some situations requests to establish an association between watermark templates and functions of user devices should not be permitted. Conventional approaches do not address this problem but rather freely allow associations to be established between watermark templates and functions of user devices.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is neither intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is this Summary intended to limit the claimed subject matter s scope.

A method apparatus and non transitory computer readable medium product are provided for functionality watermarking and management. In the context of a method a method is provided that includes identifying a request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of at least one user device and determining whether the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device is authorized. The method further includes authorizing the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device in response to a determination that the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device is authorized.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are examples and explanatory only and should not be considered to restrict the disclosure s scope as described and claimed. Further features and or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example embodiments of the disclosure may be directed to various feature combinations and sub combinations described in the detailed description.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar elements. While embodiments of the disclosure may be described modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the elements illustrated in the drawings and the methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the disclosure. Instead the proper scope of the disclosure is defined by the appended claims.

Functionality watermarking and management may be provided. Functions of user devices may include but are not limited to hardware functions such as camera functions software functions such as voice activated functions and application functions such as containerized document access and or annotation functions. Functions of user devices may have access to resources stored on the user devices and or stored on servers communicatively coupled to the user devices which may be utilized during the execution of the functions of the user devices. To ensure the security of functions of user devices and or resources accessible to functions of user devices watermark templates may be applied to such functions and or resources.

Watermark templates may describe and or control the use of functions of user devices and or resources accessible to functions of user devices. Watermark templates may be compiled of watermark template elements which may include for example descriptive data elements naming convention elements and storage structure convention elements. Some watermark template elements such as descriptive data elements may secure functions of user devices and or resources accessible to functions of user devices by for instance describing such functions and or resources as sensitive. Some other watermark template elements such as naming convention elements and storage structure convention elements may secure functions of user devices and or resources accessible to functions of user devices by for example restricting the use of such functions and or resources to secure uses.

Applying watermark templates to functions of user devices and or resources accessible to such functions requires that an association between such watermark templates and such functions and or such resources be established to provide a basis for determining which watermark templates should be applied to which functions and or which resources. In other words there must be a relationship established between watermark templates and functions of user devices and or resources accessible to functions of user devices to facilitate an application of such watermark templates to such functions and or such resources. To prevent unauthorized associations from being established between watermark templates and functions of user devices and or resources accessible to functions of user devices an IT administrator may configure compliance rules that must be satisfied before an association may be established between watermark templates and functions of user devices and or resources accessible to functions of user devices.

This process may be implemented through a method that identifies a request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of at least one user device determines whether the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device is authorized and authorizes the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device in response a determination that the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device is authorized.

Basic functionality of user device may be provided by an operating system contained in memory . One or more programmed software applications may be executed by utilizing the computing resources in user device . Applications stored in memory may be executed by processor e.g. a central processing unit or digital signal processor under the auspices of operating system . For example processor may be configured to execute applications such as web browsing applications email applications instant messaging applications and or other applications capable of receiving and or providing data.

Data provided as input to and generated as output from the application s may be stored in memory and read by processor from memory as needed during the course of application program execution. Input data may be data stored in memory by a secondary application or other source either internal or external to user device or possibly anticipated by the application and thus created with the application program at the time it was generated as a software application program. Data may be received via any of a plurality of communication ports A C of user device . Communication ports A C may allow user device to communicate with other devices and may comprise components such as an Ethernet network adapter a modem and or a wireless network connectivity interface. For example the wireless network connectivity interface may comprise at least one of a PCI Peripheral Component Interconnect card USB Universal Serial Bus interface PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association card SDIO Secure Digital Input Output card NewCard Cardbus a modem a wireless radio transceiver and or the like.

User device may also receive data as user input via an input component such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a stylus a sound input device a touch input device a capture device etc. A capture device may be operative to record user s and capture spoken words motions and or gestures such as with a camera and or microphone. The capture device may comprise any speech and or motion detection device capable of detecting the speech and or actions of the user s .

Data generated by applications may be stored in memory by the processor during the course of application program execution. Data may be provided to the user during application program execution by means of a display . Consistent with embodiments of this disclosure display may comprise an integrated display screen and or an output port coupled to an external display screen.

Memory may also comprise a platform library . Platform library may comprise a collection of functionality useful to multiple applications such as may be provided by an application programming interface API to a software development kit SDK . These utilities may be accessed by applications as necessary so that each application does not have to contain these utilities thus allowing for memory consumption savings and a consistent user interface.

Memory may further comprise a data store within which user device may store a plurality of user device files. User device may for instance store in the data store a device profile . Device profile may comprise one or more indications of the state of user device . For instance device profile may represent device identifiers unique to user device user identifiers and or credentials associated with one or more users of user device hardware features and or components of user device version and configuration information of various software features and applications installed on user device data transmission protocols enabled on user device version and usage information of various resources stored on user device and or any other attributes associated with the state of user device . The device profile may further comprise data indicating a date of last virus scan of user device a date of last access by an IT representative a date of last service by the IT representative and or any other data indicating maintenance and usage of user device . Moreover the device profile may comprise indications of the past behavior of associated users such as accesses to one or more resource charges for such accesses and the inventory accessed from such resources . Furthermore device profile may indicate a current location associated with user device and or a home location associated with user device . Similarly device profile may indicate a current time associated with user device and or a home time associated with user device such as a time associated with a home location associated with user device . Device profile may for example comprise data accessible to user device via functions of user device such as GPS location data and or via remote services communicatively coupled to user device such as current time data provided by a remote time service.

User device may be operable to perform at least one function. Functions of the user device may include hardware functions software functions and applications executed by the user device . Hardware functions may include functions performed by hardware built in to the user device such as camera functions microphone functions video playback functions and or the like. Hardware functions may further include functions performed by hardware communicatively coupled to the user device such as Google Glass functions printer functions scanner functions and or other functions performed by peripheral devices. Software functions may include functions performed by software features of the user device such as Siri and or similar voice activated functions that control the user device without physical input to the user device . Furthermore applications may include containerized applications configured for secure resource distribution and access secure browser applications enterprise developed applications applications wrapped with application wrappers and or other applications executable by the user device .

Functions of user device may have access to at least one resource . Resources may be utilized by functions of the user device when the user device performs the functions. In certain embodiments functions of user device may access existing resources required for execution of the functions. For instance Google Glass functions may require access to GPS resources provided by a GPS sensor of the user device which may be paired with the Google Glass functions via a Bluetooth sensor for the Google Glass functions to perform navigation functionality. In some embodiments functions of user device may create new resources when executing the functions. For example a camera function of the user device may create photo and or video resources while executing the camera function.

User device may store at least one resource in the data store . Resources for instance may include any electronic data such as databases applications text files word processor files spreadsheet files presentation files graphic files audio files photographic files video files applications and application files and or the like. More specifically resources may include at least one of the following file types data files audio files video files three dimensional image files raster image files vector image files page layout files spreadsheet files database files executable files CAD files web files plug in files font files system files settings files encoded files compressed files disk image files developer files backup files and or any other files. User device may also access at least one resource stored in a resource server and or another server communicatively coupled to user device as described herein.

In certain embodiments functions of the user device may be associated with an enterprise and or may be personal to a user of the user device . Similarly resources accessible to functions of the user device may be associated with an enterprise and or may be personal to a user of the user device . In some embodiments user devices may be utilized to perform both enterprise and personal functions of the user device and access both enterprise and personal resources . In particular a user device personal to a user of the user device may be configured for additional enterprise use for instance via through an enterprise bring your own device BYOD deployment model. An enterprise may for instance employ a BYOD resource access model to lower the cost of providing its employees with access to enterprise functions and or resources . Additionally an enterprise may for example employ a BYOD resource access model to prevent the need for an employee to carry an additional enterprise specific user device to access enterprise functions and or resources . Functionality Watermarking and Management may ensure amongst other benefits that enterprise functions and or resources are not compromised when accessed by a user device with further access to personal functions and or resources and vice versa.

User device may further store at least one watermark template in the data store . Watermark templates may include an arrangement of data and or a file containing such arranged data. In certain embodiments watermark templates may include description data such as data that describes the watermark templates and or other elements associated with the watermark templates as described herein. In some embodiments watermark templates may include configuration data such as data that configures the watermark templates and or other elements associated with the watermark templates as described herein.

In certain embodiments watermark templates may be associated with at least one of at least one function of the user device at least one resource accessible to at least one function of at least one user device at least one user device at least one user of at least one user device and at least one enterprise. In particular watermark templates may be associated such that there is a relationship between the watermark templates and the certain functions resources user devices users of user devices and enterprises. In some embodiments an administrator such as an administrator of a watermark template server may associate certain watermark templates with certain functions resources user devices users of user devices and enterprises. As an example an administrator of a watermark template server may utilize a web based console application to specify certain watermark templates to associate with certain functions resources user devices users of user devices and enterprises.

Watermark templates may include descriptive data elements that describe functions of the user device resources accessible to the functions of the user device the user device users of the user device and or enterprises. In particular descriptive data elements may include one or more properties associated with such functions of the user device such resources accessible to such functions of the user device such user devices such users of such user devices and such enterprises. Additionally watermark templates may include one or more source identifiers describing a creator and or distributor of the watermark templates timestamps associated with various actions performed with respect to the watermark templates and locations associated with various actions performed with respect to the watermark templates . As an example descriptive data elements may include statements indicating the identities of users of user devices that have performed functions the state of security settings on user devices that have performed functions the time and location associated user devices that have performed functions the ownership by an enterprise of resources accessed by functions and or the like.

Properties associated with functions of user devices may include for instance at least one of prior functions performed on such user devices sensitivity levels of such functions of such user devices and or security requirements associated with such functions of such user devices . In particular properties associated with prior function performances may include a timestamp and location describing when and where a user device last performed a camera function properties associated with function sensitivity levels may identify the camera function as FOR CLASSIFIED USE ONLY and properties associated with function security requirements may include a requirement that a source identifier identifying a user device and or a user of a user device that performs the camera function be captured upon the user device performing the camera function.

Properties associated with resources accessible to functions of user devices may include for instance at least one of prior functions accessing such resources sensitivity levels of such resources and or security requirements associated with such resources as described herein. In particular properties associated with prior functions accessing such resources may identify an application on a user device that last edited a resource properties associated with resource sensitivity levels may identify a resource as PRIVILEGED AND CONFIDENTIAL and properties associated with resource security requirements may include a requirement that a resource can only be accessed by a user device while the user device is located at an enterprise facility associated with the resource .

Properties associated with user devices may specify and or describe for example at least one user device identifier user device hardware feature user device software feature user device application current time associated with such user devices current location associated with such user devices and home location associated with such user devices . As an example properties associated with user devices may include a listing of hardware features active on a user device and or accessible to a user device at a current time associated with the user device and a current location associated with a user device at a current time associated with the user device . In particular a current time associated with a user device may be identified via the system clock of the user device and a current location associated with a user device may be identified via a GPS sensor of the user device . Properties associated with user device may further include a determination of whether the user device complies with at least one compliance rule based at least in part on a device profile describing the state of the user device as described herein.

Properties associated with users of user devices may include for example at least one user identifier user credential user role identifier enterprise identifier current time associated with the user current location associated with the user and home location associated with the user. User role identifiers may for instance specify a job title job function and or the like describing the role of the user with respect to an enterprise. Enterprise identifiers may for example specify an enterprise affiliated with a user such as an enterprise that employs the user and or provides resource access to the user. Current times associated with a user and current locations associated with a user may for instance specify a current time and or current location associated with the user device associated with the user. Home locations associated with a user may for instance specify a primarily location of a user such as a location where the user resides and or a location where the user is employed.

Properties associated with an enterprise may include for instance at least one facility location of the enterprise phone number of the enterprise employee of the enterprise executive of the enterprise business type of the enterprise industry of the enterprise and or other data describing the enterprise. Furthermore descriptive data elements of a watermark template may include at least one of a source identifier a timestamp and a location. A source identifier may specify for instance a user device an administrator and or an enterprise associated with the creation of and or modification of a watermark template . A timestamp may identify for example a time and date when a watermark template was created modified and or associated. Similarly a location may identify a geographic location where a watermark template was created modified and or associated.

Watermark templates may include such descriptive data elements by virtue of the association between the watermark templates and such functions of the user device resources accessible to the functions of the user device the user device users of the user device or enterprises. In certain embodiments watermark templates may include descriptive data elements that are populated based at least in part on such functions of the user device resources accessible to the functions of the user device the user device users of the user device or enterprises. For example watermark templates may be populated by querying and or analyzing the characteristics and or state of such functions of the user device resources accessible to the functions of the user device the user device users of the user device or enterprises as described herein.

In certain embodiments a watermark template may include descriptive data elements that are determined and or identified at the time the watermark template is to be utilized and or associated. In particular a watermark template may be dynamically composed such that the watermark template includes dynamic descriptive data elements that are accurate at the time the watermark template is viewed applied and or otherwise used by a user device . In some embodiments a watermark template may acquire dynamic descriptive data elements with the assistance of a user device communicatively coupled to the watermark template such as via an agent application and or via an application programming interface communicatively coupled to an operating system of a user device .

Dynamic descriptive data elements may include and or describe for example a prior function performed on a user device and or prior action taken on a resource such as a prior creation prior access prior modification prior storage and prior transmission of a resource by a user device and or user of a user device . A transmission of a resource may for instance include transmitting the resource via a sharing feature an email an instant message a text and or multimedia message a social media application a FTP server and or other means of transmitting resources between user devices . In some embodiments a watermark template may describe such prior functions and or actions by including descriptive data elements detailing at least one user identifier source identifier timestamp location prior function and or action type contextual detail describing such prior action property associated with a user device associated with such prior action. Timestamps may for instance specify a date and or time associated with the timestamp such as a date and time when a resource was shared by a certain user device a date and time when the resource was received from the sharing user device by a recipient user device a date and time when a resource was annotated and or otherwise modified by a certain user device a date and time when a recipient user device will cease to be authorized to perform actions on the resource and or a date and time when the resource will expire and or become inaccessible by user devices . A timestamp may further for example specify the context of the timestamp so as to describe the context of such dates and or times. Contextual details describing such prior actions may include for example whether the associated user device complied with at least one compliance rule associated with such prior functions and or actions on a resource as described herein.

Watermark templates may further include descriptive data elements that are static and or do not change with respect to a resource user device user of a user device and or function of a user device . In some embodiments static descriptive data elements may be pre configured by an administrator of a watermark template server as described herein. Static descriptive data elements may for instance specify a sensitivity level associated with a certain function of a user device and or resource associated with the respective watermark template . Sensitivity levels associated with a function and or resource may specify that the function and or resource is at least one of the following confidential proprietary privileged and managed. For example a function of a user device that captures forensic evidence such as a camera function and a microphone function may be associated with a confidential sensitivity level and a privileged sensitivity level. As another example a resource that contains financial data may be associated with both a confidential sensitivity level and a proprietary sensitivity level.

A confidential sensitivity level may for example indicate that the respective function and or resource is the confidential property of an enterprise associated with the function and or resource . A proprietary sensitivity level may for instance indicate that the function and or resource constitutes the intellectual property of an enterprise associated with the function and or resource . A privileged sensitivity level may for instance indicate that the respective function and or resource is subject to and or protected by an attorney client relationship and or the work product doctrine. A managed sensitivity level may for example indicate that the respective function and or resource is managed and or controlled by a resource server as described herein. More particularly a managed sensitivity level may describe an enterprise and or business that owns and or controls the respective function and or resource which may also own and or control a resource server associated with and or communicatively coupled to the respective resource .

Static descriptive data elements may also for instance specify a security requirement associated with a certain function and or resource associated with the respective watermark template . Security requirements may specify for instance certain authorized and or unauthorized user identities device identities device hardware features device software features device applications function performance times and or durations and function performance locations. In other words security requirements may specify positive and negative criteria required for a certain user device to perform a certain action on a resource associated with such security requirements. For instance a function of a user device such as a camera function may only be authorized during workday hours according to an enterprise security policy which may be reflected by static descriptive data indicating that the camera function is prohibited outside workday hours. In some embodiments user identities and device identities may include user identifiers and device identifiers respectively. In certain embodiments security requirements are expressed and or enforced via compliance rules associated with one or more user devices subject to the security requirements as described herein.

In certain embodiments watermark templates may be configured such that when applied to a function of a user device the watermark templates are overlaid onto a graphical interface associated with the function of the user device . Additionally watermark templates may be configured such that when applied to a function of a user device the watermark templates are added to at least one position within a graphical interface associated with the function of the user device . In some embodiments watermark templates may be configured such that when applied to a resource accessible to a function of a user device the watermark templates are overlaid onto the resource . Moreover watermark templates may be configured such that when applied to a resource accessible to a function of a user device the watermark templates are added to at least one position within the resource .

In particular watermark templates and or data contained therein may be added to at least one of a header of the resource a body of the resource a footer of the resource a structural metadata of the resource a descriptive metadata of the resource and a wrapper encapsulating the resource . Structural metadata which may not be visible to a viewer of a resource may define the manner in which an applicable resource must be named according to a naming convention element and must be stored according to a storage structure convention element. Descriptive metadata which also may not be visible to a viewer of a resource may describe the resource according to the traits discussed herein. Wrappers encapsulating a resource may include a security layer surrounding the resource which may protect the underlying resource from certain actions being taken on the resource such as forwarding the resource to an unauthorized recipient.

As an example a watermark template may include a collection of descriptive data elements and may be configured to add each of the collection of descriptive data elements to specific positions within a function of the user device and or a resource accessible to a function of the user device when the watermark template is applied to the function and or resource . More specifically the watermark template may include a name of an enterprise associated with the function and or resource and may be configured to add the enterprise name to the upper left corner of the function and or resource when the watermark template is applied to the function and or resource . The watermark template may further include a current timestamp associated with a user device requesting to perform the function and or access the resource and may be configured to add the current timestamp to the lower left hand corner of the watermark template when the watermark template is applied to the function and or resource . The watermark template may yet further include a statement of confidentiality and may be configured to add the confidentiality statement to a certain function and or resource in translucent font diagonally across the length of the function and or resource when the watermark template is applied to the function and or resource .

Furthermore watermark templates may further include configuration data elements. In certain embodiments configuration data elements may configure watermark templates and or other elements associated with watermark templates such as functions of user devices and or resources accessible to functions of user devices .

In some embodiments configuration data may configure descriptive data elements included in watermark templates which may be associated with functions of user devices and or resources accessible to functions of user devices . Configuration data elements may for instance specify where to position descriptive data elements within the watermark templates . Configuration data elements may further specify a textual formatting schema to apply to descriptive data elements included in watermark templates . As an example configuration data elements of a watermark template may specify that the name of an enterprise included in the watermark template should be placed in the upper left hand corner and should be formatted in red colored bold style size 18 Times New Roman font. Consequently upon associating such a watermark template with a camera function of a user device resources created by such camera function may thereafter have the name of the enterprise overlaid onto such resources in the upper left hand corner of the resources in red colored bold style size 18 Times New Roman font.

In some embodiments configuration data may also configure functions of user devices and or resources accessible to functions of user devices . Configuration data may for example specify a naming convention to apply to functions and or resources . In particular configuration data of a watermark template may specify that a camera function of a user device that is associated with the watermark template must name any resources created by the camera function such as photograph resources and or video resources according to a naming convention that includes the name of an enterprise a timestamp and a location where the resources were created. As an example a timestamp and location may be determined at the time the camera function is performed by the user device by querying the device profile of the user device to determine the current data and time associated with the user device and the current location associated with the user device .

As an example configuration data elements of a watermark template may specify that a camera function of a user device that is associated with the watermark template must name any resources created by the camera function such as photograph resources and or video resources according to a naming convention that includes the name of an enterprise a timestamp and a location where the resources where created. In particular a timestamp and location may be determined at the time the camera function is performed by the user device by querying the device profile of the user device to determine a current date associated with the user device a current time associated with the user device and a current location associated with the user device .

Configuration data of watermark templates may also for instance include a storage structure convention element that should be applied to functions of user devices and or resources accessible to user devices that are associated with the respective watermark templates . In certain embodiments a storage structure convention element may specify at least one storage location where a user device should store certain functions of the user device and or certain resources accessible to certain functions of the user device . In particular storage locations of storage structure convention elements may include at least one of certain memories of a user device and or a remote server certain drives within certain memories and certain folders within certain memories where a user device should store functions of the user devices and or resources accessible to functions of the user devices that are associated with the respective watermark templates . In some embodiments storage structure convention elements may specify at least one file type in which a user device should store certain functions of the user device and or certain resources accessible to certain functions of the user device . As an example file types of storage structure convention elements may specify that resources captured by a microphone function of a user device that is associated with the respective watermark templates such as voice recording files must be stored in a digital rights management file format must be encrypted using AES 256 encryption and must be limited to a file size of under 1 MB to avoid excessive data network related charges.

In certain embodiments configuration data of watermark templates may add functionality to and or remove functionality from functions of the user device and or resources accessible to the functions of the user device . Configuration data of watermark templates may for instance add functionality buttons to a graphical interface of a function of the user device which may add additional functionality to the functions provided by the function of the user device . As an example a camera controls set of buttons may be added to a camera function of the user device by applying a watermark template to the camera function that includes configuration data for the camera controls set of buttons. As another example a media bar may be added to a resource created by a camera function of the user device that allows a user of the user device to quickly navigate to other resources created by the camera function of the user device . Configuration data may also for example remove functionality from a function of the user device by removing functionality buttons from a graphical interface of the function of the user device which may prevent performance of certain functions of the user device . Configuration data of watermark templates may further for instance be applied to functions and or resources that include effective date constrained certificates and or cryptographic keys to prevent user devices from accessing the functions and or resources beyond the effective date.

While watermark templates may comprise visible indicators such as descriptive data elements watermark templates need not comprise visible indicators. In certain embodiments a watermark template may be configured to match the formatting of the function of the user device and or resource to which the watermark template is applied where such formatting is non visible in nature. For example an audio watermark template may be applied to a microphone function of a user device where the audio watermark template comprises a configurable message concatenated onto the audio resource at the beginning of the existing audio within the existing audio and or at the end of the existing audio of the audio resource . Additionally an audio watermark template may be applied to an audio resource where the audio watermark template comprises an audio marker that may be heard concurrently with the existing audio of the audio resource . Such an audio watermark template may comprise a spoken audio and or a non spoken audio such as a public domain trademarked and or copyrighted musical selection associated with an enterprise associated with the watermark template .

In some embodiments a watermark template may include symbols letters and or numbers that may be visible to an individual but may not represent any recognizable message in combination with one another. For instance a watermark template may be configured to translate certain descriptive data from a format that may be recognizable to an individual into a format that may not be recognizable to the individual such as translating a user identifier from John Doe to 62s3 89f. As another example a watermark template may be configured to systematically place certain symbols letters and or numbers amongst a function of a user device and or resource accessible to a function of a user device when applied to the function and or resource such that the symbols letters and or numbers may only be deciphered with the assistance of a key specific to the systematic placement.

Furthermore in certain embodiments a watermark template may be visible in nature but may not be recognizable to an individual due to the scale of the watermark template in comparison to a function of the user device and or a resource accessible to a function of the user device to which the watermark template is applied. A watermark template and or data included therein may be for example either extremely small or extremely large in comparison to a function and or resource such that watermark template cannot be recognized when applied to the function and or resource . In particular descriptive data of a watermark template may be applied to a function and or resource in a very small font such that the font cannot be seen amongst the pixels of the function and or resource without magnifying the function and or resource .

In some embodiments a watermark template may be and or include a tangential addition to a function of a user device and or a resource such that the function and or resource remains visually identical to before the watermark template was applied to the function and or resource . For instance the watermark template may be and or include metadata an xml description a file header a file property a function performance summary a resource change summary and or the like that may be tangentially added to a function of a user device and or a resource without altering the visible aspects of the function and or resource . As an example an annotation watermark template may be added to an annotation function of a user device which may include a non visible change history that describes all annotations made with respect to resources annotated by the annotation function of the user device over the lifespan of the resources . For instance a resource annotated by an annotation feature of a user device may be modified to include an image based change summary that captures at least one of an initial state a previous state and or a current state of the resource which may be added to the resource as soon as the annotation of the resource is completed by the user device and or as a part of the annotation of the resource by the user device . An image based change history may be embodied for instance in a QR code and or MD5 hash to condense the change summary into a small image which might be even further reduced in size depending on a pixel resolution of the particular resource and a configurable required rendering quality for the change summary and or particular resource .

In certain embodiments user devices may apply watermark templates to certain functions of the user device and or certain resources accessible to certain functions of the user device . As a high level example and described herein an administrator may specify a watermark template to apply to a function of a user device such as a camera function. The watermark template may be applied to the camera function via a compliance rule which may specify that a user device may only be authorized to perform the camera function while the watermark template is applied to the camera function. The compliance rule may be triggered for instance when the user device identifies a request to perform the camera function such as when a user of the user device launches a camera application on the user device . In order to maintain a state of compliance with the compliance rule the user device may apply the watermark template to the camera function of the user device in a manner specified by the compliance rule . For instance the user device may overlay the watermark template onto a graphical interface associated with the camera function and add the watermark template to any photograph resources created by the camera function. In some embodiments the watermark template may identify the owner of the user device such that the photograph resources created by the camera function may be visually identified as owned by the owner of the user device via the watermark template .

As described herein a watermark template may be overlaid onto and or added to a function of the user device and or a resource accessible to a function of the user device such that the watermark template and the function and or resource are united when viewed by an individual. For example a resource may be modified such that a plurality of descriptive text of a watermark template may be visible on the resource . Furthermore the function and or resource may appear largely the same as before the watermark template is overlaid onto and or added to the function and or resource as the watermark template may include a translucent body and or background that may allow the underlying function and or resource to remain visible amongst the data included within the watermark template .

In certain embodiments a function and or resource may be marked and or badged with Watermarked and or the like to indicate that a watermark template is applied to the function and or resource . Similarly a function and or resource may be marked and or badged with indicia of an action that triggered a watermark template to be applied to such function and or resource via a compliance rule such as by placing a diagonal badge across the upper left corner of an icon of the function and or resource stating Shared to indicate that the function and or resource was watermarked in response the resource being shared with another user device . For instance an icon representing the function and or resource may be marked and or badged to indicate that the function and or resource was watermarked upon being shared.

In some embodiments the manner in which a user device associates a watermark template with a resource may be based at least in part on the type of resource that will be associated with the watermark template . For example an image resource may have a watermark template superimposed on the image resource such that the watermark template and the underlying image are concurrently visible as described herein. As another example an email resource may have a watermark template displayed as an overlay and or underlay to the email resource and or the watermark template may be included as a header and or signature to the email resource . As a further example a word processing spreadsheet and or presentation productivity resource may comprise a watermark template in at least one of the following displayer in a header and or footer section of the productivity resource incorporated as visible and or non visible metadata in the productivity resource and or displayed as an overlay underlay and or adjacent image to at least a portion of the content of the productivity resource . In some embodiments a watermark template may be repeated so as to be visible and or affixed in at least one of the above manners on each page slide worksheet etc. of the productivity resource .

In certain embodiments a watermark template may be permanently applied to a function of the user device and or a resource accessible to a function of the user device . For example a function and or resource may be permanently modified such that descriptive text of a watermark template cannot be removed from the function and or resource . Furthermore a series of watermark templates may be applied to a function and or resource over the lifespan of the function and or resource such that a watermark template is applied to a function and or resource with one or more previously applied watermark templates . For instance watermark templates may be applied to functions and or resources according to a plurality of compliance rules as described herein such that a watermark template is applied to the functions and or resources upon certain actions being taken with respect to the functions and or resources . More specifically a watermark template may be applied to a resource each time a user device seeks to share the resource where the applied watermark template may be dynamically populated based on a current context including a current location a current timestamp and a device identifier associated with the request to share the resource .

Some descriptive data elements included in a watermark template may be static such as the title of a resource and a current timestamp associated with an initial creation of the resource and may therefore remain the same each time the watermark template is applied to a function of the user device and or a resource accessible to a function of the user device . However some descriptive data elements included in a watermark template may be dynamic such as a property associated with a user device and may therefore be updated each time the watermark template is applied to a function and or a resource . For instance the watermark template may be updated upon each application with a function and or resource based at least in part on a device profile of the user device .

In some embodiments a function of the user device and or a resource accessible to a function of the user device may include many watermark templates that were previously applied to the function and or resource . The function and or resource may thereby include a comprehensive set of data that continues to increase over the lifespan of the function and or resource as each additional watermark template applied to the function and or resource may increase the comprehensive set of data applied to the function and or resource . In particular a function and or resource may be layered with many watermark templates and may thereby provide a history of the resource . For instance a resource may include descriptive data elements of a first watermark template after the first watermark template is applied to the resource the resource may include descriptive data elements of the first watermark template and descriptive data elements of a second watermark template after the second watermark template is applied to the resource and so on. Alternatively in some embodiments a function and or resource may only include a newly applied watermark template as previously applied watermark templates may be removed from the function and or resource upon applying a new watermark template .

Moreover user device may store one or more compliance rules . Compliance rules may be associated with at least one of certain user devices certain users of user devices and certain resources . For instance compliance rules may be associated with certain resources when certain users of certain user devices request and or initiate certain actions on such resources such as when a certain employee using a certain tablet seeks to email certain documents to certain recipients that are not affiliated with the respective enterprise. Compliance rules may be associated with such user devices users of user devices and or resources by an administrator of a compliance rule server as described herein.

Compliance rules may specify security requirements conditions and or events required for user device to perform certain functions on user device . In some embodiments compliance rules may specify certain methods and or steps of methods that must be performed before a user device is authorized to perform certain functions of the user device and or access certain resources . In particular compliance rules may specify that certain watermark templates must be applied to certain functions of a user device for the user device to gain authorization to perform the functions of the user device . Similarly compliance rules may specify that certain watermark templates must be applied to certain resources accessible to certain functions of a user device for the user device to gain authorization to access the resources and or perform the functions.

In some embodiments compliance rules may specify that user device must satisfy and or comply with a single condition for user device to be authorized to perform certain functions of user device and or access certain resources associated with the compliance rules . For instance compliance rules may require that user device is associated with a current time that is within an authorized time period specified by such compliance rules in order for user device to be authorized to perform certain functions and or access certain resources . More specifically compliance rules may specify that user device is authorized to share a business email resource such as by email while the system clock of user device is within a configured workday and user device is not authorized to access the business email resource while the system clock of user device is outside of the configured workday. In some embodiments compliance rules may specify that user device must satisfy and or comply with more than one condition for user device to be authorized to perform certain functions and or access certain resources . For example compliance rules may specify that user device must be associated with a safe zone location such as an enterprise office location to upload certain sensitive resources accessible to user device such as those affiliated with an enterprise which may require that both a GPS sensor of user device indicates that user device is currently located within the geographic boundaries of the safe zone and that a Wi Fi sensor of user device indicates that user device is communicatively coupled to a Wi Fi network access point associated with the safe zone.

In some embodiments compliance rules may specify that user device and another computing device such as another user device must both satisfy and or comply with one or more conditions for user device to be authorized to perform certain functions of user device and or access certain resources . Compliance rules may require that user device be located within proximity of and or be communicatively coupled to a secondary user device and that both user devices be located within an authorized location in order to perform certain functions and or access certain resources . As an example compliance rules may specify that user devices associated with nurses may only access resources associated with their patients such as a patient s medical records while the user devices associated with such nurses are located within 10 feet of user devices associated with such patients and while the user devices associated with nurses and user devices associated with patients are both located within examination rooms reserved for such patients appointments.

In certain embodiments compliance rules may be granular such that the user device may be authorized to perform certain functions and or access certain resources depending on how many of the conditions of the compliance rules are satisfied by user device . For example user device may be authorized to access an enterprise contact resource on user device if a GPS sensor on user device indicates that user device is located within the enterprise s location but user device may be prohibited from sending an email with an enterprise resource attached to the email until a certain watermark template is applied to the enterprise resource and until it is confirmed that the user device is located within a safe zone by being communicatively coupled to a Wi Fi network access point associated with the enterprise.

In some embodiments an agent application agent app on the user device may determine whether compliance rules are satisfied by the user device as described herein. For instance an agent application may determine whether user device complies with certain compliance rules by determining whether device profile provides indications that user device complies with such compliance rules . As an example an agent application may determine whether device profile specifies that the current time associated with user device is within a configured workday specified by compliance rules . Alternatively the user device may transmit all and or a portion of device profile to a compliance server which may determine whether user device satisfies the compliance rules .

In any case the user device may be authorized and or instructed to perform functions of user device and or access certain resources in response to a determination that the user device complies with the compliance rules . In certain embodiments an agent application may authorize requests by the user device to perform functions and or access resources by transmitting instructions to the operating system of user device and or communicating with such operating system via an API and or SDK. In some embodiments a compliance server may authorize requests by the user device to perform functions and or access resources by transmitting instructions to the operating system of user device and or communicating with such operating system via an API and or SDK.

Furthermore embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced in conjunction with a graphics library other operating systems or any other application program and is not limited to any particular application or system. The devices described with respect to the Figures may have additional features or functionality. For example user device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape not shown .

In certain embodiments the agent app web browser email client and secure app may be configured to create event logs that detail operations carried out by the agent app web browser email client and secure app . In particular event logs may capture each application s operations with respect to performance of functions of the user device access to resources application of watermark templates to functions and or resources over the lifespan of the functions and or resources and the user device s compliance with applicable compliance rules . The agent app web browser email client and secure app may be further configured to transmit event logs to at least one of the resource server watermark template server and compliance server which may be utilized by each server in its execution of management systems and or applications associated with the user device . More specifically the user device may transmit event logs to servers executing at least one of an enterprise mobility management service a mobile device management service a mobile content management service a mobile application management service and a mobile email management service.

In some embodiments the user device may be communicatively coupled to the resource server watermark template server and compliance server via the network . The network may include for instance a cellular network Wi Fi network Bluetooth network and or any other network capable of transmitting data between and or amongst user device resource server watermark template server and compliance server . While the resource server the watermark template server and the compliance server are represented as separate elements amongst operating environment it is understood that such servers could be combined into a single server capable of performing the same and or similar functionality that each of the resource server the watermark template server and the compliance server may be capable of performing separately such as executing a management system and or application.

In some embodiments the resource server may comprise a server that manages a plurality of resources such as resources associated with an enterprise. The resource server may include a resource store which may store such resources . The resource server may transmit resources to the user device and may receive transmissions of resources from the user device via the network . The resource server may be associated with the user device for instance by enrolling the user device into a management system and or application executed by resource server . More specifically resource server may distribute certain settings and or configuration profiles to the user device that enables resource server to instruct user device to perform certain functions such as instructing user device to download certain resources from resource store of resource server . The resource server may also track and or manage access to resources associated with the resource server such as by receiving event logs transmitted by user device and or recording accesses to the resources . The event logs may include and or describe usage of the resource by detailing for instance a device identifier associated with a user device a user identifier associated with a user of a user device a resource a watermark template associated with a resource an request to perform an action on a resource an action performed on a resource and or the like.

In some embodiments the watermark template server may comprise a server that manages a plurality of watermark templates . The watermark template server may include a watermark template store which may store such watermark templates . The watermark template server may transmit watermark templates to the user device via the network . The watermark template server may also receive transmissions of resources with watermark templates applied to the resources from the user device . The watermark template server may be associated with the user device for instance by enrolling the user device into a management system and or application executed by watermark template server . More specifically watermark template server may distribute certain settings and or configuration profiles to the user device that enables watermark template server to instruct user device to perform certain functions such as instructing user device to download certain watermark templates from watermark template store of watermark template server and or to apply certain watermark templates to certain functions of the user device and or resources accessible to functions of the user device . The watermark template server may also track and or manage the usage of watermark templates associated with the watermark template server such as by receiving event logs transmitted by user device and or recording accesses to the watermark templates . The event logs may include and or describe usage of the watermark templates by detailing for instance a device identifier associated with a user device a user identifier associated with a user of a user device a request to perform a function on the user device and or access a resource an function performed and or a resource accessed a watermark template applied to a function and or resource etc.

In some embodiments the compliance server may comprise a server that manages a plurality of compliance rules . The compliance server may include a compliance rule store which may store such compliance rules . The compliance server may transmit compliance rules to the user device and may receive transmissions of compliance audits and or device profiles that may be used to determine whether the user device complies with compliance rules from the user device via the network . The compliance server may be associated with the user device for instance by enrolling the user device into a management system and or application executed by compliance server . More specifically compliance server may distribute certain settings and or configuration profiles to the user device that enable the compliance server to instruct the user device to perform certain functions of the user device and or access certain resources . As an example compliance rules may be transmitted from a compliance server to a user device to instruct an agent application on the user device to determine whether the user device complies with certain compliance rules based on the device profile associated with the user device before authorizing the user device to perform certain functions of the user device and or access certain resources accessible to certain functions of the user device . The compliance server may also track and or manage the usage of compliance rules associated with the compliance server such as by receiving event logs transmitted by user device and or recording compliance determinations with respect to the compliance rules .

Method may begin at starting block and proceed to stage where a request to perform at least one function of a user device is identified. Requests to perform functions of the user device may include for instance requests to perform hardware functions software functions and or applications executed by the user device . In certain embodiments an agent application on a user device may monitor the operations of the user device to identify requests to perform functions of the user device . For instance an agent application may identify requests transmitted by hardware functions software functions and or applications executed by the user device to an operating system of the user device which may request the operating system to perform certain functions of the user device that are controlled by the operating system of the user device . Additionally an agent application may identify requests transmitted by hardware functions software functions and or applications executed by the user device to a service communicatively coupled to the user device such as a resource server a watermark template server or a compliance server . In some embodiments a service communicatively coupled to the user device may identify requests transmitted by the user device to such service to identify requests by the user device to perform functions of the user device .

From stage method may advance to stage where at least one watermark template is identified. In certain embodiments watermark templates may be identified that are associated with at least one of the identified functions of the user device resources accessible to identified functions of the user device the user device a user of the user device and an enterprise. In some embodiments an administrator of a watermark template server may associate a watermark template with certain functions of the user device resources accessible to identified functions of the user device user devices users of user devices and enterprises based on an affiliation between the watermark template and the functions of the user device resources accessible to identified functions of the user device user devices users of user devices and enterprises. As an example the data store of the user device may be searched and or queried to identify watermark templates . As another example a watermark template store within a resource server communicatively coupled with the user device may be searched and or queried to identify watermark templates .

From stage method may advance to stage where the identified watermark templates are applied to the identified functions of the user device . In certain embodiments watermark templates may be applied to the functions of the user device by overlaying the watermark templates onto at least one graphical interface associated with the functions of the user device . Also watermark templates may be applied to resources accessible to functions of the user device by overlaying the watermark templates onto the resources . In particular watermark templates may be applied to resources created by the identified functions of the user device modified by the identified functions of the user device stored by the identified functions of the user device and or transmitted by the identified functions of the user device . More particularly resources transmitted by the user device may include resources emailed instant messaged text messaged uploaded or transmitted via a file transfer within the user device to another user device and or to a service communicatively coupled to the user device .

In some embodiments watermark templates may be applied to the functions of the user device by adding the watermark templates to at least one graphical interface associated with the functions of the user device in at least one position within the graphical interface. Additionally watermark templates may be applied to resources accessible to functions of the user device by adding the watermark templates to the resources in at least one position within the resources . In certain embodiments watermark templates may be added resources accessible to functions of the user device in at least one of the a header of the resource a footer of the resource a structural metadata element of the resource a descriptive metadata element of the resource and a wrapper encapsulating the resource . In any case watermark templates may be positioned within the functions of the user device and or resources accessible to functions of the user device over the lifespan of the functions and or resources according to a pre defined placement algorithm and or sequence such that multiple watermark templates may be applied to a single function and or resource without overwriting previously applied watermark templates .

From stage method may advance to stage where the identified requests to perform functions of the user device are authorized. In certain embodiments the identified requests to perform the functions of the user device may only be authorized while the identified watermark templates are applied to the respective functions of the user device . In some embodiments the authorization of the identified requests to perform the functions of the user device may occur concurrently with the application of the identified watermark templates to the respective functions of the user device . Upon completing the authorization step of stage the method may end at stage .

In certain embodiments requests to perform functions of the user device may be authorized by instructing the user device that the request is authorized and or by instructing the user device to perform the requested at least one function. In some embodiments requests to perform functions of the user device may be authorized by permitting the user device to perform the at least one function without interference such as by taking no action. As an example an agent application may transmit commands to the operating system of the user device via an API that specify that the user device should authorize the request to perform the functions of the user device . Additionally a compliance server may transmit commands to the user device and or functions of the user device that specify that the user device should authorize the request to perform the functions of the user device .

In some embodiments requests to perform the functions of the user device may only be authorized while the user device complies with at least one compliance rule . As an example an agent application may determine whether the user device complies with the compliance rules which may be determined based on a device profile of the user device describing the state of the user device . Additionally a compliance server may receive a device profile or data contained therein and determine whether the user device complies with the compliance rules which may be stored within the compliance rule store . In any case requests to perform functions of the user device may be denied if it is determined that the user device does not comply with the compliance rules .

In certain embodiments requests to perform functions of the user device may be denied by instructing the user device that the request is not authorized and or by instructing the user device not to perform the requested function. In some embodiments requests to perform functions of the user device may be denied by preventing the user device from performing the requested function such as by transmitting commands to the user device that specify that the user device should delete data from storage locations associated with the function of the user device . As an example an agent application may transmit commands to the operating system of the user device via an API that specify that the user device should deny the request to perform the identified functions of the user device . Additionally a compliance server may transmit commands to the user device and or functions of the user device that specify that the user device should deny the request to perform the identified functions of the user device .

In some embodiments event logs may be created that specify at least one property describing the application of the identified watermark template to the function of the user device and or the authorization of the request to perform the function of the user device . Event logs may for example specify at least one of a user identifier a device identifier a determination of whether the user device complies with at least one compliance rule a source identifier a timestamp and a location describing the context of the watermark template application step and or the identified request authorization step. Event logs may for instance facilitate the management of the respective user device by providing data necessary for the operations of enterprise mobility management services and or the like. Accordingly in certain embodiments event logs may be transmitted to a service communicatively coupled to the user device such as a resource server watermark template server and or compliance server .

Method may begin at starting block and proceed to stage where a request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of at least one user device is identified. In certain embodiments a request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of at least one user device may include a request to establish an association between a watermark template and at least one resource accessible to the function of the at least one user device . In particular resources accessible to functions of user devices may include resources created by such functions resources modified by such functions resources stored by such functions and or resources transmitted by such functions.

In some embodiments the at least one user device may identify the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device . For instance at least one agent application executed by a user device may monitor the operations of the user device to identify requests to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of the user device . As another example the function of the user device from which a request is initiated may be configured to identify the request to establish an association between the watermark template and the function of the user device . In some embodiments a server communicatively coupled to a user device may identify a request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of the user device . For example an enterprise mobility management server such as a resource server a watermark template server and or a compliance server may instruct the operating system of a user device via an API that the operating system of the user device should monitor the operations of the user device to identify a request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of the user device .

From stage method may advance to stage where a determination of whether the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the user device is authorized to be made. In certain embodiments the determination of whether a request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of a user device may be made based at least in part on whether at least one compliance rule is satisfied. More specifically compliance rules may specify that only certain users that are operating certain user devices at certain locations during certain times may establish associations between watermark templates and functions of the user devices . For instance compliance rules may specify that only police officer users that are operating police department owned user devices that are being operated at locations of crime scenes during standard workday hours may establish associations between watermark templates and functions of the user devices . Additionally compliance rules may specify that only certain administrators that are utilizing certain servers communicatively coupled to the user devices may establish associations between watermark templates and functions of the user devices . For example compliance rules may specify that only enterprise employed IT administrators that are managing enterprise owned user devices via an enterprise mobility management server to which the enterprise owned user devices are enrolled and thereby communicatively coupled may establish associations between watermark templates and functions of the user devices .

In some embodiments the determination of whether a compliance rule is satisfied may be made based at least in part on whether a user of the respective user device satisfies the compliance rule . For instance a user may satisfy a certain compliance rule if the user has provided authorized user credentials is employed by a certain enterprise and or holds a sufficiently privileged employment position with a certain enterprise. In some embodiments the determination of whether a compliance rule is satisfied may be made based at least in part on whether the user device satisfies the compliance rule . For example a user device may satisfy a compliance rule if a device profile of the user device indicates that the state of the user device satisfies certain security requirements specified by the compliance rule such as whether data encryption is enabled on the user device .

Additionally in some embodiments the determination of whether a compliance rule is satisfied may be made based at least in part on whether an administrator of a respective user device satisfies the compliance rule . For instance an administrator may satisfy a compliance rule if the administrator has provided authorized administrator credentials is employed by a certain enterprise and or holds a sufficiently privileged employment position with a certain enterprise . In some embodiments the determination of whether a compliance rule is satisfied may be made based at least in part on whether a server communicatively coupled to the user device satisfies the compliance rule . For example a server communicatively coupled to the user device may satisfy a compliance rule if the server is located behind a firewall is providing an enterprise mobility management service and if the user device communicatively coupled to the server is enrolled in the executed enterprise mobility management service.

From stage method may advance to stage where a request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of a user device may be authorized. In certain embodiments requests to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of a user device may be authorized in response to a determination that the requests are authorized based at least in part on at least one compliance rule being satisfied.

In some embodiments requests to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of a user device may be authorized by instructing the user device that the request is authorized and or by instructing the user device to create an association record describing the association between the watermark template and the function of the user device . In some embodiments requests to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of a user device may be authorized by permitting the user device to establish such association without interference such as by taking no action. As an example an agent application may transmit commands to the operating system of the user device via an API that specify that the user device should authorize the request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of a user device . Additionally a compliance server may transmit commands to the user device and or to functions of the user device associated with the request that specify that the request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of a user device should be authorized.

In certain embodiments authorizing a request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of a user device may include establishing the association between the watermark template and the function of the user device . In some embodiments establishing the association between the watermark template and the function of the user device may include creating an association record describing the association between the watermark template and the function of the user device and storing the association record in a memory. For instance an association record may be stored in a memory of the user device and or may be stored in a watermark template store of a watermark template server communicatively coupled to the user device via a network .

In certain embodiments authorizing a request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of a user device may include identifying at least one watermark template element compiling the watermark template from the identified watermark template elements and establishing the association between the watermark template and the function of the user device . In some embodiments watermark template elements may be identified by requesting input of the watermark template elements. For example the method may request input of watermark template elements such as descriptive data elements naming convention elements and or storage structure convention elements from a user of a user device and or an administrator of the user device . In some embodiments watermark template elements may be identified by querying at least one memory accessible to the user device to determine whether the memories hold watermark template elements in storage. For instance watermark template elements stored on a memory of a user device and or a memory of a server communicatively coupled to the user device such as a watermark template server may be identified. In any case upon completing the authorization step of stage the method may end at stage .

The method may further include steps to apply a watermark template established as associated with a function of a user device to the function of the user device . In certain embodiments a watermark template may be applied to a function of a user device and or resources accessible to a function of a user device as described with respect to . For instance the method may identify a request to perform a function of at least one user device may identify an appropriate watermark template may apply the appropriate watermark template to the function of the user device and may authorize the request to perform the function of the user device where the appropriate watermark template is identified via an association established between the watermark template and the function of the user device as described herein.

The method may yet further include denying the request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of the user device in response to a determination that at least one compliance rule is not satisfied. In certain embodiments the method may include denying the request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of the user device in response to a determination that a configured threshold of compliance rules is not satisfied. For instance the method may deny a request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of a user device if a user of the user device does not satisfy all compliance rules specific to such user and if the user device itself does not satisfy 75 of all compliance rules specific to the user device .

The method may yet further include steps to facilitate the management of a user device including functions of the user device resources accessible to functions of the user device and watermark templates accessible to the user device . In certain embodiments the method may include a step that creates an event log that describes the steps taken by the method. In particular event logs may be created that detail an identification of a request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of a user device a determination of whether the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the user device is authorized and or an authorization of the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the user device . Additionally an event log may be created that describes an identification of a request to perform a function of a user device an application of the appropriate watermark template to the function of the user device and or an authorization of the request to perform the function of the user device . In some embodiments the method may include a step that transmits the event log to a memory for storage such as a memory of a user device and or a memory of a server communicatively coupled to a user device .

An embodiment consistent with the disclosure may comprise a method for providing functionality watermarking and management. The method may comprise identifying a request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of at least one user device determining whether the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device is authorized and authorizing the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device in response to a determination that the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device is authorized.

Another embodiment consistent with the disclosure may comprise an apparatus for providing functionality watermarking and management. The apparatus may comprise at least one processor and at least one memory having program code instructions embodied therein the at least one memory and program code instructions being configured to with the at least one processor direct the apparatus to at least identifying a request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of at least one user device determining whether the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device is authorized and authorizing the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device in response to a determination that the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device is authorized.

Yet another embodiment consistent with the disclosure may comprise a computer program product for providing functionality watermarking and management. The computer program product comprising a non transitory computer readable storage medium having program code portions embodied therein the program code portions being configured to upon execution direct an apparatus to at least identifying a request to establish an association between a watermark template and a function of at least one user device determining whether the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device is authorized and authorizing the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device in response to a determination that the request to establish the association between the watermark template and the function of the at least one user device is authorized.

The embodiments and functionalities described herein may operate via a multitude of computing systems including wired and wireless computing systems mobile computing systems e.g. mobile telephones tablet or slate type computers laptop computers etc. . In addition the embodiments and functionalities described herein may operate over distributed systems where application functionality memory data storage and retrieval and various processing functions may be operated remotely from each other over a distributed computing network such as the Internet or an intranet. User interfaces and information of various types may be displayed via on board computing device displays or via remote display units associated with one or more computing devices. For example user interfaces and information of various types may be displayed and interacted with on a wall surface onto which user interfaces and information of various types are projected. Interaction with the multitude of computing systems with which embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced include keystroke entry touch screen entry voice or other audio entry gesture entry where an associated computing device is equipped with detection e.g. camera functionality for capturing and interpreting user gestures for controlling the functionality of the computing device and the like. The Figures above and their associated descriptions provide a discussion of a variety of operating environments in which embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced. However the devices and systems illustrated and discussed with respect to the Figures are for purposes of example and illustration and are not limiting of a vast number of computing device configurations that may be utilized for practicing embodiments of this disclosure as described herein.

The term computer readable media as used herein may include computer storage media. Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all computer storage media examples i.e. memory storage. Computer storage media may include but is not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store.

The term computer readable media as used herein may also include communication media. Communication media may be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules non transitory media and or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may describe a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

A number of applications and data files may be used to perform processes and or methods as described above. The aforementioned processes are examples and a processing unit may perform other processes. Other programming modules that may be used in accordance with embodiments of this disclosure may include electronic mail calendar and contacts applications data processing applications word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications slide presentation applications drawing or computer aided application programs etc.

Generally consistent with embodiments of this disclosure program modules may include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that may perform particular tasks or that may implement particular abstract data types. Moreover embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments of this disclosure may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Furthermore embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced in an electrical circuit comprising discrete electronic elements packaged or integrated electronic chips containing logic gates a circuit utilizing a microprocessor or on a single chip containing electronic elements or microprocessors. Embodiments of this disclosure may also be practiced using other technologies capable of performing logical operations such as for example AND OR and NOT including but not limited to mechanical optical fluidic and quantum technologies. In addition embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced within a general purpose computer or in any other circuits or systems.

Embodiments of this disclosure may for example be implemented as a computer process and or method a computing system an apparatus device or appliance and or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product or computer readable media. The computer program product may be a computer storage media readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. The computer program product may also be a propagated signal on a carrier readable by a computing system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. Accordingly the present disclosure may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. . In other words embodiments of the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. A computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific computer readable medium examples a non exhaustive list the computer readable medium may include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber and a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM . Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Embodiments of this disclosure may be practiced via a system on a chip SOC where each and or many of the elements described above may be integrated onto a single integrated circuit. Such an SOC device may include one or more processing units graphics units communications units system virtualization units and various application functionalities all of which may be integrated or burned onto the chip substrate as a single integrated circuit. When operating via an SOC the functionality described herein with respect to training and or interacting with any element may operate via application specific logic integrated with other components of the computing device system on the single integrated circuit chip .

Embodiments of this disclosure are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments of the present disclosure have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data can also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM a carrier wave from the Internet or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed methods stages may be modified in any manner including by reordering stages and or inserting or deleting stages without departing from the disclosure.

Embodiments of the present disclosure for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments of the disclosure have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments of the present disclosure have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data can also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM a carrier wave from the Internet or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed methods stages may be modified in any manner including by reordering stages and or inserting or deleting stages without departing from the disclosure.

All rights including copyrights in the code included herein are vested in and the property of the Assignee. The Assignee retains and reserves all rights in the code included herein and grants permission to reproduce the material only in connection with reproduction of the granted patent and for no other purpose.

While the specification includes examples the disclosure s scope is indicated by the following claims. Furthermore while the specification has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts the claims are not limited to the features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example for embodiments of the disclosure.

