---

title: Bearer split ratios for dual connectivity systems
abstract: Technology for communicating data to a user equipment (UE) is disclosed. Effective data rates may be identified, at a master evolved node B (MeNB), for the UE with respect to the MeNB and a secondary evolved node B (SeNB). A downlink split ratio for bearers of the MeNB and the SeNB to the UE may be determined based in part on the effective data rates for the UE. A first portion of data may be sent from the MeNB to the UE according to the downlink split ratio. A remaining portion of data may be sent from the MeNB to the UE via the SeNB according to the downlink split ratio, wherein the UE supports dual connectivity with the MeNB and the SeNB.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09572185&OS=09572185&RS=09572185
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09572185
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140925
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 883 127 filed Sep. 26 2013 the entire specification of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicates with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets can be used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes small eNBs micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes small nodes or small cells.

In LTE data can be transmitted from the eNodeB to the UE via a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH . A physical uplink control channel PUCCH can be used to acknowledge that data was received. Downlink and uplink channels or transmissions can use time division duplexing TDD or frequency division duplexing FDD .

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In 3GPP LTE Release 12.0 user equipments UEs may connect to more than one cell site simultaneously in a dual connectivity system. For example the UE may connect to a master evolved node B MeNB and at least one secondary evolved node B SeNB simultaneously. When the UE connects to two cells the UE may receive data bearers from both cells at substantially the same time. Dual connectivity may improve cell edge throughput average sector throughput and load balance between cells. The multiple bearers may be sent to the UE based on a location of an S1 U termination and location of the bearer split. In one example the S1 U may be terminated at the MeNB and the bearer split may be performed at a packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer in the MeNB.

The dual connectivity architectures described in are further discussed in 3GPP Technical Review TR 36.842 Version 12.0.0.

In one example MAC schedulers in the MeNB and the SeNB may be responsible for scheduling the downlink DL and uplink UL traffic for the UEs. The MAC schedulers may calculate priority and effective data rates for each UE depending on link conditions buffer status information and or a type of traffic. In other words the MACs schedulers may be responsible for splitting IP traffic received at the PDCP layer in the MeNB. In the downlink the IP traffic may be split between paths to the UE via the MeNB and or the SeNB. The IP traffic may be split based on the effective data rates for the UE. As a non limiting example in the downlink the UE may receive 40 of the IP traffic directly from the MeNB and 60 of the IP traffic from the MeNB via the SeNB. In one example the MAC schedulers in the MeNB and the SeNB may coordinate to improve network capacity and latency. In addition the UE may receive signaling from the MeNB that indicates uplink splitting information i.e. an uplink split ratio . In other words the uplink split ratio may define a percentage of traffic to be transmitted to the MeNB from the UE and a percentage of traffic to be transmitted to the SeNB from the UE.

In the uplink the PDCP layer in the MeNB may receive PDCP PDUs from the UE either directly from the UE or via the SeNB . The PDCP headers in the PDCP PDUs may be treated and a COUNT may be determined. A PDCP PDU counter known as COUNT may be used as input to the security algorithms. The COUNT value is incremented for each PDCP PDU during a radio resource control RRC connection. The COUNT has a length of 32 bits in order to allow an acceptable duration for the RRC connection. During the RRC connection the COUNT value is maintained at the MeNB by counting each received PDCP PDU. Deciphering may be applied to the PDCP PDUs. The PDCP layer may perform header decompression and store the PDCP PDUs in a reordering buffer. In addition the PDCP PDUs may be converted to PDCP SDUs. The PDCP SDUs may be communicated in the uplink from the PDCP layer in the MeNB to higher layers in the MeNB e.g. IP layer or application layer . In other words the PDCP SDUs may be arranged in a correct order before the PDCP PDUs are sent to the IP layer.

In the uplink the PDCP layer in the MeNB may receive the M PDCP PDUs from lower layers in the MeNB. In addition the PDCP layer may receive the S PDCP PDUs from lower layers in the MeNB. The PDCP layer in the MeNB may treat the PDCP headers of the M PDCP PDUs. In addition the PDCP layer in the MeNB may treat the PDCP headers of the S PDCP PDUs. The PDCP layer may combine the bearers and determine a COUNT. In other words the M PDCP PDUs and the S PDCP PDUs may be combined into PDCP PDUs. The PDCP PDUs may be converted to PDCP SDUs. Deciphering may be applied to the PDCP SDUs. The PDCP layer may perform ROHC decompression and store the PDCP SDUs in a reordering buffer wherein the reordering buffer assembles the PDCP SDUs in a correct order. The PDCP SDUs may be communicated in the uplink from the PDCP layer in the MeNB to higher layers in the MeNB such as the IP layer or application layer.

In the uplink the PDCP layer in the UE may receive the M PDCP PDUs from lower layers in the UE. In addition the PDCP layer in the UE may receive the S PDCP PDUs from lower layers in the UE. The PDCP layer in the UE may combine the bearers and determine a COUNT. In other words the M PDCP PDUs and the S PDCP PDUs may be combined into PDCP PDUs. The PDCP PDUs may be converted into PDCP SDUs. Deciphering may be applied to the PDCP SDUs. The PDCP layer may perform ROHC decompression and store the PDCP SDUs in a reordering buffer wherein the reordering buffer assembles the PDCP SDUs in a correct order. In the uplink the PDCP SDUs may be communicated from the PDCP layer in the UE to higher layers in the UE.

As an example the information exchanged between the MeNB and the SeNB may describe an offered throughput to a user equipment UE wherein the UE is capable of dual connectivity i.e. the UE may receive data from both the MeNB and the SeNB . The throughput may include a data rate for communicating data between the MeNB and the UE or a data rate for communicating data between the SeNB and the UE . The data may be communicated between the MeNB and the UE over a MeNB radio link and the data may be communicated between the SeNB and the UE over a SeNB radio link. In one example the throughput may be determined using channel quality indicator CQI values for the UE . The CQI values for the UE may indicate a suitable data rate e.g. a modulation and coding scheme value for downlink transmissions at the UE . The CQI values for the UE may be based on signal to interference plus noise ratio SINR measurements at the UE . In one example the UE may report the CQI values to the MeNB and the MeNB may provide the CQI values to the SeNB . Alternatively the UE may report the CQI values to the SeNB and the SeNB may provide the CQI values to the MeNB .

The information exchanged between the MeNB and the SeNB may include a UE buffer status e.g. whether a retransmission buffer in the UE is not full or is about to overflow . The information exchanged between the MeNB and the SeNB may include a traffic type. The traffic type may be related to data that is to be communicated to the UE . For example the UE may receive delay tolerant traffic i.e. no time constraints from the MeNB and or the SeNB . Alternatively the UE may receive delay sensitive traffic such as voice over internet protocol VoIP or video streaming from the MeNB and or the SeNB . In addition the information exchanged between the MeNB and the SeNB may include capacity and delay constraints of the X2 interface between the MeNB and the SeNB end to end latency between the MeNB and the UE acknowledgement ACK negative acknowledgement NACK latency scheduled internet protocol IP traffic or a packet data convergence protocol PDCP buffer status at the UE .

The MeNB may use the information exchanged with the SeNB when determining the effective data rates for the UE . In other words the MeNB may determine an effective data rate for the MeNB radio link i.e. the communication link between the MeNB and the UE and an effective data rate for the SeNB radio link i.e. the communication link between the SeNB and the UE . The effective data rate may define an average transfer rate of data over a period of time for the radio link i.e. the MeNB radio link or the SeNB radio link .

In another example the MeNB may determine the effective data rates for the UE using a Shannon capacity formula i.e. log 1 SINR . The MeNB may obtain two CQI values. The CQI values may be received from the SeNB and or the UE . The first CQI value may describe a channel quality of the MeNB radio link. The second CQI value may describe a channel quality of the SeNB radio link. The CQI values may be based on SINR measurements. Using the Shannon capacity formula and the SINR measurements from the CQI values the MeNB may determine a channel capacity for the MeNB radio link and a channel capacity for the SeNB radio link. The MeNB may determine the effective data rates for the UE based on the channel capacities of the MeNB radio link and the SeNB radio link respectively.

As described in further detail below the MeNB may use the effective data rates for the UE when determining the downlink split ratio. The downlink split ratio may define a percentage of data to be communicated to the UE directly from the MeNB and a percentage of data to be communicated to the UE from the MeNB via the SeNB . In one example the PDCP layer of the MeNB may determine the downlink split ratio for communicating data to the UE . The MeNB may send a first portion of data to the UE over the MeNB radio link. The MeNB may send a remaining portion of data to the SeNB over the X2 interface and the SeNB may forward the remaining portion of data to the UE over the SeNB radio link. Thus the UE may support dual connectivity because the UE may receive data from both the MeNB and the SeNB .

As a non limiting example the PDCP layer in the MeNB may receive IP traffic from higher layers e.g. IP layer or application layer . Based on information exchanged with the SeNB the MeNB may determine the downlink split ratio for sending the data i.e. the IP traffic received from the higher layers to the UE . The MeNB may send 25 of the data directly to the UE over the MeNB radio link and 75 of the data to the UE via the SeNB . In other words the MeNB may send 75 of the data to the SeNB over the X2 interface and the SeNB may forward the data to the UE over the SeNB radio link.

In one example the MAC schedulers in the MeNB and the SeNB may use the offered throughput to the UE from the MeNB and the SeNB when calculating a proportional fair PF metric to consider overall fairness issues. The MAC schedulers may decide a priority level and the effective data rates for the UE for each scheduling instance. As another example the MAC schedulers in the MeNB and the SeNB may share a percentage of resource blocks RBs used during each scheduling instance in order to achieve load balancing between the MeNB and the SeNB . The load balancing between the MeNB and the SeNB may facilitate the communication of downlink or uplink traffic for the UE.

The MeNB may determine the downlink split ratio or the uplink split ratio using effective data rates for a MeNB radio link and a SeNB radio link. The MeNB radio link may be a communication link between the MeNB and the UE . The SeNB radio link may be a communication link between the SeNB and the UE . The effective data rates may be calculated using channel quality indicator CQI values as described above. The effective data rate for the MeNB radio link may be represented as Rm and the effective data rate for the SeNB radio link may be represented as Rs. The MeNB may communicate with the SeNB over an X2 interface. A data capacity or data rate for the X2 interface may be represented as Rx. In addition a date rate for IP traffic being provided to the PDCP layer in the MeNB may be represented as Ri.

With regard to determining the downlink split ratio if the effective data rate for the MeNB radio link Rm plus a minimum of the effective data rate for the SeNB radio link Rs and the data capacity for the X2 interface Rx is less than the date rate for IP traffic being provided to the PDCP layer in the MeNB Ri then the MeNB may provide the data to the UE according to the effective data rate for the MeNB radio link Rm . In other words if Rm min Rs Rx Rs then the rate Rs may be offered according to the downlink split ratio. If the data capacity for the X2 interface Rx is less than the effective data rate for the SeNB radio link Rs then the SeNB may provide the data to the UE according to data capacity for the X2 interface Rx . In other words if Rs Rx then the rate Rx may be offered according to the downlink split ratio.

With regard to determining the downlink split ratio if the effective data rate for the MeNB radio link Rm plus a minimum of the effective data rate for the SeNB radio link Rs and the data capacity for the X2 interface Rx is greater than the date rate for IP traffic being provided to the PDCP layer in the MeNB Ri then the UE may receive the data from the MeNB and the SeNB using data rates that are proportional to the effective data rate for the MeNB radio link Rm and a minimum of the effective data rate for the SeNB radio link Rs and the data capacity for the X2 interface Rx from the date rate for IP traffic being provided to the PDCP layer in the MeNB Ri . In other words if Rm min Rs Rx Ri then the data rates for the UE are offered in the downlink split ratio proportional to the Rm and the minimum of Rs Rx from the rate Ri. In one example if an end to end latency requirement is not satisfied for a particular UE then a medium access channel MAC scheduler in the MeNB may be notified to increase a priority level for that particular UE.

In one example the effective data rate Rm for the MeNB link may be calculated or obtained from a MAC layer of the MeNB . The effective data rate Rs for the SeNB link may be calculated or obtained from a MAC layer in the SeNB . The Rx data rate i.e. the capacity of the X2 link may be obtained. The data rate Ri may be obtained from a TCP IP layer. The minimum min value of Rx Rs may be calculated. The data transmitted to the UE over the MeNB link can be according to Ri Rm Min Rx Rs Rm . In addition the data transmitted to the UE over the SeNB link can be according to Ri Min Rx Rs Min Rx Rs Rm .

As a non limiting example Ri is 800 bits second Rm is 600 bits second Rx is 300 bits second and Rs is 400 bits second. Since Rm min Rx Rs Ri i.e. 600 bits s 300 bits s 800 bits s then the UE may receive the data according to data rates that are proportional to Rm i.e. 600 bits s and a minimum of Rx and Rs i.e. 300 bits s from Ri i.e. 800 bits s . As another non limiting example Ri is 1000 bits second Rm is 500 bits second Rx is 200 bits second and Rs is 100 bits second. Since Rm min Rx Rs 

With regard to determining the uplink split ratio the UE may send a bandwidth request to the MeNB and the SeNB . In addition the UE may send a traffic type and a UE buffer status to the MeNB . The UE buffer status may describe whether a PDCP layer in the UE is overflowing with IP traffic or about to overflow with IP traffic. Medium access channel MAC schedulers in the MeNB and the SeNB may exchange a throughput offered to the UE i.e. a throughput for both uplink and downlink the UE buffer status and a traffic type. The MeNB and the SeNB may exchange the information over an X2 interface. The MAC schedulers in the MeNB and the SeNB may calculate uplink grants for the UE . A PDCP layer in the MeNB receives the uplink grant information and possible uplink rates for the UE . The PDCP layer in the MeNB may calculate the uplink split ratio. As described earlier if Rm min Rs Rx Rs then the rate Rs may be offered according to the uplink split ratio or if Rs Rx then the rate Rx may be offered according to the uplink split ratio. In addition if Rm min Rs Rx Ri then the data rates for the UE are offered proportional to the Rm and the minimum of Rs Rx from the rate Ri. The PDCP layer in the MeNB may send the uplink split ratio to a MAC scheduler in the UE . The PDCP layer in the UE may use the uplink split ratio to split the data traffic for the two streams of data i.e. a first stream of data may be communicated to the MeNB and a second stream of data may be communicated to the SeNB .

In one example the downlink and uplink split ratios may be calculated periodically e.g. in the order of every few seconds to every few minutes depending on network congestion radio coverage link condition user mobility and or loading of cells.

Another example provides functionality of circuitry of a master evolved node B MeNB operable to communicate data to a user equipment UE as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The circuitry can be configured to identify effective data rates for the UE the effective data rates including an effective data rate for an MeNB link between the UE and the MeNB and an effective data rate for a secondary evolved node B SeNB link between the UE and the SeNB as in block . The circuitry can be configured to determine a downlink split ratio for bearers of the MeNB and the SeNB to the UE based in part on the effective data rates for the UE as in block . The circuitry can be configured to send a first portion of data from the MeNB to the UE according to the downlink split ratio as in block . In addition the circuitry can be configured to send a remaining portion of data from the MeNB to the UE via the SeNB according to the downlink split ratio wherein the UE supports dual connectivity with the MeNB and the SeNB as in block .

In one configuration the circuitry can be further configured to identify the effective data rates for the UE based on channel quality indicator CQI values received from at least one of the UE or the SeNB the CQI values including a first CQI value indicating a channel quality for the MeNB link and a second CQI value indicating a channel quality for the SeNB link. In another configuration the circuitry can be further configured to identify the effective data rates for the UE by exchanging information with the SeNB the information including at least one of the effective data rate for the SeNB link a packet size or transport block size on the SeNB link a type of traffic a capacity of an interface between the MeNB and the SeNB delay constraints for the interface between the MeNB and the SeNB end to end latency between the MeNB and the UE acknowledgement ACK negative acknowledgement NACK latency scheduled internet protocol IP traffic or a packet data convergence protocol PDCP buffer status at the UE.

In one example the circuitry can be further configured to exchange the information with the SeNB via an X2 interface. In another example the circuitry can be further configured to calculate a proportional fair PF metric using a total offered throughput from the MeNB and the SeNB to the UE. In yet another example the circuitry can be further configured to send a first percentage of packet data unit PDU packets from the MeNB directly to the UE according to the downlink split ratio and send a second percentage of PDU packets from the MeNB to the UE via the SeNB according to the downlink split ratio.

In one configuration the circuitry can be further configured to semi statically or dynamically share resource blocks RBs between the MeNB and the SeNB for downlink DL or uplink UL traffic for the UE in order to achieve load balancing between the MeNB and the SeNB. In another configuration the circuitry can be further configured to determine the downlink split ratio at a packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer in the MeNB. In yet another configuration the circuitry can be further configured to determine that the effective data rate for the MeNB link Rm plus one of the effective data rate for the SeNB link Rs or a data capacity of an X2 link between the MeNB and the SeNB Rx is less than an internet protocol IP data rate to the packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer in the MeNB Ri and determine the downlink split ratio to include the effective data rate for the MeNB link Rm wherein data is transmitted from the MeNB to the UE over the MeNB link according to the downlink split ratio.

In one example the circuitry can be further configured to determine the downlink split ratio to include the total effective rate for the SeNB link Rs when the data capacity of the X2 link between the MeNB and the SeNB Rx is greater than the effective data rate for the SeNB link Rs or determine the downlink split ratio to include the data capacity of the X2 link Rx when Rx is less than the effective data rate for the SeNB link Rs and transmit the data to the UE over the SeNB link according to the downlink split ratio. In another example the circuitry can be further configured to determine that the effective data rate for the MeNB link Rm plus one of the effective data rate for the SeNB link Rs or a data capacity of an X2 link between the MeNB and the SeNB Rx is greater than an internet protocol IP data rate to the packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer in the MeNB Ri and determine the downlink split ratio to include a data rate proportional to the effective data rate for the MeNB link Rm and one of the effective data rate for the SeNB link Rs or a data capacity of an X2 link between the MeNB and the SeNB Rx from the IP data rate to the PDCP layer in the MeNB Ri .

In one configuration the circuitry can be further configured to calculate the effective data rate for the MeNB link Rm calculate the effective data rate for the SeNB link Rs determine a data capacity of an X2 link between the MeNB and the SeNB Rx determine an internet protocol IP data rate to the packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer in the MeNB Ri calculate a minimum min value of Rx Rs and transmit data over the MeNB link according to Ri Rm Min Rx Rs Rm or transmit the data over the SeNB link according to Ri Min Rx Rs Min Rx Rs Rm . In another configuration the circuitry can be further configured to receive a notification at the MeNB when an end to end latency threshold is not met for the UE and increase a priority level for sending the data to the UE when the end to end latency threshold is not met for the UE.

In one example the circuitry can be further configured to determine the downlink split ratio when the end to end latency threshold is not met for the UE in order to readjust the end to end latency. In another example the circuitry can be further configured to periodically determine the downlink split ratio depending on network congestion radio coverage link condition user mobility or loading of cells.

Another example provides functionality of circuitry of a user equipment UE configured to support dual connectivity as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The circuitry can be configured to send information to at least one of a master evolved node B MeNB or a secondary evolved node B SeNB wherein the MeNB determines an uplink UL split ratio for the UE based in part on the information received from the UE as in block . The circuitry can be configured to receive the uplink split ratio from a packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer the MeNB as in block . In addition the circuitry can be configured to communicate data in the uplink from a PDCP layer in the UE to at least one of the MeNB or the SeNB according to the uplink split ratio wherein the UE is configured to support dual connectivity with the MeNB and the SeNB as in block .

In one example the circuitry can be further configured to send the information to the MeNB or the SeNB that includes at least one of a bandwidth request traffic type information or packet data convergence protocol PDCP buffer status information for the UE. In another example the circuitry can be further configured to send a first portion of data from the UE to the MeNB according to the uplink split ratio and send a remaining portion of data from the UE to the SeNB according to the uplink split ratio. In yet another example the UE includes an antenna a touch sensitive display screen a speaker a microphone a graphics processor an application processor an internal memory or a non volatile memory port.

Another example provides a method for communicating data to a user equipment UE as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method can include the operation of identifying at a master evolved node B MeNB effective data rates for the UE with respect to the MeNB and a secondary evolved node B SeNB as in block . The method can include the operation of determining a downlink split ratio for bearers of the MeNB and the SeNB to the UE based in part on the effective data rates for the UE as in block . The method can include the operation of sending a first portion of data from the MeNB to the UE according to the downlink split ratio as in block . In addition the method can include the operation of sending a remaining portion of data from the MeNB to the UE via the SeNB according to the downlink split ratio wherein the UE supports dual connectivity with the MeNB and the SeNB as in block .

In one example the effective data rates include an effective data rate for an MeNB link between the UE and the MeNB and an effective data rate for an SeNB link between the UE and the SeNB. In another example the method can include the operation of identifying the effective data rates for the UE based on channel quality indicator CQI values received from at least one of the UE or the SeNB the CQI values including a first CQI value indicating a channel quality for the MeNB link and a second CQI value indicating a channel quality for the SeNB link.

In one configuration the method can include the operation of identifying the effective data rates for the UE by exchanging information with the SeNB the information including at least one of the effective data rate for the SeNB link a type of traffic a capacity of an interface between the MeNB and the SeNB delay constraints for the interface between the MeNB and the SeNB end to end latency between the MeNB and the UE acknowledgement ACK negative acknowledgement NACK latency scheduled internet protocol IP traffic or a packet data convergence protocol PDCP buffer status at the UE. In addition the method can include the operation of exchanging the information with the SeNB via an X2 interface.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

