---

title: Method for processing data and electronic device thereof
abstract: A method for operating an electronic device including a first sensor is provided, the method including: obtaining a first reading from the first sensor; detecting a state of the electronic device; and adjusting the first reading based on the state the electronic device to generate an adjusted reading; and performing, by the electronic device, an action based on the adjusted reading; wherein the first sensor includes at least one of a temperature sensor and a humidity sensor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09482606&OS=09482606&RS=09482606
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09482606
owner_city: Suwon-si, Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20141031
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Nov. 1 2013 and assigned Serial No. 10 2013 0132503 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to electronic devices and more particularly to a method and apparatus for processing data.

As a mobile communication technology develops an electronic device is used as an essential communication device of an individual. Furthermore as an electronic device provides not only a voice communication function but also various additional services such as a camera data communication moving picture reproduction audio reproduction and a messenger schedule management an alarm function etc. various programs that may use these functions and a user may perform an input to the electronic device via various input methods or using various objects.

An electronic device may calculate actual temperature based on temperature humidity information before correction measured by a temperature humidity sensor. That is a smartphone may represent temperature of a temperature humidity sensor mounted thereon as if it were actual temperature. However since temperature humidity information before correction is much influenced by other parts inside the smartphone a difference between measured temperature and actual temperature may occur. Therefore a smartphone may apply a temperature compensation engine to measured values of a thermistor inside a Printed Circuit Board PCB and show temperature humidity results that approach actual temperature humidity.

According to one aspect of the disclosure a method for operating an electronic device is provided including a first sensor the method comprising obtaining a first reading from the first sensor detecting a state of the electronic device adjusting the first reading based on the state the electronic device to generate an adjusted reading and performing by the electronic device an action based on the adjusted reading wherein the first sensor includes at least one of a temperature sensor and a humidity sensor.

According to another aspect of the disclosure an electronic device is provided comprising a first sensor and a processing circuitry configured to obtain a first reading from the first sensor detect a state of the electronic device and adjust the first reading based on the state the electronic device to generate an adjusted reading and perform by the electronic device an action based on the adjusted reading wherein the first sensor includes at least one of a temperature sensor and a humidity sensor.

Throughout the drawings like reference numerals will be understood to refer to like parts components and structures.

An electronic device may set various circumstances depending on a state where the electronic device is positioned in order to correct or reset an error of one or more sensors connected to the electronic device caused by interferences of one or more parts included inside or outside the electronic device. The electronic device may include one or more correction engines that may correct a value obtained by a sensor of the electronic device based on one or more variables measured for a designated circumstance.

An electronic device according to the present disclosure may y include a smartphone a tablet personal computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MP3 player a mobile medical device a camera and a wearable device e.g. at least one of a head mounted device HMD such as an electronic glasses electronic clothes an electronic bracket an electronic necklace an electronic appcessory or a smartwatch . Additionally or alternatively the electronic device may be a smart home appliance having a communication function. The smart home appliance may include for example at least one of a television a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an oven an electronic range a washing machine an air purifier a set top box a TV box for example Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV game consoles an electronic dictionary an electronic key a camcorder or an electronic frame. Additionally or alternatively the electronic device may include at least one of various medical devices e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computed Tomography CT a shooting device an ultrasonic device etc. a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an event data recorder EDR a flight data recorder FDR an automobile infotainment device electronic equipment for a ship e.g. a navigation device for a ship a gyro compass etc. an avionics or a security device.

Additionally or alternatively the electronic device may include at least one of a furniture or a portion of a building structure including a communication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector or various measurement devices e.g. waterworks electricity gas or radio waves etc. . An electronic device according to the present disclosure may be a combination of one or more of the above described devices. Also it is obvious to a person of ordinary skill in the art that the electronic device according to the present disclosure is not limited to the above described devices. Hereinafter an electronic device according to various aspects is described with reference to the accompanying drawings. A terminology of a user used in various aspects may include and indicate a person who uses an electronic device or a device e.g. an artificial intelligence electronic device that uses the electronic device.

Referring to the electronic device may include a data processing module a bus a processor a memory an input output I O interface a display module a communication interface a temperature humidity sensor or a state detection sensor .

The data processing module may include any suitable type of processing circuitry such as a processor e.g. an ARM based processor a MIPS based processor an x86 based processor etc. a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . The data processing module may correct temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor with reference to context awareness obtained by the state detection sensor of the electronic device . The data processing module may determine one or more correction engines included in a database that matches context awareness of the electronic device . The data processing module may correct temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device using a correction engine designated in a determined correction engine. The data processing module may display all or a portion of information regarding an operation of correcting the above described temperature humidity information on the display module . Although the data processing module and the processor are depicted as separate components it will be clear that in some implementations they can be integrated together.

The bus may be a circuit for connecting the above described elements with each other and transferring communication e.g. a control message between the above described elements.

The processor may include any suitable type of processing circuity such as a processor e.g. an ARM based processor a MIPS based processor an x86 based processor etc. a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . The processor may receive for example an instruction from above described other elements e.g. the memory the I O interface the display module the communication interface etc. via the bus decipher the received instruction and execute an operation or a data processing corresponding to the deciphered instruction.

The memory e.g. the memory may store an instruction or data received from the processor or other elements e.g. the I O interface the display module the communication interface etc. or generated by the processor or other elements. The memory may include for example programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API or an application etc. The above described programming modules may be configured using a software a firmware a hardware or a combination of two or more of these.

The kernel may control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor or the memory etc. used for executing an operation or a function implemented in the rest of the programming modules for example the middleware the API or the application . Also the kernel may provide an interface that allows the middleware the API or the application to access an individual element of the electronic device and control or manage the same.

The middleware may perform a mediation role so that the API or the application may communicate with the kernel to give and take data. Also in relation to task requests received from the plurality of applications the middleware may perform load balancing for a task request using a method of assigning a priority that may use a system resource e.g. the bus the processor or the memory etc. of the electronic device to at least one of the plurality of applications .

The API is an interface that allows the application to control a function provided by the kernel or the middleware and may include for example at least one interface or function for file control window control image processing or character control etc.

The I O interface may receive for example an instruction or data from a user and transfer the same to the processor or the memory via the bus . The display module may display an image a video or data etc. to the user. According to an aspect in the case where the display module is provided in the form of a touchscreen panel the user may input an instruction via a gesture of touching or hovering e.g. indirect touch input the display module .

The communication interface may connect communication between the electronic device and an auxiliary electronic device or an electronic device or a server . The communication interface may support a predetermined short distance communication protocol e.g. Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi Bluetooth BT Near Field Communication NFC or predetermined network communication e.g. the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network or a Plain Old Telephone Service POTS etc. . Each of the electronic devices and may the same e.g. the same type device as the electronic device or a different e.g. a different type device.

The temperature humidity sensor may be attached to the interior and or exterior of the electronic device to determine temperature and or humidity referred to as temperature humidity hereinafter of devices ambient temperature humidity of the electronic device . For example the temperature humidity sensor may be attached close to an earphone terminal not shown that may be directly influenced by outside temperature and or humidity of the electronic device .

The temperature humidity sensor may be attached close to a heat emitting source such as the processor and or peripherals a display unit a camera a charging module a wiring of a PCB of the electronic device to measure temperature humidity of the heat emitting source or the vicinity of the heat emitting source. In addition the temperature sensor may additionally include one or more temperature sensors at a position that may measure temperature of the interior of the electronic device without a direct influence from the heat emitting source of the electronic device . The electronic device may include one or more temperature sensors that obtain temperature humidity of the inside outside of the electronic device the processor or peripherals of the electronic device. According to various aspects temperature humidity information is temperature and or humidity information and may mean temperature information and humidity information respectively and mean both temperature information and humidity information.

The state detection sensor may be one or more sensors that may obtain context awareness of the electronic device and may be a sensor module including two or more sensors. The state detection sensor may obtain information such as a 3 dimensional coordinate a slope of the electronic device movement a moving direction of the electronic device and a state where the electronic device is positioned via sensors such as an acceleration sensor a slope sensor a gyroscope a geomagnetic sensor a GPS an luminance sensor a proximity sensor luminance sensora pupil one s eye detection sensor that may obtain information regarding a state of the electronic device a brainwave sensor and or any other suitable type of sensor.

Referring to the data processing module may include at least one of a detection module an obtain module and a providing module . Each module described below may include hardware configured to perform a described operation and or a combination of hardware and software.

The detection module may detect a designated input of the electronic device and control the temperature humidity sensor to obtain temperature information and or humidity information of the interior and or exterior of the electronic device. The detection module may detect a designated input of the electronic device and control the state detection sensor to obtain context awareness of the electronic device .

The obtain module may determine a correction engine stored in a database that matches at least one of state information obtained by the state detection module of the electronic device . The obtain module may apply a correction engine designated in a correction engine and correct temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor .

The providing module may output through the output device such as a display or a speaker at least one of a correction engine determined using context awareness of the electronic device temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor a correction process a correction state and corrected temperature humidity information.

According to various aspects the electronic device may include a memory including one or more correction values one or more temperature humidity sensors for obtaining temperature information and humidity information of the outside of the electronic device one or more state detection sensors for obtaining context awareness of the electronic device a data processing module for obtaining at least one of the temperature information and the humidity information of the outside of the electronic device obtaining the context awareness of the electronic device determining a correction value for at least one of the temperature information and the humidity information based on the context awareness and correcting at least one of the temperature information and the humidity information depending on the correction value and one or more processors e.g. the processor for controlling the data processing module .

According to various aspects the data processing module may obtain the context awareness using at least one of the acceleration sensor the slope sensor the gyroscope the geomagnetic sensor the GPS the luminance sensor the proximity sensor the pupil one s eye detection sensor and the brainwave detection sensor included in the electronic device.

According to various aspects the data processing module may incorporate at least one of 3 dimensional coordinate information slope information of the electronic device moving direction information in the case where the electronic device moves movement information vibration state information velocity or acceleration information heat emission state information inside the electronic device heat emission state information of a display module color display state information of the display module luminance sensor information height information proximity state information into the context awareness.

According to various aspects the data processing module may incorporate a correction engine for correcting the least one of the temperature information and the humidity information correction engine based on a combination of one or more ranges designated in a table of one or more sensors detecting the context awareness into the correction value. The table includes mapping information for for example the 3 dimensional coordinate information slope information of the electronic device and moving direction information in the case where the electronic device moves movement information vibration state information which are described above.

According to various aspects the data processing module may incorporate a correction engine for correcting the least one of the temperature information and the humidity information correction engine based on heat emission information of the display module corresponding to a color code regarding one or more colors displayed on the display module. The heat emission information mean amount of heat emitted by the display when a particular color or set of colors displayed.

According to various aspects the data processing module may correct at least one of the temperature information and the humidity information based on at least one of second temperature information and second humidity information and the context awareness.

According to various aspects the data processing module may receive the second temperature information and the second humidity information all or a portion of one or more correction engines from one or more other electronic devices connected with the electronic device via a network connection.

According to various aspects the data processing module may determine the correction value in a database in which mapping data are formed based on two or more correction engines which are used respectively for two or more temperature humidity sensors of the electronic device.

The electronic device may obtain internal and or external temperature humidity of the electronic device and context awareness of the electronic device via the temperature humidity sensor and or the state detection sensor . The electronic device may determine a correction engine stored in advance in the electronic device that matches the state of the electronic device via sensing information obtained by one or more sensors. When the electronic device measures temperature humidity of the inside or the outside of the electronic device using the temperature humidity sensor an interference may be generated by heat generating from one or more devices forming the inside of the electronic device . The electronic device may obtain state information regarding the exterior and or interior the of the electronic device using the state detection sensor included in the electronic device . According to an aspect the state detection sensor of the electronic device may include at least one of various sensors such as an acceleration sensor a slope sensor a gyroscope a geomagnetic sensor a GPS an luminance sensor a pupil one s eye detection sensor and a brainwave detection sensor and determine a sensor information of the circumstance of the electronic device corresponding to a predetermined region in a table e.g. of each sensor. The table includes mapping between reference data and the sensor information in order to decide a correction engine. The electronic device may set a correction engine that may correct an error of temperature humidity obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device in response to determined one or more correction engines.

Here the correction engine may be a physically configured e.g. hardware module that operates to reduce an error between temperature and or humidity information regarding the interior and or exterior of the electronic device obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device and actual temperature and or humidity in response to context awareness of the electronic device or may be a logic e.g. software module including an algorithm for processing to reduce an error between temperature and or humidity information regarding the inside outside of the electronic device obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device and actual temperature and or humidity in response to context awareness of the electronic device . The electronic device may include a plurality of correction engines corresponding to one or more correction engines configured with reference to sensing information of the state detection sensor and a performance table of the state detection sensor and determine a correction engine of the electronic device to correct temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor using the correction engine corresponding to the determined correction engine.

According to some aspects the electronic device may obtain temperature humidity information of the interior and or exterior of the electronic device and context awareness of the electronic device via the temperature humidity sensor and the state detection sensor included in a hardware region . The electronic device may control the temperature humidity sensor and the state detection sensor via a temperature humidity sensor driver or a state detection sensor driver of a kernel region in operating the temperature humidity sensor and the state detection sensor . A driver corresponding to each sensor may obtain information measured via each sensor. The electronic device may determine a correction engine that matches state information regarding the inside or the outside of the electronic device obtained by the state detection sensor of the electronic device in a framework region . The electronic device may then apply a correction engine corresponding to the determined correction engine to correct temperature humidity obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device . The electronic device may display corrected temperature humidity information or temperature humidity information that is being corrected on the display module of the electronic device . According to an aspect the electronic device may display temperature humidity information on the display module depending on User Interface UI configuration of a temperature humidity application included in an application region in displaying temperature humidity information on the display module.

Referring to the electronic device may refer to context information e.g. position information of one or more electronic devices obtained by the state detection sensor of the electronic device in correcting temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor . According to an aspect the electronic device may obtain a state of the electronic device using the state detection sensor while the electronic device is contained in a user s bag e.g. back pack . For example a proximity sensor forming the state detection sensor of the electronic device may measure an adjacent object while the electronic device is placed in a user s back pack. In case where one or more objects contained in the user s back pack are not positioned at a designated distance from the proximity sensor of the electronic device the electronic device may obtain location information regarding the interior of the user s back pack in. A luminance sensor forming the state detection sensor of the electronic device may obtain ambient illuminance information of the electronic device while the electronic device is included in the user s back pack. As described above the electronic device may determine a correction engine of the electronic device based on one or more sensing information e.g. context awareness of the electronic device obtained by one or more sensors included in the state detection sensor. Here the correction engine determined by the electronic device may be one correction engine that matches sensing information among a plurality of correction engines designated with reference to a performance table regarding one or more sensors in the memory e.g. a database of the electronic device . According to an aspect in the description of the electronic device may determine a correction engine corresponding to inside bag of the correction engine of with reference to sensing information. The electronic device may correct temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device using a designated correction engine corresponding to the determined correction engine inside bag .

Referring to the electronic device may refer to context information e.g. e.g. position information of one or more electronic devices obtained by the state detection sensor of the electronic device in correcting temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor . According to an aspect the electronic device may obtain a state of the electronic device using the state detection sensor while the electronic device is contained in a pocket closely attached to a user e.g. a trouser pocket . For example a proximity sensor forming the state detection sensor of the electronic device may detect an adjacent object while the electronic device is placed in a user s pocket. A luminance sensor forming the state detection sensor of the electronic device may obtain ambient luminance information of the electronic device while the electronic device is placed in the user s pocket. As described above the electronic device may determine a correction engine of the electronic device based on one or more items of sensed information e.g. context awareness of the electronic device obtained by one or more sensors included in the state detection sensor. Here the correction engine is selected by the electronic device among a plurality of correction engines designated based on a table regarding one or more sensors in the memory e.g. a database of the electronic device . According to an aspect in the description of the electronic device may identify a correction engine corresponding to correction engine a state of the electronic device in which the electronic device is inside a user s pocket sensed information. The electronic device may correct temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device using a designated correction engine of the identified correction engine.

The electronic device may determine a correction engine based on a correction engine regarding an operation that is being performed by the electronic device together with the above described context awareness of the electronic device e.g. position state information such as inside bag or inside pocket in correcting temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor . According to an aspect the electronic device may obtain information regarding heat emission state by an operation performed by the electronic device together with a correction engine corresponding to the above described inside pocket . The electronic device may determine a correction engine corresponding to inside packet and a correction engine that matches information regarding heat emission state based on a database and correct temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device using the determined correction engine.

Referring to the electronic device may refer to context information e.g. operation information of one or more electronic devices obtained by the state detection sensor of the electronic device in correcting temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor . The electronic device may apply a correction engine determined based on context awareness of one or more electronic devices obtained by the state detection sensor of the electronic device to correct temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device . According to an aspect the electronic device may be moving and perform one or more functions while moving. The electronic device may obtain temperature humidity information of the inside outside of the electronic device using the temperature humidity sensor while moving and obtain state information e.g. information such as a moving velocity a moving direction a movement pattern of the electronic device using the state detection sensor of the electronic device . For example the acceleration sensor forming the state detection sensor of the electronic device may obtain velocity information with which the electronic device moves. The gyro sensor forming the state detection sensor of the electronic device may obtain direction information in which the electronic device moves. As described above in the case where sensing information regarding a pattern of moving and a correction engine e.g. a correction engine moving designated based on the sensing information are included in the database of the electronic device the electronic device may determine the correction engine moving included in the database of the electronic device that matches the sensing information obtained by the state detection sensor . The electronic device may correct the temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device using a designated correction engine of the determined correction engine moving .

Referring to the electronic device may refer to context information e.g. operation information of one or more electronic devices obtained by the state detection sensor of the electronic device in correcting temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor . The electronic device may apply a correction engine determined based on context awareness of one or more electronic devices obtained by the state detection sensor of the electronic device to correct temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device . According to an aspect the electronic device may be moving and perform one or more functions while moving. The electronic device may obtain temperature humidity information of the inside outside of the electronic device using the temperature humidity sensor while moving and obtain state information e.g. information such as a moving velocity a moving direction a movement pattern of the electronic device using the state detection sensor of the electronic device . For example the acceleration sensor forming the state detection sensor of the electronic device may obtain velocity information with which the electronic device moves. The gyro sensor forming the state detection sensor of the electronic device may obtain direction information in which the electronic device moves. In addition the electronic device may obtain sensing information of a case where a user is running while carrying the electronic device via at least one of the gyro sensor the acceleration sensor the slope sensor and the geomagnetic sensor forming the state detection sensor and obtain a repeated pattern e.g. a movement pattern of the electronic device by a running operation in the obtained sensing information. In the case where sensing information regarding the pattern of running and a correction engine e.g. a correction engine running designated based on the sensing information are included in a database of the electronic device the electronic device may determine the correction engine running included in the database of the electronic device that matches sensing information obtained by the state detection sensor . The electronic device may correct temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device using a designated correction engine of the determined correction engine running .

Referring to the electronic device may output display screen configuration corresponding to an operation that is being performed by the electronic device via the display module of the electronic device . The electronic device may obtain color information used for outputting screen configuration on the display module . The electronic device may determine heat emission information that may occur in response to color information used for screen configuration output on the display module in the database. According to an aspect in the case where the display module of the electronic device is an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diodes AMOLED the display module may be a display module that outputs screen configuration using light emitting devices of red green and blue colors. The electronic device may apply power to light emitting devices of red green and blue colors in a designated method to represent various colors. Since the electronic device applies power to all of light emitting devices of red green and blue colors in case of white series color heat emission may be large compared to black series color . The electronic device may incorporate heat emission information corresponding to one or more colors represented by application of power to light emitting devices of red green and blue colors into the database. The electronic device may determine a designated correction engine with reference to color information of screen configuration that is being output on the display module and heat emission information corresponding to the color information. The color information may be the average of the RGB values of a set of pixels. Here average of a set of pixels may be used. Also the metric may be calculated for all pixels in the display or a subset of the display s pixels. The electronic device may apply the designated correction engine to correct temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor .

According to an aspect the electronic device may incorporate one or more designated programs among programs included in the electronic device or index information regarding one or more screen configurations among screen configurations corresponding to an operation performed by a program into the database and incorporate a correction engine designated by one or more indexes into the database. In instances in which a designated program operates or designated screen configuration is output the electronic device may apply a corresponding correction engine and correct temperature humidity information obtained via the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device . Though the electronic device may incorporate the above described index information into the database of the electronic device but it is not limited thereto and the electronic device may generate the index information with reference to sensing information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor and or the state detection sensor of the electronic device or obtain the index information from other electronic devices connected via network communication.

Referring to the electronic device may incorporate a color table regarding one or more colors that may be represented via the display module of the electronic device into the database. In case of displaying screen configuration regarding one or more operation states that are operating in the electronic device on the display module the electronic device may obtain color information used for screen configuration. The screen configuration is for example a configuration of state of the displayed image or a configuration of icons or a configuration of color of the screen or a configuration of brightness of the screen. The electronic device may obtain a color information based on a percentage of a used color in which the used color forms above threshold value in screen configuration. The electronic device may determine a corresponding correction engine or a corresponding correction engine with reference to a used color code and heat emission data of the ratio information of the color code.

The electronic device may determine a corresponding correction engine depending on brightness of the display module and apply the determined correction engine to correct temperature humidity information obtained via the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device . Referring to the electronic device may provide a menu e.g. a menu for controlling brightness of the display module for controlling one or more light emitting devices that control brightness of the display module in outputting screen configuration corresponding to an operation performed by the electronic device on the display module. The electronic device may divide brightness of the display module into one or more levels or steps via a menu for controlling the brightness of the display module and control the same. The electronic device may incorporate a designated correction engine corresponding to divided each brightness level into the database and determine a correction engine corresponding to a set brightness level e.g. brightness level 04 set in the menu for controlling brightness of the display module .

According to an aspect the electronic device may detect that the brightness of the display module of the electronic device has changed during an operation of correcting temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device with reference to brightness information e.g. a brightness level of the display module of the electronic device . The electronic device may determine a relevant correction engine with reference to changed brightness information of the display module . The electronic device may combine a first correction engine determined with reference to brightness information of the display module before temperature humidity information correction and a second correction engine determined with reference to brightness information of the display module changed during correction in a designated method to generate a third correction engine correct temperature humidity information using the third correction engine or apply the second correction engine to correct temperature humidity information.

In case of obtaining an inner temperature of the electronic device using the temperature humidity sensor in a circumstance of one or more heat emitting bodies e.g. devices the inner structure of the electronic device or the position of the temperature humidity sensor the electronic device may obtain temperature humidity information of different values even under the same temperature. Referring to a coordinate displayed on the electronic device may be a vector coordinate that discriminates the inner region of the electronic device . Though the temperature humidity sensor may directly measure temperature humidity it may obtain temperature of devices positioned in an inner predetermined region of the electronic device using a wire e.g. a conduction wire between substrates or modules inside the electronic device and receive temperature information and or humidity information obtained by one or more temperature sensors and or humidity sensors that measure temperature of a device positioned in an inner predetermined region of the electronic device .

Referring to according to an aspect the temperature humidity sensor may be positioned in a designated region of 1 1 width length inside the electronic device . In case of obtaining temperature of a first device that emits heat at 49 C. connected via a conduction wire positioned in a designated region of 3 6 inside the electronic device and temperature of a second device that emits heat at 49 C. connected via a conduction wire positioned in a designated region of 2 2 inside the electronic device an interference may occur due to an inner state of the electronic device when the electronic device obtains the temperature of the first device. Therefore the temperature humidity sensor may obtain the temperatures of the first device and the second device that are emitting heat at the same temperature inside the electronic device as temperatures of different values. The electronic device may incorporate a correction engine that may correct temperature humidity obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device with reference to a condition under which an interference may occur depending on an inner state of the electronic device as described above into the database. The electronic device may apply a correction engine corresponding to a designated position to temperature humidity obtained at the designated position inside the electronic device to correct the same.

The electronic device may output temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor via one or more output units such as the display module or the speaker module not shown . In case of displaying temperature humidity information using the display module the electronic device may display one or more information related to correction of temperature humidity information such as temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor temperature humidity information that is being corrected e.g. a correction process may be displayed by one or more correction engines and a temperature humidity information difference before after correction.

Referring to the electronic device may display temperature information e.g. temperature information and or humidity information e.g. humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor on the display module . The electronic device may display one or more correction engines e.g. inside bag and an inner structure determined with reference to context awareness of the electronic device in order to correct a temperature humidity information error that that is the result of the current context of the electronic device . For example in case of applying a correction engine inside bag determined with reference to obtained context awareness of the electronic device and performing correction the electronic device may display an indication of the correction such as inside bag correcting and or a mark corresponding to correcting. In case of applying a correction engine inner condition determined with reference to obtained context awareness of the electronic device and completing correction the electronic device may display an indication that the correction is complete such as inner structure correction complete . The electronic device may display an indication of temperature and an indication of the humidity .

Referring to the electronic device may display temperature humidity information before correction obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device and or temperature humidity information after correction. According to an aspect the electronic device may display temperature information e.g. 42 C. and humidity information e.g. 32 before correction obtained by the temperature humidity sensor at temperature information and humidity information displayed on the display module . The electronic device may display corrected temperature information e.g. 26 C. with application of one or more correction engines determined with reference to context awareness of the electronic device and a difference between temperature information e.g. 42 C. before correction and temperature information e.g. 26 C. after correction and display humidity information e.g. 41 and a difference between humidity information 32 before correction and humidity information 41 after correction. In the case where a user selects the difference in the temperature information or the difference in the humidity information displayed on the display module the electronic device may additionally display information regarding applied one or more correction engines and or error information.

The electronic device may receive a correction engine or temperature humidity information of an area where the electronic device is positioned from one or more other electronic devices connected via network communication. The electronic device may display state information corresponding to a numerical value obtained by comparing temperature information and or humidity information corrected with application of a correction engine with temperature information and or humidity information received via the network communication.

In operation the electronic device may obtain a temperature and or a humidity reading from the temperature humidity sensor .

In operation the electronic device may obtain context awareness of the electronic device using the state detection sensor . Obtaining the context awareness of the electronic device may include obtaining an indication of the state of the electronic device. In some implementations for example the indication of the state may be obtained using any suitable sensor that is part of the electronic device such as the state detection sensor. As noted above the state detection sensor may be used to detect any suitable indication of the state of the electronic device such as heat emission state information inside the electronic device heat emission state information of the display module color display state information of the display module luminance sensor information vibration state information acceleration information slope information height information and proximity state information.

In operation the electronic device may determine a correction value that may correct temperature humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device with reference to one or more state information.

Here the above described correction value may include a correction engine stored in the database that matches circumstance information determined by combination of one or more information among state information obtained by the electronic device or a correction engine that corrects temperature humidity information depending on the correction engine. According to an aspect the electronic device may determine a correction engine that matches information generated by combination of one or more information among obtained state information. Here the correction engine may be determined corresponding to a combination of values of a designated range among values that may be measured by sensors included in the state detection sensor of the electronic device .

According to the above various aspects though it has been described that one or more correction engines may be provided in response to a correction engine it is not limited thereto and one correction engine that operates values included in the determined correction engine and corrects temperature humidity information may be configured. Also a plurality of correction engines may be configured as a database that may interact with each other. According to an aspect the electronic device may omit an operation that determines a correction engine via state information obtained by the state detection sensor and therefore determine a correction engine corresponding to at least one of state information obtained by the state detection sensor of the electronic device .

In operation the electronic device may generate an adjusted reading based on the correction value. Generating the adjusted reading may include adding or subtracting the correction value from the reading obtained at operation .

In operation the electronic device may perform an action based on the adjusted reading. In some implementations generating the adjusted reading may include displaying the adjusted reading. Additionally or alternatively generating the adjusted reading may include.

The hardware may configure all or a portion of the electronic device illustrated in . Referring to the hardware may include one or more processors a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a communication module a sensor module a user input module a display module an interface an audio codec a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator or a motor .

The processor e.g. the processor may include one or more application processors APs or one or more communication processors CPs . The processor may be for example the processor illustrated in . Though the AP and the CP are included inside the processor in the AP and the CP may be included in different IC packages respectively. According to an aspect the AP and the CP may be included in one IC package.

The AP may drive an Operating System OS or an application to control a plurality of hardwares or software elements connected to the AP and perform various data processings including multimedia data and an operation. The AP may be implemented for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an aspect the processor may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU not shown .

The CP may perform a function of managing a data link and converting a communication protocol in communication between other electronic devices connected with the electronic device e.g. the electronic device including the hardware . The CP may be implemented as an SoC for example. According to an aspect the CP may perform at least a portion of a multimedia control function. The CP may perform for example discrimination and authentication of a terminal inside a communication network using a Subscriber Identification Module SIM e.g. a SIM card . Also the CP may provide services such as voice communication video communication a text message or packet data etc. to a user.

Also the CP may control data transmission reception of the communication module . Though elements such as the CP the power management module or the memory etc. are illustrated as elements separated from the AP in according to an aspect the AP may be implemented to include at least a portion e.g. the CP of the above described elements.

According to an aspect the AP or the CP may load an instruction or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory or other elements connected thereto to a volatile memory and process the same. Also the AP or the CP may store data received from at least one of other elements or generated by at least one of other elements in a non volatile memory.

The SIM card may be a card that implements a subscriber identify module and may be inserted into a slot formed in a specific position of an electronic device. The SIM card may include unique identify information e.g. Integrated Circuit Card Identifier ICCID or subscriber information e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory may include a built in memory or an external memory . The memory may be for example the memory illustrated in . The built in memory may include at least one of a volatile memory for example dynamic RAM DRAM static RAM SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM etc. and a non volatile memory for example one time programmable ROM OTPROM programmable ROM PROM erasable and programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable and programmable ROM EEPROM mask ROM flash ROM NAND flash memory NOR flash memory etc. . According to an aspect the built in memory may have a form of a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example compact flash CF secure digital SD micro secure digital Micro SD mini secure digital Mini SD extreme digital xD or a memory stick etc.

The communication module may include a wireless communication module or an RF module . The communication module may be for example the communication module illustrated in . The wireless communication module may include for example Wi Fi bluetooth BT a GPS or near field communication NFC . For example the wireless communication module may provide a wireless communication function using a radio frequency. Additionally or alternatively the wireless communication module may include a network interface e.g. a LAN card or a modem etc. for connecting the hardware with a network e.g. the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network or a plain old telephone service POTS etc. .

The RF module may be responsible for transmission reception of data for example transmission reception of an RF signal or a called electronic signal. The RF module may include though not shown a transceiver a power amp module PAM a frequency filter or a low noise amplifier LNA etc. for example. Also the RF module may further include a part for transmitting receiving a radio wave in a free space in wireless communication for example a conductor or a conducting wire etc.

The sensor module may include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G an RGB red green blue sensor H a living body sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an luminance sensor K or an ultra violet UV sensor M. The sensor module may measure a physical quantity or detect an operation state of the electronic device to convert the measured or detected information to an electric signal. Additionally alternatively the sensor module may include for example an E nose sensor not shown an electromyography EMG sensor not shown an electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown an electrocardiogram sensor ECG sensor not shown or a fingerprint sensor etc. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling one or more sensors belonging thereto.

The user input module may include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input unit . The user input module may be for example the I O interface illustrated in . The touch panel may recognize a touch input using at least one of capacitive resistive infrared or ultrasonic methods. Also the touch panel may further include a controller not shown . The capacitive touch panel may perform proximity recognition as well as direct touch. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel may provide a tactile reaction to a user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented using a method same as or similar to a method of receiving a user s touch input or using a separate sheet for recognition. For the key a keypad or a touch key may be used for example. The ultrasonic input unit is a device allowing a terminal to detect a sound wave using a microphone e.g. a microphone to determine data via a pen that generates an ultrasonic signal and enables wireless recognition. According to an aspect the hardware may receive a user input from an external device e.g. a network a computer or a server connected thereto using the communication module .

The display module may include a panel or a hologram . The display module may be for example the display module illustrated in . The panel may be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AMOLED etc. The panel may be for example implemented such that it is flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be configured as one module together with the touch panel . The hologram may show a 3 dimensional image in the air using interference of light. According to an aspect the display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel or the hologram .

The interface may include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB a projector or D subminiature D sub . Additionally or alternatively the interface may include for example secure digital SD multi media card MMC not shown or infrared data association IrDA not shown .

The audio codec may convert voice and an electric signal in dual directions. The audio codec may convert voice information input or output via a speaker a receiver an earphone or a microphone etc. for example.

The camera module is a device for shooting an image and a moving picture. According to an aspect the camera module may include one or more image sensors e.g. a front lens or a rear lens an image signal processor ISP not shown or a flash LED not shown .

The power management module may manage power of the hardware . Though not shown the power management module may include for example a power management integrated circuit PMIC a charger integrated circuit IC or a battery fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be mounted inside an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor for example. A charging method may be divided into a wired method and a wireless method. The charging IC may charge a battery and prevent introduction of an overvoltage or an overcurrent. According to an aspect the charging IC may include a charging IC for at least one of the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. For the wireless charging method there are a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method or an electromagnetic wave method etc. for example. An additional circuit for wireless charging for example a circuit such as a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier etc. may be added.

The battery gauge may measure for example a remnant of the battery a voltage current or temperature during charging. The battery may generate electricity to supply power and may be for example a rechargeable battery.

The indicator may display a specific state of the hardware or a portion thereof e.g. the AP for example a booting state a message state or a charging state etc. The motor may convert an electric signal to mechanical vibration. The MCU may control the sensor module .

Though not shown the hardware may include a processing unit e.g. a GPU for supporting a mobile TV. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV may process for example media data conforming to a standard such as Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB or a media flow etc. Each of the above described elements of the hardware according to the present disclosure may be configured using one or more components and a name of a relevant element may change depending on a kind of an electronic device. The hardware according to the present disclosure may include at least one of the above described elements and omit a portion of the elements or further include an additional another element. Also a portion of the elements of the hardware according to the present disclosure may combine to form one entity and equally perform the function of the relevant elements before the combination.

According to various aspects the present disclosure may obtain information regarding an interference of the electronic device that may occur in measuring outside temperature humidity of the electronic device and apply a scenario corresponding to context information of the electronic device to correct temperature humidity information measured by the electronic device so that the measured temperature may come close to actual temperature.

Methods according to the aspects described in claims and or specification of the present disclosure may be implemented in the form of a hardware a software or a combination of the hardware and the software.

In case of implementation using a software a computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs software modules may be provided. One or more programs stored in the computer readable storage medium is configured for execution by one or more processors inside the electronic device. One or more programs include instructions allowing the electronic device to execute methods according to the aspects described in claims and or specification of the present disclosure.

This program a software module a software may be stored in a random access memory a non volatile memory including a flash memory Read Only Memory ROM an Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM a magnetic disc storage device a Compact Disc ROM CD ROM Digital Versatile Discs DVDs or other types of optical storage devices and a magnetic cassette. Alternatively this program may be stored in a memory configured using all or a portion of these. Also a plurality of respective constituent memories may be provided.

This program may be stored in an attachable storage device that may access the electronic device via a communication network such as the Internet an Intranet a Local Area Network LAN a Wide LAN WLAN or a Storage Area Network SAN or a communication network configured using a combination of these. This storage device may access the electronic device via an external port. Also a separate storage device on a communication network may access a portable electronic device.

In performing various aspects of the present disclosure the electronic device may perform the aspects via a program of the memory and directly control the aspects by a processor e.g. the processor . Also the electronic device may perform the aspects via a control module e.g. the data processing module connected to the processor.

According to various aspects the processor may control a hardware correction engine that operates to correct at least one of the temperature information and the humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device with reference to the state information or a software correction engine including an algorithm that processes to correct at least one of the temperature information and the humidity information obtained by the temperature humidity sensor of the electronic device with reference to the state information. A terminology module used for the present disclosure may mean for example a unit including a combination of one or more of a hardware a software or a firmware. A module may be interchangeably used with a terminology such as a unit a logic a logical block a component or a circuit for example. A module may be a minimum unit performing one or more functions or a portion thereof. A module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module according to the present disclosure may include at least one of an application specific integrated circuit ASIC chip performing certain operations field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or a programmable logic device.

According to various aspects at least a portion of a device e.g. modules or functions thereof or a method according to the present disclosure may be implemented using an instruction stored in a computer readable storage media in the form of a programming module for example. The instruction when executed by one or more processors e.g. the processor may allow the one or more processors to perform a function corresponding to the instruction. A computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory . At least a portion of the programming module may be implemented e.g. executed by the processor for example. At least a portion of the programming module may include for example a module an application a routine sets of instructions and or a process etc. for performing one or more functions.

The above described aspects of the present disclosure can be implemented in hardware firmware or via the execution of software or computer code that can be stored in a recording medium such as a CD ROM a Digital Versatile Disc DVD a magnetic tape a RAM a floppy disk a hard disk or a magneto optical disk or computer code downloaded over a network originally stored on a remote recording medium or a non transitory machine readable medium and to be stored on a local recording medium so that the methods described herein can be rendered via such software that is stored on the recording medium using a general purpose computer or a special processor or in programmable or dedicated hardware such as an ASIC or FPGA. As would be understood in the art the computer the processor microprocessor controller or the programmable hardware include memory components e.g. RAM ROM Flash etc. that may store or receive software or computer code that when accessed and executed by the computer processor or hardware implement the processing methods described herein. In addition it would be recognized that when a general purpose computer accesses code for implementing the processing shown herein the execution of the code transforms the general purpose computer into a special purpose computer for executing the processing shown herein. Any of the functions and steps provided in the Figures may be implemented in hardware software or a combination of both and may be performed in whole or in part within the programmed instructions of a computer. No claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for .

Although the disclosure has been shown and described with reference to certain exemplary aspects thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. Therefore the scope of the present disclosure should not be limited to the above described aspects but should be determined by not only the appended claims but also the equivalents thereof.

