---

title: Method and apparatus for extraction, detection, and characterization of vapors from explosives, taggants in explosives, controlled substances, and biohazards
abstract: An improved method of extraction, detection, and characterization of a vapor from an explosive, a taggant in an explosive, a controlled substance, a biohazard, and mixtures thereof uses a new and improved SPME device for extraction and ion mobility spectrometry for detection and characterization. The new and improved SPME device has an increased capacity to sorb a target vapor. The increased sorption of vapor provides for more accurate detection by an ion mobility spectrometer. A SPME device having increased surface area may be exposed to an atmosphere in an enclosure containing a test object or a volume of gas that was in contact with the test object to allow for sorption of the target vapor and then introduced into an IMS for more accurate detection and characterization of the vapor due to the increased sorption of the vapor by the SPME device described herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09412573&OS=09412573&RS=09412573
owner: THE FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY BOARD OF TRUSTEES
number: 09412573
owner_city: Miami
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140310
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 135 954 filed Jun. 9 2008 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 630 559 which is a U.S. National Stage of PCT US2006 004074 filed Feb. 2 2006 based on U.S. Provisional Patent Application 60 649 464 filed Feb. 2 2005. The respective disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made with government support under grant 2006 DN BX K027 awarded by the National Institute of Justice. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Ion mobility spectrometry IMS is a rugged inexpensive sensitive field portable technique for the detection of organic compounds. It is widely employed in ports of entry and by the military as a particle detector for explosives and drugs of abuse. Many organic high explosives do not have a high enough vapor pressure for effective vapor sampling. However these explosives and their commercial explosive mixtures have characteristic volatile components detectable in a headspace when contained. In addition taggants are added to commercially manufactured explosives to aid in detection through headspace sampling. Solid phase microextraction SPME is an effective extraction technique that has been successfully employed in the field for the absorption and or adsorption of a variety of compounds. SPME can easily extract these compounds from the headspace for IMS vapor detection.

In 1996 Congress passed the Anti Terrorism Bill which requires the addition of detection taggants to plastic explosive compounds and the ban of sale or import of plastic explosives that do not contain a detection agent Public Law 104 132 Antiterrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act of 1996 Section 603 Apr. 24 1996 . A detection taggant is a solid or liquid vapor emitting substance added to an explosive material to facilitate discovery before detonation. A detection taggant can easily be detected by explosive vapor detectors such as ion mobility spectrometers IMS . IMS are currently used as particle detectors requiring the manual transfer of particles from a suspect area and thermal desorption into the spectrometer.

Many organic high explosives particularly those found in plastic explosives do not produce a significant vapor pressure to allow headspace vapor detection especially in the field R. G. Ewing C. J. Miller Field Anal. Chem. Technol. 5 215 221 2001 . The International Civil Aviation Organization ICAO has designated the detection taggant compounds as the following four compounds in the indicated concentrations by mass 0.5 2 nitrotoluene 2 NT 0.5 4 nitrotoluene 4 NT 0.1 2 3 dimethyl 2 3 dinitrobutane DMNB and 0.2 ethylene glycol dinitro EGDN Convention on the Marking of Plastic Explosives for the Purpose of Detection http www.mcgill.ca files iasl montreal1991.pdf accessed Feb. 6 2008 . These compounds were selected because they are not commonly found in nature they do not hinder the explosive properties of the tagged compound they continue to release their vapors at a steady rate for 5 to 10 years they do not present a significant environmental hazard and they do not readily adhere to common substances the taggant may come in contact with J. Yinon Forensic Applications of Mass Spectrometry CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. 1995 . In addition to taggant detection to determine if an improvised explosive device is present there are also additional odor signature compounds present in significant amounts for detection M. Williams J. M. Johnston M. Cicoria E. Paletz L. P. Waggoner C. Edge S. F. Hallowell Proc. SPIE 35 291 301 1998 . These odor signature compounds can be extracted using SPME and detected by IMS J. M. Perr K. G. Furton J. R. Almirall J. Sep. Sci. 28 177 183 2005 . 2. H. Lai P. Guerra M. Joshi J. R. Almirall J. Sep. Sci. 31 402 412 2008 .

The Transportation Security Administration TSA has mandated that all airports in the United States screen all bags for explosives http www.aviationnow.com avnow news channel comm.jsp view story id news capt1130.xml accessed Mar. 12 2003 . IMS is one of the screening tools approved by the TSA. These instruments can detect the taggants selected by the ICAO R. G. Ewing D. A. Atkinson G. A. Eiceman G. J. Ewing Talanta 54 515 529 2001 . Detector dog teams are another widely used screening tool D. S. Moore Rev. Sci. Instrum. 75 2499 2512 2004 .

IMS is a presumptive detection method for organic compounds that is extremely fast straightforward to use low cost with clear cut data interpretation excellent sensitivity and low power demands. Run times for commercial IMS range from 1 to 7 seconds. IMS machines have a large installed base of over 10 000 commercial instruments and 50 000 military instruments conducting over 10 000 000 analyses per year K. Cottingham Anal. Chem. 75 435A 439A 2003 . The false positive rate for swabbing of suspected areas is reported to be less than 1 while the false positive rate for air sampling of suspected areas is less than 0.1 Itemiser Contraband Drug and Explosive Detection and Identification System User s Manual revision 3.1. GE Ion Track Instruments Wilmington Mass. 1999 . For example when seventeen of the most likely false positives for 2 4 6 trinitrotoluene 2 4 6 TNT were studied it was found that only seven of those were detected by the IMS and upon careful analysis the compound that displayed the most similar mobility to TNT 4 6 dinitro o cresol 4 6 DN o C did not produce a false positive L. M. Matz P. S. Tornatore H. H. Hill Talanta 54 171 179 2001 . IMS has also been evaluated as a field screening application and found to have a number of advantages over other field deployable techniques H. H. Hill G. Simpson Field Anal. Chem. Technol. 1 119 134 1997 .

In IMS ions are separated and recognized on the basis of their mobility values. Some instruments can analyze only positive or negative ions in a determination while other instruments can analyze both positive and negative ions in the same analytical determination. The detection of explosives and taggants are typically conducted in the negative ion mode. Mobility K in cm V s is determined using the drift velocity vd in cm s of the ion through a heated drift tube and a weak electric field E in V cm that the ion is exposed to when inside the heated drift tube vd E K . Ionization occurs in the reaction region when a 63Ni source initiates ionization by emitting particles. The particles trigger a cascade of ionization reactions either with the air or with a dopant gas present in the ionization region to produce reactant ions. The reactant ions interact with the sample through ion molecule interactions to generate product ions that are detected during the analysis. Other ionization methods can be used such as a tritium particle emitter J. W. Leonhardt J. Radioanal. Nucl. Chem. 206 333 1996 photoionization D. D. Lubman M. N. Kronick Anal. Chem. 54 1546 1982 C. S. Lesure M. E. Fleischer G. K. Anderson G. A. Eiceman Anal. Chem. 58 2142 1996 H. Borsdorf H. Schelhorn J. Flachowsky H. D ring J. Stach Anal. Chim. Acta. 403 235 242 2000 and corona discharge R. A. Miller E. G. Nazarov G. A. Eiceman T. A. King Sens. Actuators A 91 301 312 2000 but ionization using the 63Ni source is the most common. Ionization results in either molecular ion or molecular clusters related to the molecular ion. Fragmentation is a rare occurrence but it has been observed in very special cases K. Cottingham Anal. Chem. 75 452A 2003 .

Also during IMS an electronic gate opens at timed intervals throughout the run to allow the ions to enter the drift region for separation to occur. The opening of the electronic gate begins the timing of the ion s flight time to reach the detector in order to calculate the drift velocity. A linear potential drop exists in the drift region to move the reactant and product ions towards the detector. Neutrals and ions of the opposite charge being analyzed are swept out of the drift region by a counter current flow of drift gas. A plasmagram results as a plot of the current measured at the collector electrode with respect to time in the millisecond ms time frame. The General Electric Ion Track Itemiser 2 collects one plasmagram every 100 ms. For a 7 s run 70 plasmagrams are recorded. The 70 collected plasmagrams then undergo a data deconvolution step in which a representative plasmagram is produced. An intensity map views all the plasmagrams collected during one run stacked on each other showing height as intensity. Dark areas represent peaks while lighter areas represent troughs. A single plasmagram can be imported into Excel and graphed.

An important factor that affects mobility is the collisional cross sectional area d in 2 . The mean free path of an ion with a large collisional cross section is shorter than those of a smaller collisional cross section. If two molecules have the same collisional cross section the heavier molecule will have a longer mean free path due to its slower velocity. The dopant gas and air within the drift tube affect the drift velocity vd by collisions making IMS a quasi mass analyzer but instead of using only mass to charge m z it uses three different parameters shape collisional cross section mass and charge.

SPME is a highly effective sample extraction technique that has been shown to be an effective tool for the analysis of volatile and semi volatile components and was named one of the six great ideas in analytical chemistry of the last decade K. G. Furton J. Wang Y. L. Hsu J. Walton J. R. Almirall J. Chromatogr. Sci. 38 297 306 2000 K. G. Furton J. R. Almirall M. Bi J. Wang W. Lu J. Chromatogr. A 885 419 432 2000 K. P. Kirkbride G. Klass P. E. Pigou J. Forensic Sci. 43 76 81 1998 J. Handley C. M. Harris Anal. Chem. 73 23A 26A 2001 . Volatile or semi volatile compounds are extracted by absorption and or adsorption onto a non volatile polymeric coating or solid sorbent phase. After the analytes are sorbed onto the SPME phase they are commonly volatilized by thermal desportion in an injection port. SPME devices come in a variety of forms including but not limited to articles coated in the SPME phase vessels lined with the SPME phase and SPME coated stir bars. A common and commercially available form of SPME is a fiber configuration. SPME has been successfully applied to the recovery of explosives and explosive vapors followed by GC MS and HPLC analysis J. R. Almirall L. Wu M. Bi M. W. Shannon K. G. Furton Proc. SPIE 35 18 23 1999 K. G. Furton L. Wu J. R. Almirall J. Forensic Sci. 45 845 852 2000 K. G. Furton R. J. Harper J. M. Perr J. R. Almirall Proc. SPIE 5071 183 192 2003 . Polydimethyl siloxane PDMS fibers have been reported as the most effective and rugged fiber for rapid headspace extraction of explosives with the least amount of carry over problems N. Lorenzo T. Wan R. J. Harper Y. Hsu M. Chow S. Rose K. G. Furton J. Anal. Bioanal. Chem. 376 1212 1224 2003 for explosive compounds.

SPME is a very effective tool for the extraction of taggants from headspace samples under ambient environmental conditions that can also be used for remote sampling. Ion mobility spectrometry is a very effective tool for detecting trace amounts of explosives and explosive taggants under ambient environmental conditions M. Nambayah T. I. Quickenden Talanta 63 461 467 2004 . Ion mobility spectrometers have been successfully interfaced to other sample introduction techniques such as a solid phase extraction SPE T. L. Buxton P. B. Harrington Appl. Spectrosc. 57 223 232 2003 gas chromatography GC J. P. Dworzanski W. H. McClennen P. A. Cole S. N. Thornton H. L. C. Meuzelaar N. S. Arnold A. P. Snyder Field Anal. Chem. Technol. 1 295 305 1997 and liquid chromatography LC S. J. Valentine M. Kulchania C. A. S. Barnes D. E. Clemmer Int. J. Mass Spectrom. 212 97 109 2001 .

A SPME IMS interface has been created to couple the extraction efficiency of SPME to the detection capability of IMS. The demand for this sort of field portable remote reliable sampling is high J. Yinon Anal. Chem. 75 99A 105A 2003 . The SPME ISM interface shown meets this need by extracting vapors from explosives taggants in explosives controlled substances biohazards and mixtures thereof detectable target vapors or detectable vapors from a headspace for subsequent detection by a commercially available IMS in a simple rapid sensitive and inexpensive manner.

Ranges may be expressed herein as from about or approximately one particular value and or to about or approximately another particular value. When such range is expressed another embodiment includes from the one particular value and or to the other particular value. Similarly when values are expressed as approximates by use of the antecedent about it will be under that the particular value forms another embodiment.

An apparatus and method for extraction of a detectable target vapor from a volatile compound such as an explosive taggant in an explosive controlled substance biohazard and mixtures thereof and methods for subsequent detection and characterization of the target vapor by an ion mobility spectrometry IMS are disclosed. The apparatus may comprise a tube having an inlet a resistor for heating the tube a connector fitted to the inlet a septum fitted and sealed to the connector and a new and improved solid phase microextraction SPME device adapted to be first exposed to an atmosphere that has been exposed to an object that may contain a volatile compound such as an explosive a taggant in an explosive a controlled substance a biohazard or mixtures thereof thereby allowing the SPME device to absorb and or adsorb a detectable target vapor from the volatile compound. The SPME device may have increased surface area to allow for increased absorption and or adsorption of the vapor. The SPME device may be further adapted to be introduced into the apparatus for volatilization and introduction of the vapor into a sample receiving area of an IMS for detection and characterization of the target vapor.

Also disclosed is a method for extraction detection and characterization of a vapor a volatile compound such as an explosive a taggant in an explosive a controlled substances a biohazard or mixtures thereof. The method may comprise the steps of 1 exposing a SPME device to an atmosphere in an enclosure containing a test object thereby allowing the SPME device to absorb and or adsorb the target vapor emitted from said object thereby concentrating the target vapor in and or on the SPME device and 2 introducing the SPME device into a sample receiving area of an apparatus for volatilization of the concentrated target vapor from the SPME device and introduction of the concentrated target vapor into an IMS for detection and characterization of the vapor.

Another method for extraction detection and characterization of a vapor from a volatile compound such as an explosive a taggant in an explosive a controlled substance a biohazard or mixtures thereof may include the steps of 1 contacting a test object with a volume of gas to form a mixture of said gas with a detectable vapor 2 exposing a SPME device to said gas to allow for absorption and or adsorption of the detectable target vapor and 3 introducing the SPME device into an apparatus for thermal desorption and introduction of the target vapor into an IMS for detection and characterization of the target vapor.

The SPME device described herein has increased surface area adapted for improved absorption and or adsorption of a vapor from a volatile compound such as an explosive a taggant in an explosive a controlled substance a biohazard or mixtures thereof and subsequent more reliable detection and characterization by an IMS. In accordance with the SPME devices and detection methods used and described here the SPME devices may include a substrate and a volatile compound sorptive coating disposed on the substrate and capable of absorbing and or adsorbing a vapor from an explosive a taggant in an explosive a controlled substance a biohazard or mixtures thereof in an amount sufficient for detection in an IMS. In accordance with a preferred embodiment the SPME device may have a surface area of at least 50 mm.

A method of preparing the SPME devices having increased surface area is also disclosed. In one embodiment of the SPME devices and detection methods described herein the SPME devices are prepared for accurate detection by first cleansing the substrate e.g. with a cleansing agent or mixture prior to coating the substrate preparing a volatile compound sorptive coating mixture and then coating the substrate with the volatile compound sorptive coating mixture to form a volatile compound sorptive coating that is capable of absorbing and or adsorbing a target vapor from a volatile compound such as an explosive a taggant in an explosive a controlled substance a biohazard or mixtures thereof in an amount sufficient for detection in an IMS.

A new and improved method of extracting a detectable target vapor from a volatile compound such as an explosive a taggant in an explosive a controlled substance a biohazard or mixtures thereof using a new and improved SPME device having an increased capacity to sorb the target vapor is also disclosed. The improved absorption and or adsorption of the vapor allows for better extraction of the target vapor and provides for more accurate detection and characterization by an IMS. In one embodiment of the new and improved method the method may include preparing a new and improved SPME device having increased surface area and exposing the SPME device to an atmosphere in an enclosure containing a test object or a volume of gas that was in contact with the test object to allow for absorption and or adsorption of the target vapor. The SPME device may then be introduced into a sample receiving area of an IMS for more accurate detection and characterization of the target vapor due to the increased absorption and or adsorption of the target vapor by the SPME devices described herein.

The devices apparatus and methods described herein together with further objects and attendant advantages will be best understood by reference to the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Referring now to a solid phase microextraction ion mobility spectrometry SPME IMS interface is shown. The SPME IMS interface is a second generation prototype that was constructed for less than 1000 US . An aluminum tube was machined to form an inlet see that can be heated using a resistor . A pentiostat see was used to provide current to the resistor for example. A first aluminum cylindrical heating block and a second aluminum heating block may also be disposed on or near opposite ends of the aluminum tube as shown in . The inlet was coated with a 1200 Silcosteel layer treatment Restek Bellefonte Pa. to deactivate the surface. Ultra high purity helium carrier gas Air Products Allentown Pa. the heat generated by the resistor and the first and second cylindrical heating blocks were used to desorb the analytes off a SPME device . A calibrated 150 mm aluminum 15 turn high accuracy valve flow meter from Gilmont Instruments Barrington Ill. was used to control the flow of helium through the SPME IMS interface . Of course various other types of valve flow meters may be used in conjunction with the interface of the present invention as this particular model is representative only. A Swagelok union t connector purchased from Florida Fluid Systems Technologies Inc. Sunrise Fla. was fitted onto the sample thermal desorption inlet see . For example a Swagelock Male Run Tee in. Tube OD in. Male NPT in. Tube OD may be used. A 5 mm Thermogreen septum was machine punched out from an 11 mm Thermogreen Supelco Belefonte Pa. septa using a punch. The 5 mm septum was fitted into one of the caps on the union t connector and sealed in place using the back ferrule of the union t connector. Again of course other types of septa and connectors may be used in accordance with the interface of the present invention as the aforementioned components while used in the SPME IMS interface described herein are representative only. The total length of the SPME IMS device is 11 cm.

Referring now to the SPME IMS interface further includes a housing . The housing may be formed of metal a metal alloy or other material. A thermocouple is also shown see also which senses the temperature of the resistor based on the principle that voltage is produced when two dissimilar metals are joined. The pentiostat may be disposed on a first side of the housing as shown in for example. A fuse and a power switch are disposed on a second side of the housing and a power cord is disposed on a third side of the interface housing . Of course the pentiostat the fuse the power switch and the power cord may alternatively be disposed on other areas of the housing resulting in alternative configurations that would not depart in the least from the spirit and scope of the present invention. An ion mobility spectrometer inlet nozzle which is attached to interface near the second aluminum cylindrical heating block is also disposed on the third side of the housing . Lastly an insulating material such as a glass wool insulating material encircles the resistor .

A septum is adapted to receive a SPME device not shown . Upon exposure to heat vapors emitted from the SPME device are conveyed by the carrier gas through connector . Referring to heat may be supplied by a resistor in the form of resistor block for example.

In accordance with the apparatus and methods described herein a SPME device having increased capacity for absorption and or adsorption of a detectable target vapor is first exposed to air or other gaseous atmosphere in an enclosed space containing an object e.g. a suitcase or other container having a volume sufficient to contain an explosive biohazard or controlled substance allowing for sorption i.e. absorption and or adsorption of the target vapor. The SPME device is then introduced into the interface for volatilization and introduction of the concentrated target vapor into the IMS. Volatilization of a detectable quantity of the target vapor can be achieved by thermal desorption. The IMS then detects and characterizes the target vapor to indicate whether a volatile compound such as an explosive a taggant in an explosive a controlled substance a biohazard or mixtures thereof are present in the object. Using the SPME device and methods herein described more accurate detection can be achieved.

A SPME device s capacity for absorption and or adsorption of a detectable target vapor as well as its sensitivity may be enhanced by increasing the amount of SPME phase able to participate in the absorption and or adsorption of the target vapor. By increasing the surface area of the SPME device the amount of SPME phase able to participate in absorption and or adsorption of the vapor is increased without appreciably increasing sorption time. The SPME device may also be sized for use in a sample receiving area of a conventional IMS thereby providing for a low cost method of performing SPME and IMS in combination.

Referring to the SPME device comprises a substrate and a volatile compound sorptive coating . The substrate may be for example substantially planar and may have the shape of a rectangle a square or any other suitable geometry. Preferably the substrate has a disc shape. The substrate may be formed of any suitable material such as for example a metal plastic or ceramic. For example the substrate may be glass fused silica aluminum or stainless steel. The substrate may be flexible or rigid. Preferably the substrate has a size and shape that substantially corresponds to the desired size and shape of the SPME device . Preferably the SPME device has a flat disc shape.

The substrate has first and second major surfaces . The first and second major surfaces may for example be planar. Preferably the first and second major surfaces have a circular shape. However the first and second major surfaces may have any other suitable shape such as for example a square or rectangular shape. The first and second major surfaces may each have a surface area of from approximately 5 to 2500 mm. Preferably the first and second major surfaces each have a surface area of from approximately 60 to 100 mm. Most preferably the first and second major surfaces each have a surface area of from approximately 250 to 500 mm.

The substrate may have one or more side surfaces disposed between and integrally connected to the first and second major surfaces . The side surfaces may be for example planar or rounded. The SPME device may have a thickness of approximately 0.5 to 5 mm. Preferably the SPME device may have a thickness of approximately 0.5 to 2 mm.

Referring to any one or more of the surfaces of the SPME device can be coated with a vapor sorption medium such as poly dimethylsiloxane to form a volatile compound sorptive coating . For example an entire surface of the substrate including the first and second major surfaces and the one or more sides surfaces may be coated with the vapor sorption medium such that the volatile compound sorptive coating is disposed over the entire surface of the substrate . Alternatively for example only the first and second major surfaces may be coated with the vapor sorption medium.

The volatile compound sorptive coating is capable of absorption and or adsorption of target vapors such as vapors from explosives taggants in explosives controlled substances biohazards or mixtures thereof. The volatile compound sorptive coating may have a thickness of approximately 20 to 200 m.

Sorption media capable of sorbing absorbing or adsorbing a detectable quantity of target vapors include for example carbowax carboxan divinylbenzene poly dimethylsiloxane PDMS sol gel PDMS carbowax polyethylene glycol CW PEG carbowax templated resin CW TPR carboxen polydimethylsiloxane CAR PDMS divinylbenzene carboxen polydimethylsiloxane DVB CAR PDMS polydimethylsiloxane divinylbenzene PDMS DVB and polyacrylate PA and the like. The preferred sorption medium is an absorbent siloxane coating particularly PDMS and sol gel PDMS. Any sorption media capable of forming a volatile compound sorptive coating that is capable of absorbing and or adsorbing target vapors may be used.

The SPME device may have a total surface area for example of at least 25 mm. Preferably the SPME device may have a surface area of from approximately 25 to 5000 mm.

The surface area of the volatile compound sorptive coating of the SPME device is at least 25 mm. Preferably the volatile compound sorptive coating has a surface area of from approximately 25 to 5000 mm. More preferably the volatile compound sorptive coating has a surface area of approximately 500 to 1000 mm.

Referring to the SPME device may be sized for example to substantially fit in a sample receiving area of a conventional IMS . By sizing the SPME device to fit in the sample receiving area of a conventional IMS SPME IMS can be performed in combination without modification of the IMS and thus at lower cost. Additionally the SPME IMS interface may for example be adapted for loading of a SPME device . The SPME IMS interface may for example be adapted for loading of a SPME device having a size and a shape that does not fit in the sample receiving area of a conventional IMS for example a SPME device that is larger than the sample receiving area of a conventional IMS .

To form the SPME device the substrate having a desired size and geometry is prepared. The first and second major surface and side surfaces of the substrate may be prepared for example by exposing the substrate to a cleansing agent or mixture. The cleansing mixture may for example be a solution of HSOand HO. The solution may consist for example of an approximately 2 to 1 ratio of HSOto HO. The substrate may then be rinsed using deionized water. If for example a glass substrate is used the substrate may be further prepared by placing the substrate into a sodium hydroxide NaOH solution to expose the silanols on the glass to allow for proper bonding of the volatile compound sorptive coating mixture. The glass substrate may then be rinsed using deionized water. If for example a metal substrate is used a metal surface preparation may be completed. See A. Franquet H. Terryn and J. Vereecken. Surf. Interface Anal. 36 681 684 2004 . The metal substrate may be prepared by immersing the substrate in a mixture of an approximately 1 to 5 ratio of perchloric acid to ethanol at a temperature of approximately 10 C. The metal substrate is then ultrasonically cleaned by dipping it successively into hexane acetone and methanol. The metal substrate is held in each chemical for approximately 5 minutes. An alkaline cleaning may then be performed by immersing the ultrasonically clean substrate for approximately 8 minutes at a temperature of approximately 65 C. in a 7.5 vol. AC1055 Chemetall Frankfurt Germany solution using distilled water as a solvent. The metal substrate are then thoroughly rinsed with distilled water and blow dried.

A volatile compound sorptive coating mixture may be prepared or obtained. If for example the desired volatile compound sorptive coating is poly dimethylsiloxane PDMS a coating mixture that includes chlorine terminated poly dimethylsiloxane and dichloromethane may be prepared. Preferably the coating mixture includes an approximately 3 to 1 ratio of chlorine terminated poly dimethylsiloxane to dichloromethane. Any other volatile compound sorptive coating mixture that is suitable for absorption and or adsorption of a target vapor from a volatile compound such as an explosive a taggant in an explosive a controlled substance a biohazard or mixtures thereof may be used.

The volatile compound sorptive coating mixture may also be prepared using for example a sol gel technique. The sol gel process involves the transition of a system from a liquid sol to a solid gel phase. In this process the precursor MTMOS for example is subject to hydrolysis and polycondensation to form a colloidal suspension sol . If for example a PDMS coating is desired a PDMS coating mixture may be prepared by sol gel technique. The sol gel preparation of a PDMS coating mixture may include for example dissolving vinyl terminated PDMS in MeCl adding MTMOS PMHS and TFA.

The substrate is coated with the volatile compound sorptive coating mixture to form a volatile compound sorptive coating . The substrate may be coated by spin coating or dip coating for example. If the substrate is glass the substrate may be coated for example with PDMS using an oxygen plasma treatment. Any other suitable coating method may be used as well. To coat the substrate by dip coating for example the substrate is immersed in the volatile compound sorptive coating mixture and held for a period of time. The substrate is then withdrawn from the volatile compound sorptive coating mixture and the solvent is allowed to evaporate. To coat the substrate using a spin coating method for example the volatile compound sorptive coating mixture is deposited on the substrate . The substrate is then rotated at high speeds to distribute the volatile compound sorptive coating mixture by centrifugal force. Rotation is continued until the desired thickness of a volatile compound sorptive coating is achieved. The coating process may further include curing the coated substrate . The coated substrate may be cured for example in an oven under nitrogen.

The volatile compound sorptive coating disposed on the substrate is capable of absorbing and or adsorbing a target vapor from a volatile compound such as an explosive a taggant in an explosive a controlled substance a biohazard or mixtures thereof. Preferably the volatile compound sorptive coating is PDMS or sol gel PDMS. Any volatile compound sorptive coating suitable for absorptive and or adsorptive of target vapors from a volatile compound such as an explosive a taggant in an explosive a controlled substance a biohazard or mixtures thereof may be used. Other suitable volatile compound sorptive coatings may include for example carbowax carboxan divinylbenzene DVB polyurethane and polyacrylate. Mixed phase volatile compound sorptive coatings may also be used and may include for example carbowax polyethylene glycol CW PEG carbowax templated resin CW TPR carboxen polydimethylsiloxane CAR PDMS divinylbenzene carboxen polydimethylsiloxane DVB CAR PDMS polydimethylsiloxane divinylbenzene PDMS DVB .

The SPME device may be used for sorption of any vapor capable of being sorbed and concentrated therein or thereon preferably a target vapor from a volatile compound such as an explosive a taggant in an explosive a controlled substance a biohazard or mixtures thereof by absorption and or adsorption of the vapor by the volatile compound sorptive coating . To extract a target vapor from a volatile compound the SPME device may be first exposed to air or another gaseous atmosphere in an enclosed space containing an object to allow for absorption and or adsorption of one or more target vapors and concentration of the target vapor in and or on the SPME device . Alternatively a test object may be contacted with a volume of gas and the SPME device may be exposed to the volume of gas to allow for absorption and or adsorption of vapors contained in the volume of gas. The SPME device may then be introduced into a sample receiving area of an IMS for volatilization of the target vapor from the SPME device and introduction of the target vapor into the IMS . The IMS can then detect and characterize the vapor. Thermal desorption may be used for example to introduce the vapor into the IMS .

The combination of SPME and IMS can have a large range of applications all that is required is extraction of the target vapor by the SPME phase and the ability to detect the vapor by IMS. As described the application of the SPME IMS interface the new and improved SPME device and the method of extraction detection and characterization will allow for the vapor sampling of volatile compounds such as explosives taggants in explosives controlled substance biohazards or mixtures thereof and detection and characterization of the vapor samples by IMS. The combination of SPME and IMS using the new and improved SPME devices may allow for more accurate detection and characterization and may also simplify the detection process and allow for rapid field sampling of large rooms and containers.

Moreover because the SPME device has increased amount of SPME phase able to participate in extraction it can absorb and or adsorb an increased amount of the target vapor and thereby improve sensitivity and accuracy of the detection method without appreciably increasing the extraction time. The improved sensitivity may allow for detection and characterization of characteristic vapors that cannot be detected by prior art methods or devices.

The present invention has been described with reference to specific examples which are intended to be illustrative only and not to be limiting of the invention. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that changes additions and or deletions may be made to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

