---

title: Gaming headset with voice scrambling for private in-game conversations
abstract: An electronic device may be configurable to operate in a scrambling mode and a non-scrambling mode while processing chat audio and microphone audio for a first player participating in an online multiplayer game via a game console. While operating in the non-scrambling mode, the electronic device may be configured to transmit the microphone audio to the game console without scrambling the microphone audio. While operating in the scrambling mode, the electronic device may be configured to scramble the microphone audio and transmit the scrambled microphone audio to the game console. The electronic device may be operable to select a scrambling key used to scramble the microphone audio based on a signal received by the electronic device that indicates a role of the player in the online multiplayer game. The role of the player may correspond to which of two or more opposing teams the first player is a member of in the online multiplayer game.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09392355&OS=09392355&RS=09392355
owner: Voyetra Turtle Beach, Inc.
number: 09392355
owner_city: Valhalla
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140729
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. provisional patent application 61 879 985 titled Gaming Headset with Voice Scrambling for Private In Game Conversations which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 144 titled Gaming Headset with Programmable Audio and published as US2012 0014553 is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Aspects of the present application relate to electronic gaming. More specifically to methods and systems for gaming headset with voice scrambling for private in game conversations.

Limitations and disadvantages of conventional approaches to audio processing for gaming will become apparent to one of skill in the art through comparison of such approaches with some aspects of the present method and system set forth in the remainder of this disclosure with reference to the drawings.

Methods and systems are provided for gaming headset with voice scrambling for private in game conversations substantially as illustrated by and or described in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

As utilized herein the terms circuits and circuitry refer to physical electronic components i.e. hardware and any software and or firmware code which may configure the hardware be executed by the hardware and or otherwise be associated with the hardware. As used herein for example a particular processor and memory may comprise a first circuit when executing a first one or more lines of code and may comprise a second circuit when executing a second one or more lines of code. As utilized herein and or means any one or more of the items in the list joined by and or . As an example x and or y means any element of the three element set x y x y . As another example x y and or z means any element of the seven element set x y z x y x z y z x y z . As utilized herein the terms e.g. and for example set off lists of one or more non limiting examples instances or illustrations. As utilized herein circuitry is operable to perform a function whenever the circuitry comprises the necessary hardware and code if any is necessary to perform the function regardless of whether performance of the function is disabled or not enabled by some user configurable setting.

Referring to there is shown game console which may be for example a Windows computing device a Unix computing device a Linux computing device an Apple OSX computing device an Apple iOS computing device an Android computing device a Microsoft Xbox a Sony Playstation a Nintendo Wii or the like. The example game console comprises a video interface radio data interface network interface video interface audio interface southbridge main system on chip SoC memory optical drive and storage device . The SoC comprises central processing unit CPU graphics processing unit GPU audio processing unit APU cache memory and memory management unit MMU . The various components of the game console are communicatively coupled through various busses links and .

The southbridge comprises circuitry that supports one or more data bus protocols such as High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Universal Serial Bus USB Serial Advanced Technology Attachment 2 SATA 2 embedded multimedia card interface e.MMC Peripheral Component Interconnect Express PCIe or the like. The southbridge may receive audio and or video from an external source via link e.g. HDMI from the optical drive e.g. Blu Ray via link e.g. SATA 2 and or from storage e.g. hard drive FLASH memory or the like via link e.g. SATA 2 and or e.MMC . Digital audio and or video is output to the SoC via link e.g. CEA 861 E compliant video and IEC 61937 compliant audio . The southbridge exchanges data with radio via link e.g. USB with external devices via link e.g. USB with the storage via the link and with the SoC via the link e.g. PCIe .

The radio comprises circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wireless standards such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like.

The network interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more wired standards and to convert between wired standards. For example the network interface may communicate with the SoC via link using a first standard e.g. PCIe and may communicate with the network using a second standard e.g. gigabit Ethernet .

The video interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate video in accordance with one or more wired or wireless video transmission standards. For example the video interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant video data via link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the monitor via an HDMI link .

The audio interface may comprise circuitry operable to communicate audio in accordance with one or more wired or wireless audio transmission standards. For example the audio interface may receive CEA 861 E compliant video data via link and encapsulate format etc. the video data in accordance with an HDMI standard for output to the monitor via an HDMI link .

The central processing unit CPU may comprise circuitry operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the game console . Such instructions may be part of an operating system of the console and or part of one or more software applications running on the console.

The graphics processing unit GPU may comprise circuitry operable to perform graphics processing functions such as compression decompression encoding decoding D rendering and or the like.

The audio processing unit APU may comprise circuitry operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding surround sound processing and or the like to output single channel or multi channel e.g. 2 channels for stereo or 5 7 or more channels for surround sound audio signals. The APU comprises memory e.g. volatile and or non volatile memory which stores parameter settings affect processing of audio by the APU . For example the parameter settings may include a first audio gain volume setting that determines at least in part a volume of game audio output by the console and a second audio gain volume setting that determines at least in part a volume of chat audio output by the console . The parameter settings may be modified via a graphical user interface GUI of the console and or via an application programming interface API provided by the console .

The cache memory comprises high speed memory typically DRAM for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The memory may comprise additional memory for use by the CPU GPU and or APU . The memory typically DRAM may operate at a slower speed than the cache memory but may also be less expensive than cache memory as well as operate at a higher speed than the memory of the storage device . The MMU controls accesses by the CPU GPU and or APU to the memory the cache and or the storage device .

In the example game console is communicatively coupled to a user interface device a user interface device a network a monitor and audio subsystem .

Each of the user interface devices and may comprise for example a game controller a keyboard a motion sensor position tracker or the like. The user interface device communicates with the game console wirelessly via link e.g. Wi Fi Direct Bluetooth and or the like . The user interface device communicates with the game console via the wired link e.g. USB or the like .

The network comprises a local area network and or a wide area network. The game console communicates with the network via wired link e.g. Gigabit Ethernet .

The monitor may be for example a LCD OLED or PLASMA screen. The game console sends video to the monitor via link e.g. HDMI .

The audio subsystem may be for example a headset a combination of headset and audio basestation or a set of speakers and accompanying audio processing circuitry. The game console sends audio to the subsystem via link s e.g. S PDIF for digital audio or line out for analog audio . Additional details of an example audio subsystem are described below.

Referring to again shown is the console connected to a plurality of peripheral devices and a network . The example peripheral devices shown include a monitor a user interface device a headset an audio basestation and a multi purpose device .

The monitor and user interface device are as described above. An example implementation of the headset is described below with reference to . An example implementation of the audio basestation is described below with reference to .

The multi purpose device may be for example a tablet computer a smartphone a laptop computer or the like and that runs an operating system such as Android Linux Windows iOS OSX or the like. An example implementation of the multi purpose device is described below with reference to . Hardware e.g. a network adaptor and software i.e. the operating system and one or more applications loaded onto the device may configure the device for operating as part of the GPN . For example an application running on the device may cause display of a graphical user interface via which a user can access gaming related data commands functions parameter settings etc. and via which the user can interact with the console and the other devices of the GPN to enhance his her gaming experience.

The peripheral devices are in communication with one another via a plurality of wired and or wireless links represented visually by the placement of the devices in the cloud of GPN . Each of the peripheral devices in the gaming peripheral network GPN may communicate with one or more others of the peripheral devices in the GPN in a single hop or multi hop fashion. For example the headset may communicate with the basestation in a single hop e.g. over a proprietary RF link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the tablet may communicate with the basestation in two hops via the headset . As another example the user interface device may communicate with the headset in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link and with the device in a single hop e.g. over a Bluetooth or Wi Fi direct link while the device may communicate with the headset in two hops via the user interface device . These example interconnections among the peripheral devices of the GPN are merely examples any number and or types of links among the devices of the GPN is possible.

The GPN may communicate with the console via any one or more of the connections and described above. The GPN may communicate with a network via one or more links each of which may be for example Wi Fi wired Ethernet and or the like.

A database which stores gaming audio data is accessible via the network . The gaming audio data may comprise for example signatures of particular audio clips e.g. individual sounds or collections or sequences of sounds that are part of the game audio of particular games of particular levels scenarios of particular games particular characters of particular games etc. In an example implementation the database may comprise a plurality of records where each record comprises an audio clip or signature of the clip a description of the clip e.g. the game it is from when it occurs in the game etc. one or more gaming commands associated with the clip one or more parameter settings associated with the clip and or other data associated with the audio clip. Records of the database may be downloadable to or accessed in real time by one of more devices of the GPN .

Referring to there is shown two views of an example headset that may present audio output by a gaming console such as the console . The headset comprises a headband a microphone boom with microphone ear cups and which surround speakers and connector connector and user controls .

The connector may be for example a 3.5 mm headphone socket for receiving analog audio signals e.g. receiving chat audio via an Xbox talkback cable .

The microphone converts acoustic waves e.g. the voice of the person wearing the headset to electric signals for processing by circuitry of the headset and or for output to a device e.g. console basestation a smartphone and or the like that is in communication with the headset.

The user controls may comprise dedicated and or programmable buttons switches sliders wheels etc. for performing various functions. Example functions which the controls may be configured to perform include power the headset on off mute unmute the microphone control gain volume of and or effects applied to chat audio by the audio processing circuitry of the headset control gain volume of and or effects applied to game audio by the audio processing circuitry of the headset enable disable initiate pairing e.g. via Bluetooth Wi Fi direct or the like with another computing device and or the like.

The connector may be for example a USB port. The connector may be used for downloading data to the headset from another computing device and or uploading data from the headset to another computing device. Such data may include for example parameter settings described below . Additionally or alternatively the connector may be used for communicating with another computing device such as a smartphone tablet compute laptop computer or the like.

The radio may comprise circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s e.g. a proprietary protocol for receiving audio from an audio basestation such as the basestation .

The CPU may comprise circuitry operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the headset . Such instructions may be part of an operating system or state machine of the headset and or part of one or more software applications running on the headset . In some implementations the CPU may be for example a programmable interrupt controller a state machine or the like.

The storage device may comprise for example FLASH or other nonvolatile memory for storing data which may be used by the CPU and or the audio processing circuitry . Such data may include for example parameter settings that affect processing of audio signals in the headset and parameter settings that affect functions performed by the user controls . For example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a gain of one or more gain elements of the audio processing circuitry . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a frequency response of one or more filters that operate on audio signals in the audio processing circuitry . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part whether and which sound effects are added to audio signals in the audio processing circuitry e.g. which effects to add to microphone audio to morph the user s voice . Example parameter settings which affect audio processing are described in the co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 144 titled Gaming Headset with Programmable Audio and published as US2012 0014553 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Particular parameter settings may be selected autonomously by the headset in accordance with one or more algorithms based on user input e.g. via controls and or based on input received via one or more of the connectors and .

The memory may comprise volatile memory used by the CPU and or audio processing circuit as program memory for storing runtime data etc.

The audio processing circuit may comprise circuitry operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding introduction of audio effects e.g. echo phasing virtual surround effect etc. and or the like. As described above the processing performed by the audio processing circuit may be determined at least in part by which parameter settings have been selected. The processing may be performed on game chat and or microphone audio that is subsequently output to speaker and . Additionally or alternatively the processing may be performed on chat audio that is subsequently output to the connector and or radio .

In an example implementation the audio processing circuit comprises circuitry operable to perform scrambling and or descrambling of chat audio. For any particular burst of chat audio scrambling and descrambling of the burst may use a key or key pair previously exchanged established between sender and intended recipient of the audio burst. For example for a first headset to transmit a scrambled burst of chat audio to a second headset e.g. via network the circuit of the first headset may scramble the burst using a particular key and the circuit of the second headset may then use the same key for symmetric key implementations or a complementary key for asymmetric key implementations to descramble the burst. In an example implementation the circuit of the second headset may identify the appropriate key for descrambling the burst based on an identification signal prepended appended and or embedded in the audio burst. For example the circuit in a sending headset may prepend an audio burst with a signal in an audible or non audible frequency band that identifies the sending device the intended recipient of the burst and or a key required for descrambling the burst. Additional example details of scrambling chat audio for private communications among a subset of participants in a gaming chat are described below with reference to .

The audio connectors and may comprise digital audio in and digital audio out e.g. S PDIF connectors respectively. The audio connectors and may comprise a left line in and a right line in connector respectively. The controls may comprise for example a power button a button for enabling disabling virtual surround sound a button for adjusting the perceived angles of the speakers when the virtual surround sound is enabled and a dial for controlling a volume gain of the audio received via the line in connectors and . The status indicators may indicate for example whether the audio basestation is powered on whether audio data is being received by the basestation via connectors and or what type of audio data e.g. Dolby Digital is being received by the basestation .

The radio comprises circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary e.g. proprietary protocol for receiving audio protocols for receiving audio from a console such as the console . wireless protocols.

The radio comprises circuitry operable to communicate in accordance with one or more standardized such as for example the IEEE 802.11 family of standards the Bluetooth family of standards and or the like and or proprietary wireless protocol s e.g. a proprietary protocol for transmitting audio to headphones .

The CPU comprises circuitry operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the audio basestation . Such instructions may be part of an operating system or state machine of the audio basestation and or part of one or more software applications running on the audio basestation . In some implementations the CPU may be for example a programmable interrupt controller a state machine or the like.

The storage may comprise for example FLASH or other nonvolatile memory for storing data which may be used by the CPU and or the audio processing circuitry . Such data may include for example parameter settings that affect processing of audio signals in the basestation . For example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a gain of one or gain elements of the audio processing circuitry . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part a frequency response of one or more filters that operate on audio signals in the audio processing circuitry . As another example one or more parameter settings may determine at least in part whether and which sound effects are added to audio signals in the audio processing circuitry e.g. which effects to add to microphone audio to morph the user s voice . Example parameter settings which affect audio processing are described in the co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 144 titled Gaming Headset with Programmable Audio and published as US2012 0014553 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. Particular parameter settings may be selected autonomously by the basestation in accordance with one or more algorithms based on user input e.g. via controls and or based on input received via one or more of the connectors and .

The memory may comprise volatile memory used by the CPU and or audio processing circuit as program memory for storing runtime data etc.

The audio processing circuit may comprise circuitry operable to perform audio processing functions such as volume gain control compression decompression encoding decoding introduction of audio effects e.g. echo phasing virtual surround effect etc. and or the like. As described above the processing performed by the audio processing circuit may be determined at least in part by which parameter settings have been selected. The processing may be performed on game and or chat audio signals that are subsequently output to a device e.g. headset in communication with the basestation . Additionally or alternatively the processing may be performed on a microphone audio signal that is subsequently output to a device e.g. console in communication with the basestation .

In an example implementation the audio processing circuit comprises circuit operable to perform scrambling and or descrambling of chat audio. For any particular burst of chat audio scrambling and descrambling of the burst may use a key or key pair previously exchanged established between sender and intended recipient of the audio burst. For example for a basestation to transmit a scrambled burst of chat audio to a headset the circuit of the basestation may scramble the burst using a particular key and the circuit of the headset may then use the same key for symmetric key implementations or a complementary key for asymmetric key implementations to descramble the burst. As another example for a first basestation to transmit a scrambled burst of chat audio to a second basestation e.g. via network the circuit of the first basestation may scramble the burst using a particular key and the circuit of the second basestation may then use the same key for symmetric key implementations or a complementary key for asymmetric key implementations to descramble the burst. In an example implementation the circuit or of the receiving device may identify the appropriate key for descrambling the burst based on an identification signal prepended appended and or embedded in the audio burst. For example the circuit of the basestation may prepend the audio burst with a signal in an audible or non audible frequency band that identifies the sender of the burst the intended recipient of the burst and or a key required for descrambling the burst. Additional example details of scrambling chat audio for private communications among a subset of participants in a gaming chat are described below with reference to .

The application processor comprises circuitry operable to execute instructions for controlling coordinating the overall operation of the multi purpose device as well as graphics processing functions of the multi purpose device . Such instructions may be part of an operating system of the device and or part of one or more software applications running on the device .

The memory subsystem comprises volatile memory for storing runtime data nonvolatile memory for mass storage and long term storage and or a memory controller which controls reads writes to memory.

The cellular GPS networking subsystem comprises circuitry operable to perform baseband processing and analog RF processing for transmission and reception of cellular and GPS signals.

The sensors comprise for example a camera a gyroscope an accelerometer a biometric sensor and or the like.

The power management subsystem comprises circuitry operable to manage distribution of power among the various components of the multi purpose device .

The LAN subsystem comprises circuitry operable to perform baseband processing and analog RF processing for transmission and reception of wired optical and or wireless signals e.g. in accordance with Wi Fi Wi Fi Direct Bluetooth Ethernet and or other standards .

The bus adaptor comprises circuitry for interfacing one or more internal data busses of the multi purpose device with an external bus e.g. a Universal Serial Bus for transferring data to from the multi purpose device via a wired connection.

The user interface subsystem comprises circuitry operable to control and relay signals to from a touchscreen hard buttons and or other input devices of the multi purpose device .

The audio processor comprises circuitry to process e.g. digital to analog conversion analog to digital conversion compression decompression encryption decryption resampling etc. audio signals. The audio processor may be operable to receive and or output signals via a connector such as a 3.5 mm stereo and microphone connector.

In block four players log into an online multiplayer game e.g. Game X . As shown in each of the players may be connected to the game via network via a respective console and GPN represented as clouds in .

In block the players roles in the game are assigned. A player s role may correspond for example to which of two or more opposing teams he is on. For illustration an example scenario in which players 1 and 2 are on a first team players 3 and 4 are on a second team and the first team is opposing the second team in the online multiplayer game.

In block based on the player role assignments in block scrambling keys are communicated to and or selected in the players headsets. In the example scenario the result is a headset of player 1 loading and or selecting a first key or key pair a headset of player 2 loading and or selecting the first key or key pair a headset of player 3 loading and or selecting a second key or key pair a headset of player 4 loading and or selecting the second key or key pair .

In an example implementation the server hosting the multiplayer online game may output signal s to the headsets via the respective consoles indicating the role of the various players. In this manner the configuration of headsets may be fully automated without need for the players to take extra actions to configure the scrambling keys of their headsets.

In an example implementation an application running on multi purpose devices associated with the respective players and their headsets may present an interface for selecting each of the players roles in the online multiplayer game. In response to one or more of the players inputting the players respective roles into their devices the multi purpose devices may communicate with one another e.g. via the network to ensure that each player has selected the correct role and then output a signal to their respective headsets to load and or select the appropriate scrambling keys.

In an example implementation scrambling keys themselves or identifiers of scrambling keys may be communicated to the players respective multi purpose devices e.g. via email SMS MMS a push notification and or the like . Each multi purpose device may then load configure either automatically or in response to a user input the associated headset with the received or identified key e.g. via a Bluetooth connection between the headset and multi purpose device .

In an example implementation a player may select a scrambling key via an app running on his her multi purpose device and select which other players should receive the key. In response to these selections the multi purpose device may then load configure the player s headset with the selected key and transmit e.g. via text SMS MMS a push notification and or the like the key or an identifier of the key to the multi purpose device s of the selected player s .

In block gameplay begins and the microphone audio signals from the four players are conveyed into the network where they are combined into a common chat audio signal which is then output to the players via their respective consoles and headsets . An example chat audio stream and the resulting audio in the players headsets are described below with reference to .

In block each of the four players in the example scenario has his her headset in a non scrambling mode. As a result each microphone signal carries unscrambled microphone audio from each of the players headsets to the network where they are combined into the chat signal which is then output to the headsets. Because each headset is a non scrambling mode all the microphone audio is intelligible to all the players. It should be noted that scrambling as used here refers to scrambling of audio in the digital and or analog domain such that the audio becomes unintelligible to a human listener if not descrambled prior to presenting the audio to the listener. Scrambling as used herein does not refer to scrambling that is done in a transmitter to give the data useful engineering properties and that is reversed as a matter of course in the receiver. For distinction this latter type of processing may be referred to as randomization and is often paired with a forward error correction mechanism.

In block Player 1 switches his her headset to scrambling mode to enable a private communication with Player 2. The switch to scrambling mode may be effected by for example pressing one of the buttons on the headset and or via a user interface of a multi purpose device in use by Player 1.

In block Player 1 speaks into the microphone of his her headset the resulting microphone audio signal is scrambled by circuitry of the headset and the scrambled audio is then transmitted e.g. via console in use by Player 1 to one or more servers of the network that are hosting the group chat for the game.

In an example implementation the scrambled audio may be communicated along with a key identifier information that enables a headset receiving the scrambled audio to identify a key needed for descrambling the audio. For example a tone or sequence of tones e.g. near the upper or lower end of the audio band such that it is inaudible or nearly so may be added to the scrambled audio. The tone s e.g. their frequency and or duration may directly identify the descrambling key e.g. where the keys are given unique identifiers and or may provide information e.g. which player s headset sent the audio which player s headset is intended to receive the audio and or which key was used to scramble the audio from which the identity of the key may be extrapolated.

For the headset of Player 2 i.e. a headset in which the necessary key s for descrambling audio from the headset of Player 1 has been loaded selected reception of the audio transmitted in block proceeds via blocks . For the headset of Players 3 and 4 i.e. headsets in which the necessary key s for descrambling audio from the headset of Player 1 have not been loaded selected reception of the audio transmitted in block proceeds via blocks .

In block the scrambled audio is received by headset of Player 2. In block the headset of Player 2 detects that the received audio is scrambled e.g. based on detecting a key identifier and or a begin scrambling indicator that is received along with the scrambled audio and determines that it has been configured loaded with the proper key for decrypting this audio. In block the audio processing circuitry descrambles the received audio and outputs it to Player 2 via the speakers .

In block the scrambled audio is received by headset of Player 3. In block the headset of Player 3 detects that the received audio is scrambled e.g. based on detecting a key identifier and or a begin scrambling indicator that is received along with the scrambled audio and determines that it has not been configured loaded with the proper key for decrypting this audio. In block the audio processing circuitry of the headset of Player 3 mutes the chat audio for the duration of the scrambled audio from Player 1 e.g. for the duration between a begin scrambling indicator and an end scrambling indicator . The muting may prevent Player 3 from having to listen to the unintelligible audio. Game audio may continue to be presented while the chat audio is muted or both chat and game audio may be muted.

Unscrambled burst from Player 1 is output via speakers of all four headsets. Unscrambled burst from Player 2 is output via speakers of all four headsets. Unscrambled burst from Player 3 is output via speakers of all four headsets. Unscrambled burst from Player 4 is output via speakers of all four headsets.

Burst from Player 1 is scrambled by the headset of Player 1. Headsets worn by Players 1 and 2 descramble and output burst via their speakers but headsets worn by Players 3 and 4 cannot descramble burst and therefore mute the chat audio during the burst .

Burst from Player 2 is scrambled by the headset of Player 2. Headsets worn by Players 1 and 2 descramble and output burst via their speakers but headsets worn by Players 3 and 4 cannot descramble burst and therefore mute the chat audio during the burst .

Burst from Player 3 is scrambled by the headset of Player 3. Headsets worn by Players 3 and 4 descramble and output burst via their speakers but headsets worn by Players 1 and 2 cannot descramble burst and therefore mute the chat audio during the burst .

Burst from Player 4 is scrambled by the headset of Player 4. Headsets worn by Players 3 and 4 descramble and output burst via their speakers but headsets worn by Players 1 and 2 cannot descramble burst and therefore mute the chat audio during the burst .

Unscrambled burst from Player 3 is output via speakers of all four headsets. Unscrambled burst from Player 1 is output via speakers of all four headsets.

In an example implementation an electronic device e.g. console a server of network that hosts an online multiplayer game basestation headset or the like may be configurable to operate in a scrambling mode and a non scrambling mode while processing chat audio and microphone audio for a first player participating in an online multiplayer game via a game console e.g. console . While operating in the non scrambling mode the electronic device may be configured to transmit the microphone audio to the game console without scrambling the microphone audio. While operating in the scrambling mode the electronic device may be configured to scramble the microphone audio and transmit the scrambled microphone audio to the game console. The electronic device may be operable to select a scrambling key used to scramble the microphone audio based on a signal received by the electronic device that indicates a role of the player in the online multiplayer game. The role of the player may correspond to which of two or more opposing teams the first player is a member of in the online multiplayer game. The signal may be received over a communication link between the electronic device and the game console e.g. a link comprising links and . The signal may be received over a communication link between the electronic device and a gaming peripheral device e.g. a Bluetooth link . While operating in the scrambling mode the electronic device may transmit a key identifier along with the scrambled microphone audio. The key identifier may enable an electronic device of a second player of the online multiplayer game to determine which descrambling key to use for descrambling the scrambled microphone audio. The electronic device may be operable to determine whether a key for descrambling the chat audio is available to it based on the key identifier. The electronic device may be configured to descramble the chat audio if the key for descrambling the chat audio is available to the electronic device. The electronic device may be configured to mute the chat audio if the key for descrambling the chat audio is not available to the electronic device. The electronic device may be configured to apply a descrambling process to the chat audio from a begin scrambling indicator until an end scrambling indicator if the key for descrambling the chat audio is available to the electronic device. The electronic device may be configured to mute the chat audio from the begin scrambling indicator until the end scrambling indicator if the key for descrambling the chat audio is not available to the electronic device. While operating in the scrambling mode the electronic device may transmit a begin scrambling indicator and an end scrambling indicator along with the scrambled microphone audio. The electronic is operable to toggle between the scrambling mode and the non scrambling mode in response to an actuation e.g. a press of a button e.g. voice command etc. of the electronic device.

The present method and or system may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present methods and or systems may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computing system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computing systems. Any kind of computing system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computing system with a program or other code that when being loaded and executed controls the computing system such that it carries out the methods described herein. Another typical implementation may comprise an application specific integrated circuit or chip. Some implementations may comprise a non transitory machine readable e.g. computer readable medium e.g. FLASH drive optical disk magnetic storage disk or the like having stored thereon one or more lines of code executable by a machine thereby causing the machine to perform processes as described herein.

While the present method and or system has been described with reference to certain implementations it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the present method and or system. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the present disclosure without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the present method and or system not be limited to the particular implementations disclosed but that the present method and or system will include all implementations falling within the scope of the appended claims.

