---

title: Impact distributing mechanism
abstract: An article is provided that includes a core including a plurality of triangular core members. Two or more edges of each triangular core member are each attached to respective edges of other triangular core members in the plurality of triangular core members by respective hinges in a plurality of hinges. Each hinge in the plurality of hinges joins respective edges of a respective pair of substantially adjacent triangular core members in the plurality of triangular core members, is of a length to provide an offset between the pair of triangular core members, has a thickness less than thicknesses of the pair of triangular core members, and is integrally connected to the pair of triangular core members.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09254433&OS=09254433&RS=09254433
owner: Pinwrest Development Group, LLC
number: 09254433
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141016
---
This Application is a continuation and claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. application Ser. No. 14 154 090 filed on Jan. 13 2014 and entitled PROTECTIVE SHIN GUARD which application is a continuation of Ser. No. 13 545 381 filed on Jul. 10 2012 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 627 512 and entitled IMPACT DISTRIBUTING MECHANISM which application is a continuation of Ser. No. 11 057 954 filed Feb. 15 2005 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 220 072 and entitled PROTECTIVE SHIN GUARD each naming Mark D. Dodd as inventor. The disclosures of the prior Applications are considered part of and are incorporated by reference in its entirety in the disclosure of this Application.

The present invention relates generally to protective equipment and in particular to protective guards for extremities such as shins to be worn while engaging in sports activities.

Shin guards are widely used in amateur and professional soccer to protect players lower legs and shins from impact with other players. In soccer since players advance the soccer ball through kicking players are frequently kicked in the shin and lower leg by other players. Without adequate protection the risk of injury is high.

Existing shin guards provide some protection for the shins of soccer players but the guards are typically bulky and uncomfortable. The existing shin guards are typically a single piece of rigid plastic and are secured to the shin and lower leg using straps or special sleeves. While the existing shin guards are manufactured in different sizes obtaining a custom fit is almost impossible and the shin guards often protrude outward from each side of the player s leg. The lack of custom sizing available with existing shin guards makes them less comfortable to wear and the guards could under some circumstances impede the movement of the player. Finally a guard that does not fit properly also fails to provide maximum impact protection to the player.

A need exists therefore for a protective guard that provides a customized fit to a person s leg or other body part. A protective guard is further needed that is easily adjustable to extremities of different sizes and shapes so that a minimum number of sizes can be manufactured. Finally a protective guard is needed that is easy to manufacture and is comfortable to wear during extended periods of exertion.

The problems presented by existing protective guards are solved by the protective guard of the present invention. The protective guard includes an elastomeric sheath having a pocket disposed therein. The protective guard further includes a central core having a plurality of rigid plates. The central core is disposed within the pocket of the elastomeric sheath. The plurality of rigid plates includes a first plate that is joined by at least one hinge to a second plate.

Also in accordance with the principles of the present invention a protective guard having a conformable substrate and a plurality of core members is provided. The plurality of core members are at least partially embedded within the conformable substrate. The core members are arranged such that a first of the core members is rotationally movable about at least one axis relative to a second of the core members.

Also in accordance with the principles of the present invention a protective guard is provided that includes a conformable substrate and a plurality of core members disposed adjacent to a surface of the conformable substrate. The core members are arranged such that a first of the core members is rotationally movable about at least one axis relative to a second of the core members.

Also in accordance with the principles of the present invention a protective guard is provided that includes an elastomeric substrate and a plurality of non elastomeric core members. The non elastomeric core members are at least partially embedded within the elastomeric substrate.

Other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent with reference to the drawings and detailed description that follow.

In the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific preferred embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and it is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical structural mechanical chemical and material changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. To avoid detail not necessary to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention the description may omit certain information known to those skilled in the art. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

As used herein the term elastomer refers to a polymeric or rubber natural or synthetic material that has elongation rates greater than 100 .

The term conformable refers to the ability of a material to be shaped to the contours of a surface without permanently deforming or setting the material. The conformable material could be placed adjacent to a first surface to provide a contour fit to the first surface and then could subsequently be placed adjacent a second surface and similarly provide a contour fit to the second surface.

Referring to a protective guard according to the principles of the present invention includes a conformable substrate and a central core . The central core is connected to or embedded within the conformable substrate to provide impact protection to a body part of a person. The conformable substrate preferably includes a pocket see within the conformable substrate that houses the central core . When the central core is contained within pocket the conformable substrate functions as a sheath and an entry slot may be optionally provided to allow access to pocket thereby allowing the central core to be selectively removed or inserted into the conformable substrate . However it is preferable that the pocket is not accessible by an entry slot thereby creating a sealed space for the conformable substrate . The pocket closely matches the shape of the central core and is preferably formed by molding the conformable substrate around the central core .

The conformable substrate is preferably constructed from an elastomeric material such that the conformable substrate can be easily wrapped around and shaped to the contours of a person s lower leg or shin see . The preferred material for the conformable substrate is Monprene MP 1880 a thermoplastic elastomer manufactured by Teknor Apex Thermoplastic Elastomer Division of Pawtucket R.I. Other suitable materials could include without limitation other thermoplastic elastomers natural rubber polyisoprene styrene butadiene rubber chloroprene rubber polybutadiene nitrile rubber butyl rubber ethylene propylene rubber ethylene propylene diene rubber chlorosulfonated polyethylene polysulfide rubber silicone rubber polyurethane and closed or open cell neoprene or foam.

Referring to the central core includes a plurality of core members . Each core member is preferably joined by at least one hinge to another of the core members such that the core members are capable of rotational movement relative to one another. The rotational movement between two core members typically occurs along an axis that is positioned between the core members. When hinges are used to connect the core members the axis of rotation corresponds to the rotational axis of the hinge. Representative axes of rotation for the central core of are illustrated as axis axis and axis . The ability of the core members to rotationally move relative to one another allows the central core to be conformable to a shin of a person even though the material that forms the core members would not necessarily be conformable if used in a single piece.

Referring more specifically to the core members could be any shape or size. While the preferred shape is the triangular shape of core members a central core is partially shown in having round core members connected by hinges . partially illustrates a central core having a plurality of oval core members connected by hinges . partially illustrates a central core having rectangular core members connected by hinges . Other shapes could include without limitation hexagonal octagonal or free form shapes.

Referring to the core members of protective guard are preferably substantially flat rigid plates constructed from a non elastomeric material. In a preferred embodiment the core members are made from a hard plastic material such as acrylonitrile butadiene styrene ABS styrene polyethylene polypropylene acrylic polyvinyl chloride PVC fluoroplastics nylon acetal polycarbonate polyimide polyamide imide polyphenylene sulfide polyarylates polyethylene terephthalate polybutylene terephthalate polyether ether ketone polysulfone polyether sulfone polyetherimide or polyphenylene oxide. However it should be understood that any rigid material may be used including composites metal or wood. Although a non elastomeric material is preferred the core members could even be formed from an elastomeric material if rotational movement between the core members would allow the elastomeric material to better conform to the shin of a person. Preferably the material used to form the core members and thus the central core is a material that is compatible with the material chosen for the conformable substrate . Since it is preferred to mold the conformable substrate over the central core it is highly desirous to use a central core material to which the conformable substrate will adhere. A coating or adhesive may be applied to the central core prior to the molding process to achieve additional adhesion between the central core and the conformable substrate .

Referring to the central core c of is illustrated in cross section and includes core members connected by hinges . While it is preferred that the core members of the present invention be substantially flat so that an impact force directed to the protective guard does not damage the conformable substrate the core members illustrated in include ridges . The ridges may be capable of absorbing additional energy by flattening in the presence of an impact force. Other alternatives to a substantially flat core member may be provided by a core member that is slightly concave or convex in cross section. The core members could alternatively be fluid filled capsules such as those containing air or gel or the core members could also be a plastic or metal mesh that is hinged together similar to chain mail armor.

Referring again to and also to the hinges that connect the core members could be provided in several different forms. illustrates the preferred hinge which is a living hinge. The living hinge is preferably integrally attached between the core members and is made from the same material as each of the core members . The living hinge may be created by machining or etching the core members from a single sheet of material having a relatively constant thickness. The sheet of material is thinned in any region that will become a hinge. This thinning process to create the hinges also creates the general shape of the core members . Living hinges are a strong way of maintaining a rotational connection between core members . The living hinges allow repeated rotations between core members while maintaining the relative positions of the core members during the process of assembling the central core and the conformable substrate .

Referring to another option for providing hinges is illustrated in reference to a central core having core members and hinges . Hinges are formed by arranging precut core members onto a membrane or other material that includes an adhesive to secure the core members to the membrane . The membrane could be an adhesive tape or other film or alternatively the membrane could be another piece of plastic or elastomer to which the core members are bonded. Membrane could be applied to both sides of the core members or only on one side as shown in .

Although not illustrated mechanical multi part hinges could also be used to connect adjacent core members.

Referring again to certain of the core members are located in an outer perimeter region while other of the core members are located in an inner region . The core members located in the inner region are preferably connected by hinges along each edge of the core member to each adjacent core member . For core members located in the outer perimeter region hinges are only attached to one or two edges of each core member . However regardless of whether a particular core member is disposed within the outer perimeter region or the inner region it is not required that every edge of a core member be connected by a hinge to another core member . In fact hinges are not mandatory. Hinges simply provide a good way to maintain relative positioning of the core members during assembly of the central core and the conformable substrate . If the relative positioning of the core members could be maintained without hinges the fixation of the core members within or to the conformable substrate would allow the desired capability of rotational movement between adjacent core members . Alternatives for positioning the core members are discussed below in reference to the assembly of the central core and the conformable substrate .

Referring to the protective guard preferably includes core members that are completely embedded within the conformable substrate . As mentioned previously a pocket could be provided with an entry slot that allows for insertion of the central core after the conformable substrate is formed. However it is preferred that the central core be molded within the conformable substrate which would automatically form a pocket around the central core . It is preferred that hinges are present between the core members to maintain the relative position of the core members during the molding process. It is possible however that the core members be individually placed during the molding process to eliminate the need for the hinges . After the molding process the relative positions e.g. spacing of the core members would be fixed within the conformable substrate yet the core members would still be capable of rotational movement relative to one another.

Referring to a protective guard having a conformable substrate and a central core is illustrated. The central core includes a plurality of core members connected by hinges . The central core is partially embedded within a pocket of the conformable substrate thereby exposing the core members near a surface of the conformable substrate . The central core may be secured to the conformable substrate by the embedding process or a bonding agent or other adhesive may be used to further secure the central core . As discussed previously in reference to the hinges between core members could be eliminated if the core members were individually placed during the assembly process. Individual core members could be placed during the molding of the conformable substrate or the core members could be bonded within the pocket of the conformable substrate after the molding process is complete. After securing the core members to the conformable substrate the relative positions e.g. spacing of the core members would be fixed yet the core members would still be capable of rotational movement relative to one another.

Referring to a protective guard having a conformable substrate and a central core is illustrated. The central core includes a plurality of core members connected by hinges . The central core is bonded to a surface of the conformable substrate . The central core is preferably secured to the conformable substrate by a bonding agent or adhesive. As discussed previously with reference to the hinges between core members could be eliminated if the core members were individually placed during the bonding process. After securing the core members to the conformable substrate the relative positions e.g. spacing of the core members would be fixed yet the core members would still be capable of rotational movement relative to one another.

In use the protective guard of the present invention provides impact protection for an extremity or other body part of a person. As shown in the protective guard is conformable to the shin and lower leg of a person. The conformable substrate and the central core combine to provide superior impact protection. While the conformable substrate by itself is conformable to a leg or other body part the more rigid characteristics of the material used in the central core would normally not be easily conformable to the person s leg. However by separating the central core into a plurality of core members and by allowing the core members to be rotationally movable relative to one another the central core as a whole is also conformable to the leg of the person. An attachment aperture is provided on each side of the conformable substrate to allow protective guard to be attached to the person s leg with a strap routed through the attachment aperture . An ankle guard may also be provided to wrap around the ankle of the person. The ankle guard could include a central core but preferably is formed solely from the conformable substrate used with protective guard . Similarly the protective guard itself could be formed solely from the conformable substrate and used without the central core. If only the conformable substrate is used the material may be thicker in areas of predicted impact or may be formed from two or more elastomers having different durometers i.e. a multi durometer conformable substrate .

It should be noted that the protective guard of the present invention could be used to protect body parts other than the lower leg of a person including without limitation forearms elbows and knees. The protective guard could also be used to protect body parts of non human animals as well.

It should be apparent from the foregoing that an invention having significant advantages has been provided. While the invention is shown in only a few of its forms it is not just limited but is susceptible to various changes and modifications without departing from the spirit thereof.

