---

title: Method and system for neighbor reporting in a mobile communication network
abstract: A method, neighbor relation maintenance device, and non-transitory computer readable medium for neighbor reporting in a wireless communication network is disclosed. The method comprises categorizing, by a neighbor relation maintenance device, a plurality of Mobile Stations (MSs) into one or more groups. A primary neighbor BS for each group of the one or more groups of MSs is determined. Each MS of each group is instructed to report signal strength measurements between the each MS and the corresponding primary neighbor BS associated with the each group in a first time period. Each MS of each group is instructed to report signal strength measurements between the each MS and each neighbor BS in a predefined neighbor list associated with the each MS in a second time period.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09307459&OS=09307459&RS=09307459
owner: Wipro Limited
number: 09307459
owner_city: Bangalore
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20140423
---
This application claims the benefit of Indian Patent Application Filing Number 1266 CHE 2014 filed on Mar. 11 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to handover of a Mobile Station MS from a serving Base Station BS to a neighbor BS and more particularly to a method and system for neighbor reporting in a wireless communication network.

One of the requirements of mobile telecommunication systems is to provide unbroken connections between Base Stations BSs also called Evolved Node Bs or eNodeBs or eNBs and Mobile Stations MSs or User Equipment UE moving at high speeds. This feature of providing unbroken connections may be accomplished by a serving BS by performing a handover or handoff to another BS. The serving BS decides when to initiate the handover and to which BS the MS needs to be handed over. Typically the serving BS may handover a MS to a neighbouring BS. In order to determine which of many neighbours to handover a MS the serving BS may maintain a neighbour list for a MS comprising a listing of signal strength values between the MS and each of the neighbours accessible to the MS. The MS may regularly report the signal strength between itself and each of the neighbours accessible to the MS to the serving BS.

In a sufficiently large network the list of relevant neighbors for each MS may be large. However there may be a possibility that some of the neighbors cannot qualify as neighbor candidates as the handover to such neighbors may not have happened for a long period of time and is unlikely to happen in the immediate future. Also for some of the neighbors the qualifying potential service level for example RSRP values etc. may be outside acceptable limits. And hence maintaining them as neighbors may not make sense.

Further measurement of qualifying potential service level parameters at a MS is typically a resource intensive battery processing power etc. activity as it is frequently performed at the MS. Performing this activity for a long neighbour list as provided by serving BS may impact operations and performance of the MS. Furthermore maintaining a MS specific neighbor list with multiple entries for each neighbor list at the serving BS may also be time and resource intensive at the serving BS and may impact operations and performance of the BS in a negative way when a large number of UEs are connected to the BS eNB.

In one embodiment a method of neighbor reporting in a mobile communication network is disclosed. The method comprises categorizing by a neighbor relation maintenance device a plurality of Mobile Stations MSs into one or more groups wherein the plurality of MSs are associated with a serving Base Station BS determining by the neighbor relation maintenance device a primary neighbor BS for each group of the one or more groups of MSs instructing each MS of each group to report signal strength measurements between the each MS and the corresponding primary neighbor BS associated with the each group in a first time period and instructing each MS of each group to report signal strength measurements between the each MS and each neighbor BS in a predefined neighbor list associated with the each MS in a second time period. The predefined neighbor list associated with the each MS may include one or more neighbor BSs accessible by the each MS.

In another embodiment a neighbor relation maintenance device for neighbor reporting implemented at a serving Base Station BS is disclosed. The neighbor relation maintenance device comprises a processor and a memory disposed in communication with the processor and storing processor executable instructions the instructions comprising instructions to categorize a plurality of Mobile Stations MSs into one or more groups wherein the plurality of MSs are associated with the serving BS determine a primary neighbor BS for each group of the one or more groups of MSs instruct each MS of each group to report signal strength measurements between the each MS and the corresponding primary neighbor BS associated with the each group in a first time period and instruct each MS of each group to report signal strength measurements between the each MS and each neighbor BS in a predefined neighbor list associated with the each MS in a second time period. The predefined neighbor list associated with the each MS may include one or more neighbor BSs accessible by the each MS.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

Exemplary embodiments are described with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever convenient the same reference numbers are used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. While examples and features of disclosed principles are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the following detailed description be considered as exemplary only with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

An exemplary high level network depicting a mobile communication network architecture in which various embodiments of the invention may function is illustrated in . Network may include but is not limited to cellular networks such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA third generation 3G network and Long Term Evolution LTE network. Mobile communication network may include one or more Base Stations BSs such as BSs and one or more Mobile Stations MSs such as MSs .

At a given point in time a MS may be in wireless communication with a single BS. In other words the MS may be served by a single BS. This BS is typically called the serving BS. The serving BS provides a link between the MS and the wider mobile network. For example in BS may be the serving BS for the MS and the MS . Similarly BS may be the serving BS for the MS . Each BS may be associated with a range wherein the range of a BS corresponds to the area to which the BS can transmit wireless signals. Thus each BS may be the serving BS for a number of MSs lying within the transmitting range of the BS.

When an MS moves from the serving area of one BS to the serving area of another BS a handover or handoff process may be initiated to provide an unbroken connection to the MS. A handover process typically involves transferring a call from a serving BS to one of the neighbor BSs depending on the direction of motion of the MS. For example if MS moves away from serving BS towards BS then BS may handover MS to BS . BS then becomes the serving BS for MS and provides the link between MS and the wider communication network.

In order to determine which neighbor BS to handover a MS to the serving BS maintains a neighbor list of all neighbors accessible to the MS and also the signal strength between the MS and each one of the neighbors accessible to the MS. A neighbor list is maintained by the serving BS for each MS being served by the serving BS. To populate the neighbor list the serving BS may instruct a MS currently being served by the serving BS to periodically report signal strength measurements between itself and each neighbor BS from which it receives a signal. This may be called neighbor reporting. In addition to reporting about its neighbors each MS may also report signal strength between itself and the current serving BS. Neighbor reporting usually involves each MS transmitting a measurement report comprising signal strength measurements between it and neighboring BSs from which the MS receives a signal. For example MS may be able to receive a signal from BS and BS based on the proximity between MS and each of BS and BS and may not receive a signal from BS BS BS and BS . Thus BS and BS may be considered neighbor BSs relative to MS . MS may report the signal strength between MS and each of BS and BS to current serving BS . Serving BS may use the measurement reports provided by MS to determine a potential neighbor to which MS is to be handed over.

The measurement reports provided by a MS to the serving BS may enable the serving BS to determine a direction of motion of the MS and accordingly a potential neighbor to which the MS is to be handed over. For example if MS moves from the serving area of BS towards BS the signal strength measurements between MS and each of BSs and may decrease while at the same time the signal strength measurements between MS and each of BSs and may increase. By analyzing these measurements BS may determine an appropriate neighbor to which the MS can be handed over and accordingly proceed with the handover.

A method of neighbor reporting in a mobile communication network in accordance with some embodiments of the invention will now be explained with reference to . The method involves categorizing by a neighbor relation maintenance device a plurality of Mobile Stations MSs associated with a serving Base Station BS into one or more groups at step . In order to categorize the MSs into one or more groups the neighbor relation maintenance device associated with the serving BS may first instruct all MSs associated with the serving BS to report signal strength measurements between the each MS and each neighbor BS. In other words the serving BS may instruct all MSs to perform a global neighbor reporting. The MSs may then be grouped based on the signal strength measurements such that each MS in a group has the highest relative signal strength with respect to a common neighbor BS as compared to the relative signal strength between any other neighbor BS. Categorizing the MSs into the one or more groups will be explained in further detail in conjunction with .

On determining the groups of MSs the neighbor relation maintenance device may determine a primary neighbor BS for each group at step . The primary neighbor in some embodiments may correspond to the common neighbor BS relative to which each MS in a group of MSs has the greatest signal strength. Now referring to a method of categorizing the MSs into one or more groups will be explained. At step the plurality of MSs associated with a serving BS may be categorized into bins based on the signal strength measurement between each MS and each neighbor. Each bin may be associated with a range having an upper threshold signal strength value and a lower threshold signal threshold value. For example a first bin may be defined having an upper threshold signal strength value 75 dBm and a lower threshold signal strength value 85 dBm. Similarly a second bin a third bin and a fourth bin having ranges 86 dBm to 95 dBm 96 dBm to 105 dBm and 106 dBm to 115 dBm respectively may be defined. In some embodiments a hysteresis value or a tolerance value may be considered when defining the bins. The number of bins and the ranges for each bin may be configurable by the service provider. On creating the various bins the MSs associated with the serving BS may be categorized into one of the bins based on their signal strength with a neighbor BS.

An exemplary mobile communication network is illustrated in to further explain the process of categorizing the plurality of MSs into one or more groups. As shown in a serving BS may serve a plurality of MSs such as MSs . Mobile communication network may further include one or more neighboring BSs such as BS BS and BS . In order to categorize the MSs based on signal strength between the MSs and the various neighbor BSs one or more bins may be created. For example a first bin having a range 75 dBm to 85 dBm a second bin having a range 86 dBm to 95 dBm and a third bin having signal strength range from 96 dBm to 105 dBm may be created. Here the first bin may be associated with the strongest signal strength followed by the second bin followed by the third bin. Once the bins are created the MSs may be categorized into one of these bins based on relative signal strength between the MSs and each neighbor. This may be done based on each measurement report received by the serving BS from the MSs in a predefined time period. Based on the signal strength measurements from successive measurement reports in the predefined time period the MSs may be categorized into the three bins as shown in Table 1 

The entries in the first bin indicate that the signal strength between the MS and the BS is the greatest compared to the signal strength between the MS and other BSs in other bins. Similarly the entries in the third bin indicate the lowest signal strength between an MS and a particular neighbor BS. For example MS may have the strongest relative signal strength with respect to BS and the lowest relative signal strength with respect to BS . Similarly MS may have the strongest relative signal strength with respect to BS and the second strongest relative signal strength with BS .

Referring back to once the MSs are categorized into one or more bins based on their signal strength relative to one or more BSs a count of a number of times each neighbor BS is reported in the each bin by each MS may be determined. In keeping with the above example in the first bin MS reports BS three times in the predefined time period. The count of the number of times each MS reports each neighbor BS is indicated in brackets in Table 2.

On determining the count of the number of times each MS reports each neighbor in a bin an effective count value ECV may be determined for each BS at step . The ECV for a BS may be calculated as ECV for BS count for each MS reporting BS number of MSs reporting BS Thus ECV for BS may be calculated as ECV for BS422 3 2 2 2 10 Similarly the ECV for each BS in each bin may be calculated as below 

On determining the effective count value for each BS in a bin the MSs may be grouped based on a common neighbor starting from the BS having the highest ECV and moving in decreasing order of ECV at step . In the ongoing example starting from the BS that has the highest ECV and going in decreasing order of ECV the associated MSs may be grouped. Since BS has the highest ECV in the first bin in Table 3 the MSs associated with BS may be grouped together. Thus MS and MS may form a group. Other groupings are indicated in Table 4 below.

The common neighbor BS for a group may be considered the primary neighbor BS for the group subject to the condition that the common BS has the greatest signal strength relative to each MS in the group. This can be achieved by discarding any MS from a group if that MS has already been included in a group in a higher signal strength bin or has been associated with a neighbor BS having a higher effective count value within the same bin. Following through with the example the primary neighbor BS and the associated group of MSs may be identified as below 

In some embodiments if a neighbor BS is only reported by a single MS then the priority of the MS and the signal strength between the MS and the serving BS may be considered to determine if a group comprising the single MS is to be created. If the priority or Service Level Agreement SLA associated with the MS is high then the MS may be considered a group in itself. Also if the signal strength between the MS and the serving BS is weak the neighbor BS may be considered the primary neighbor for the MS. However if the priority of the MS is low or the signal strength between the MS and the serving BS is high then no primary neighbor may be identified for the MS.

Referring back to on determining a primary neighbor for each group of MSs the neighbor relation maintenance device may instruct each MS of each group at step to report signal strength measurements between it and the corresponding primary neighbor BS associated with the each group in a first time period. Thus MS and MS from Table 5 may be instructed to only report on BS in a first time period. Thereafter at step the neighbor relation maintenance device may instruct each MS of each group to report signal strength measurements between the each MS and each neighbor BS in a predefined neighbor list associated with the each MS in a second time period. In other words each MS may be instructed to perform global neighbor reporting after the predefined first time period expires. The global neighbor reporting may be performed by each MS for a duration equal to the second time period. The first and second time periods may be predefined or may be dynamically determined. For example the first time period may initially be predefined to be 10 minutes. During this time window the MSs may be instructed to only report signal measurements between themselves and their primary neighbor. After the expiry of 10 minutes the MSs may be instructed to perform global neighbor reporting using the default neighbor list as explained in conjunction with . Thus the MSs may alternate between reporting their primary neighbors and their global neighbors. On receiving measurements reports from the MSs when a global neighbor reporting is performed by the MSs the neighbor relation maintenance device may again determine a primary neighbor for each MS as described earlier. Thus a primary neighbor may be determined for each MS after a global neighbor reporting is performed by a MS. If from successive measurement reports a MS reports the same primary neighbor then the MS may be assumed to be stationary. In this case the first time period wherein the MS only reports the primary neighbor may be dynamically increased. On the other hand if it is determined that a MS is constantly moving at a high speed the second time period when the MS performs a global neighbor reporting may be increased. In some embodiments if during the first time period the signal strength between the MS and the primary neighbor BS deteriorates by a certain predefined degree then the first time period for the MS may be dynamically changed such that the MS performs a global neighbor reporting immediately.

On determining the groups of MSs instructions executed by processor may determine a primary neighbor BS for each group. The primary neighbor in some embodiments may correspond to the common neighbor BS relative to which each MS in a group of MSs has the greatest signal strength. The process of determining the primary neighbor is explained in detail in conjunction with . The instructions may further include instructions to instruct each MS of each group to report signal strength measurements between the each MS and the corresponding primary neighbor BS associated with the each group in a first time period. On expiry of the first time period processor may execute further instructions to instruct each MS of each group to report signal strength measurements between the each MS and each neighbor BS in a predefined neighbor list associated with the each MS in a second time period as explained with conjunction with .

Since the MSs only report on the primary neighbor BS during the first time period the battery drain associated with the MSs may be minimized. Further by reducing the number of entries to be maintained by the BS for each MS the operation and performance of the BS may be improved.

Processor may be disposed in communication with one or more input output I O devices via I O interface . The I O interface may employ communication protocols methods such as without limitation audio analog digital monoaural RCA stereo IEEE 1394 serial bus universal serial bus USB infrared PS 2 BNC coaxial component composite digital visual interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RF antennas S Video VGA IEEE 802.n b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax or the like etc.

Using the I O interface the computer system may communicate with one or more I O devices. For example the input device may be an antenna keyboard mouse joystick infrared remote control camera card reader fax machine dongle biometric reader microphone touch screen touchpad trackball sensor e.g. accelerometer light sensor GPS gyroscope proximity sensor or the like stylus scanner storage device transceiver video device source visors etc. Output device may be a printer fax machine video display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED plasma or the like audio speaker etc. In some embodiments a transceiver may be disposed in connection with the processor . The transceiver may facilitate various types of wireless transmission or reception. For example the transceiver may include an antenna operatively connected to a transceiver chip e.g. Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 or the like providing IEEE 802.11a b g n Bluetooth FM global positioning system GPS 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications etc.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with a communication network via a network interface . The network interface may communicate with the communication network . The network interface may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP token ring IEEE 802.11a b g n x etc. The communication network may include without limitation a direct interconnection local area network LAN wide area network WAN wireless network e.g. using Wireless Application Protocol the Internet etc. Using the network interface and the communication network the computer system may communicate with devices and . These devices may include without limitation personal computer s server s fax machines printers scanners various mobile devices such as cellular telephones smartphones e.g. Apple iPhone Blackberry Android based phones etc. tablet computers eBook readers Amazon Kindle Nook etc. laptop computers notebooks gaming consoles Microsoft Xbox Nintendo DS Sony PlayStation etc. or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may itself embody one or more of these devices.

In some embodiments the processor may be disposed in communication with one or more memory devices e.g. RAM ROM etc. via a storage interface . The storage interface may connect to memory devices including without limitation memory drives removable disc drives etc. employing connection protocols such as serial advanced technology attachment SATA integrated drive electronics IDE IEEE 1394 universal serial bus USB fiber channel small computer systems interface SCSI etc. The memory drives may further include a drum magnetic disc drive magneto optical drive optical drive redundant array of independent discs RAID solid state memory devices solid state drives etc.

The memory devices may store a collection of program or database components including without limitation an operating system user interface application web browser mail server mail client user application data e.g. any data variables or data records discussed in this disclosure etc. The operating system may facilitate resource management and operation of the computer system . Examples of operating systems include without limitation Apple Macintosh OS X Unix Unix like system distributions e.g. Berkeley Software Distribution BSD FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD etc. Linux distributions e.g. Red Hat Ubuntu Kubuntu etc. IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows XP Vista 7 8 etc. Apple iOS Google Android Blackberry OS or the like. User interface may facilitate display execution interaction manipulation or operation of program components through textual or graphical facilities. For example user interfaces may provide computer interaction interface elements on a display system operatively connected to the computer system such as cursors icons check boxes menus scrollers windows widgets etc. Graphical user interfaces GUIs may be employed including without limitation Apple Macintosh operating systems Aqua IBM OS 2 Microsoft Windows e.g. Aero Metro etc. Unix X Windows web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX Java Javascript AJAX HTML Adobe Flash etc. or the like.

In some embodiments the computer system may implement a web browser stored program component. The web browser may be a hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer Google Chrome Mozilla Firefox Apple Safari etc. Secure web browsing may be provided using HTTPS secure hypertext transport protocol secure sockets layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS etc. Web browsers may utilize facilities such as AJAX DHTML Adobe Flash JavaScript Java application programming interfaces APIs etc. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail server stored program component. The mail server may be an Internet mail server such as Microsoft Exchange or the like. The mail server may utilize facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI C C Microsoft .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP Python WebObjects etc. The mail server may utilize communication protocols such as internet message access protocol IMAP messaging application programming interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP or the like. In some embodiments the computer system may implement a mail client stored program component. The mail client may be a mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Mozilla Thunderbird etc.

In some embodiments computer system may store user application data such as the data variables records etc. as described in this disclosure. Such databases may be implemented as fault tolerant relational scalable secure databases such as Oracle or Sybase. Alternatively such databases may be implemented using standardized data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table or as object oriented databases e.g. using ObjectStore Poet Zope etc. . Such databases may be consolidated or distributed sometimes among the various computer systems discussed above in this disclosure. It is to be understood that the structure and operation of the any computer or database component may be combined consolidated or distributed in any working combination.

The specification has described a method and system for neighbor reporting in a mobile communication network. The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of illustration and not limitation. Further the boundaries of the functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. Alternatives including equivalents extensions variations deviations etc. of those described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments.

Furthermore one or more non transitory computer readable storage media may be utilized in implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A non transitory computer readable storage medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a processor may be stored. Thus a non transitory computer readable storage medium may store instructions for execution by one or more processors including instructions for causing the processor s to perform steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term non transitory computer readable medium should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and transient signals i.e. be non transitory. Examples include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM volatile memory nonvolatile memory hard drives CD ROMs DVDs flash drives disks and any other known physical storage media.

It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.

