---

title: Techniques for call-based user verification
abstract: Techniques for call-based user verification are described. In one embodiment, for example, an apparatus may comprise a processor circuit and a storage component. The apparatus may further comprise a session component, an identification (ID) component, a mapping component, and a verification component. The session component may be operative on the processor circuit and configured to receive session data from a client device and store the session data in the storage component. The ID component may be operative on the processor circuit and configured to request ID data from a server, receive ID data from the server, and send the ID data to the client device. The mapping component may be operative on the processor circuit and configured to map the session data with the ID data. The verification component may be operative on the processor circuit and configured to receive a confirmation from the client device, request verification from the server, and upon receiving verification from the server, verify the client device. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09461998&OS=09461998&RS=09461998
owner: FACEBOOK, INC.
number: 09461998
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141031
---
The sign up process for online services may require verification of a user or device based upon information such as a phone number or email address. Such verification may be used to prevent unwanted spam fraud or other abuses of an online service. Verification of users may be difficult using mobile devices which may have limited or expensive connectivity to servers required to perform verification. Further some mobile devices may have limited user interfaces making it difficult for users to enter the information required to perform verification. For these reasons especially in some developing areas of the world where connectivity and mobile devices are less advanced the step of verification sometimes dissuades users from completing a sign up process for an online service which is disadvantageous for the user and for the online service. Thus a need exists for a streamlined verification process that users of mobile devices may use to perform verification during the sign up process for an online service.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some novel embodiments described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview and it is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope thereof. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various embodiments are direct to techniques for call based user verification. In one embodiment for example an apparatus may comprise a processor circuit and a storage component. The apparatus may further comprise a session component an identification ID component a mapping component and a verification component. The session component may be operative on the processor circuit and configured to receive session data from a client device and store the session data in the storage component. The ID component may be operative on the processor circuit and configured to request ID data from a server receive ID data from the server and send the ID data to the client device. The mapping component may be operative on the processor circuit and configured to map the session data with the ID data. The verification component may be operative on the processor circuit and configured to receive a confirmation from the client device request verification from the server and upon receiving verification from the server verify the client device. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of the various ways in which the principles disclosed herein can be practiced and all aspects and equivalents thereof are intended to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Various embodiments are direct to techniques for call based user verification. In one embodiment for example an apparatus may comprise a processor circuit and a storage component. The apparatus may further comprise a session component an identification ID component a mapping component and a verification component. The session component may be operative on the processor circuit and configured to receive session data from a client device and store the session data in the storage component. The ID component may be operative on the processor circuit and configured to request ID data from a server receive ID data from the server and send the ID data to the client device. The mapping component may be operative on the processor circuit and configured to map the session data with the ID data. The verification component may be operative on the processor circuit and configured to receive a confirmation from the client device request verification from the server and upon receiving verification from the server verify the client device. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In some embodiments ID data may include a direct inward dial DID telephone number that may be used by the client device to communicate with a server. When the DID telephone number is contacted by the client device within a defined time period a server associated with the DID telephone number may verify that the client device has made such contact to another server. In various embodiments other verification techniques may be made to provide further security. For example verification from the server may be received after an originating telephone number associated with the client device is received in a communication and further matched with a carrier associated with the communication between the client device and the server. In this manner spoofing or faking communications may be prevented and unwanted fraud may be avoided by an online service.

Since DID telephone numbers may be finite for a particular region reusing DID telephone numbers may be desirable. To achieve reusability of DID telephone numbers ID data including a DID telephone number may expire after a defined time period and may be reused with a new client device after expiration of the defined time period. In some embodiments information about network connectivity whether cellular or data may be used to dynamically adjust the defined time period for a client device to utilize ID data. For example when it is determined that voice or data connectivity is slow or intermittent a defined time period may be increased to give the client device ample opportunity to utilize ID data. When voice or data connectivity is determined to be working properly a defined time period may be decreased which may provide the opportunity to reuse ID data more quickly.

Connectivity charges such as voice call data or messaging charges may be important to users of client devices such as mobile phones. For example connectivity charges in developing countries may be significant to users and may deter users from providing information necessary to perform verification during the sign up process for an online service. Accordingly in some embodiments a communication from a client device using ID data may be disconnected by a server prior to the communication incurring a communication charge such as a voice call data or messaging charge from a mobile carrier. For example a telephone call may not incur a charge unless the connection has been established for a certain period of time or unless a connection has successfully been made. Thus a server contacted using ID data may determine that a connection attempt has been made without completing the connection which may avoid fees being incurred.

Reference is now made to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the novel embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof. The intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the claimed subject matter.

In an embodiment each of client devices may comprise without limitation a client device a personal digital assistant a mobile computing device a smart phone a cellular telephone a handset a one way pager a two way pager a messaging device a computer a personal computer PC a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a handheld computer a tablet computer or a wearable computing device such as a smart watch. Server devices and may comprise without limitation a server a server array or server farm a web server a network server an Internet server a work station a mini computer a mainframe computer a supercomputer a network appliance a web appliance multiprocessor systems processor based systems or any combination thereof.

In various embodiments client devices server device and server device may comprise or implement multiple components or modules. As used herein the terms component and module are intended to refer to computer related entities comprising either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component and or module can be implemented as a process running on a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical and or magnetic storage medium an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component and or module. One or more components and or modules can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component and or module can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers as desired for a given implementation. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The various devices within system and components and or modules within a device of system may be communicatively coupled via various types of communications media as indicated by various lines or arrows. The devices components and or modules may coordinate operations between each other. The coordination may involve the uni directional or bi directional exchange of information. For instance the devices components and or modules may communicate information in the form of signals communicated over the communications media. The information can be implemented as signals allocated to various signal lines. In such allocations each message is a signal. Further embodiments however may alternatively employ data messages. Such data messages may be sent across various connections. Exemplary connections within a device include parallel interfaces serial interfaces and bus interfaces. Exemplary connections between devices may comprise network connections over a wired or wireless communications network.

In various embodiments client devices server and server of the system may be organized as a distributed system. A distributed system typically comprises multiple autonomous computers that communicate through a computer network. The computers may interact with each other in order to achieve a common goal such as solving computational problems. For example a computational problem may be divided into many tasks each of which is solved by one computer. A computer program that runs in a distributed system is called a distributed program and distributed programming is the process of writing such programs. Examples of a distributed system may include without limitation a client server architecture a 3 tier architecture an N tier architecture a tightly coupled or clustered architecture a peer to peer architecture a master slave architecture a shared database architecture and other types of distributed systems. It is worthy to note that although some embodiments may utilize a distributed system when describing various enhanced techniques for data retrieval it may be appreciated that the enhanced techniques for data retrieval may be implemented by a single computing device as well. While server and server are depicted as separate devices it can be appreciated that the components of each device may be combined into a single server device in some embodiments. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

Each client device may include a memory and processor and may include one or more storage and processing components in some cases. In an embodiment each client device may include one or more applications which may include but are not limited to native mobile applications web applications desktop software applications or any combination thereof. Examples of applications may include social networking applications newsreader applications photography applications video applications media applications search applications games e reading applications or the like. Applications may include sign up processes that require verification and may communicate over network interfaces and with server and server to perform verification according to one or more techniques described herein.

Server may include memory component and processor component which each may comprise one more of the memory component and processor components described herein. In some embodiments server may include session component which may be stored on memory component and operative on processor component to perform session operations. In an example session component may be configured to receive session data from one or more of client devices . Received session data may be stored by session component in memory . Received session data may be stored in association with a user or client device in a database. Session data may include but is not limited to data from server or client side web sessions implemented using one or more known communication session protocols. In some examples a session cookie such as an HTTP cookie web cookie or browser cookie may be stored on a client device and may be used to store session data such as a session ID user preferences timing information or security information. Session data stored within a cookie of a client device may be shared with session component via network interface for example.

Storing and exchanging session data between one or more of client devices and session component may be used to maintain session continuity during the sign up process for an application or service. For example verification of a user or client device may be required during the sign up process. The use of session data such as a unique session ID stored in a session cookie may be used to continue a session between a client device and server after a verification process is performed between a client device and server as described in detail below.

In some embodiments server may include identification ID component which may be stored on memory component and operative on processor component to perform identification operations. Identification operations may include requesting ID data from a server receiving ID data from the server and sending the ID data to a client device. In an example ID component may be configured to request ID data from server via network interface . Such a request may be made using an application programming interface API call between server and server for example. In response generation component of server may generate ID data from database component as discussed below and return ID data to server . ID component may then map the received ID data with a client device and send the ID data to the client device . In some embodiments ID data may include a DID telephone number which may be mapped and shared with a client device . In this manner a client device may utilize received ID data to contact server via network interface . Of course it can be appreciated that ID data may include data other than a DID telephone number such as an IP address unique identifier or other data that may be used to identify a client device when contacting server .

In various embodiments server may include mapping component which may be stored on memory component and operative on processor component to perform mapping operations. Mapping operations may include the association of session data with ID data which may be associated in a database or other data structure stored in memory or other memory component of server . During mapping mapping component may associate a client device with session data and ID data. In this manner verification as discussed below may be made as to whether a particular client device has utilized ID data to contact server within a defined time period.

Server may further include verification component which may be stored on memory component and operative on processor component to perform verification operations. Verification operations may include receiving a confirmation from the client device requesting verification from a server and upon receiving verification from the server verifying the client device based upon the mapped session data and ID data. In an embodiment a client device after receiving ID data may contact server during a sign up process and after contacting server the client device may confirm to verification component of server that contact with server has been made. Upon receiving such confirmation verification component may contact verification component of server via network interface and request based upon mapped session data and ID data associated with the client device confirmation that ID data was used by a client device to contact server .

While some examples described herein describe verification of a client device during the sign up process of an online service the verification techniques described may be used in many other situations in which streamlined verification may be desired. For example for security reasons users may be logged out of online accounts due to suspicious activity or periodically. Rather than requiring users to re enter a username and password the verification techniques described herein may provide a faster and more convenient alternative for verifying a user. In addition two factor authentication may take advantage of the described verification techniques. For example most two factor authentication processes currently require a username and password in a first stage which triggers a notification using SMS messaging or other messaging with a PIN code that must be entered in a second stage to gain access to an account. It may not be desirable to use SMS messaging in some regions due to the communication charges involved thus the verification techniques described herein which may avoid incurring communications charges may be used. Further the verification techniques described herein avoid the tedious step of entering a code from an SMS message in the second stage. Instead after a username and password have been entered a user may simply press a Free Call user interface element to verify for free that the user is in possession of a verified client device.

In some embodiments the techniques described herein may be used to verify users within advertising campaigns. In an example users may be served advertisements within applications websites media content or while otherwise using a device. Verification techniques described herein may be used when a user selects an advertisement which may trigger the sending of a communication to a server. The communication may be disconnected by the server prior to the communication incurring a communication charge such as a voice call data or messaging charge from a mobile carrier. For example a telephone call may not incur a charge unless the connection has been established for a certain period of time or unless a connection has successfully been made. Thus a contacted server may determine that a connection attempt has been made without completing the connection which may avoid fees being incurred. The contacted server may store various information about the advertisement selection such as ID data for a user. In response to selecting the advertisement which may offer a reward for such a selection the server may deliver content to a user such as media audio video etc. sports scores stock information messages from celebrities ringtones brand messages from an advertiser game tokens or other content deemed valuable to the user. In an example the content delivered to the user may be sent in a manner that does not incur a fee for the user or if a fee is required the fee may be subsidized in whole or in part by an advertiser.

As previously discussed it may be desirable to reuse ID data such as when a finite number of telephone numbers are available for a region. Thus a client device may be required to use received ID data to contact server within a defined time period after ID data was provided to the client device . When server is contacted using ID data such as a DID telephone number for example within a defined time period verification component of server may verify to verification component of server that a client device has made such contact. In various embodiments other verification techniques may be made to provide further security. For example verification from a server may be received after an originating telephone number associated with the client device is received in a communication and further matched with a carrier associated with the communication between the client device and the server. In this manner spoofing or faking communications may be prevented and unwanted fraud may be avoided by an online service.

In various embodiments system may include server which may include memory component and processor component which each may comprise one more of the memory component and processor components described herein. Server may include database component which may be utilized to store ID data that may be assigned to one or more client devices upon request from server as discussed above. For example database component may store a series of DID telephone numbers or other forms of ID data that may be used to verify client devices during the sign up process for an application or service.

In some embodiments server may include generation component which may be stored on memory component and operative on processor component to perform generation operations. Upon receipt of a request for ID data from ID component generation component may retrieve ID data from database component . Since some ID data such as DID telephone numbers may be finite reusing ID data may be desirable. To achieve reusability of DID telephone numbers for example a DID telephone number may be marked by generation component as used in database component and set to expire after a defined time period which may be associated with a used DID telephone number in database component . Thus ID data may be marked as available and reused with a new client device after expiration of the defined time period.

In various embodiments server may include verification component which may be stored on memory component and operative on processor component to perform verification operations. Verification operations may include receiving a request from another verification component such as verification component to confirm that certain ID data was utilized to communicate with server . In response to such a request verification component may communicate a verification message indicating that a certain ID data was utilized to communicate with server . Further verification component may be configured to provide verification when certain ID data is used within a defined time period such as 60 seconds after ID data has been provided by generation component . In some embodiments information about network connectivity whether cellular or data may be used to dynamically adjust the defined time period for a client device to utilize ID data. For example when it is determined that voice or data connectivity is slow or intermittent a defined time period may be increased to give the client device ample opportunity to utilize ID data. When voice or data connectivity is determined to be working properly a defined time period may be decreased which may provide the opportunity to reuse ID data more quickly.

In some embodiments verification component may be configured to avoid incurring communication costs for client devices . Connectivity charges such as voice call data or messaging charges may be important to users of client devices. For example connectivity charges in developing countries may be significant to users and may deter users from providing information necessary to perform verification. Accordingly in some embodiments verification component may be configured to disconnect a communication from a client device using ID data prior to the communication incurring a communication charge such as a voice call data or messaging charge from a mobile carrier. For example a telephone call may not incur a charge unless the connection has been established for a certain period of time or unless a connection has successfully been made. Thus when server is contacted using ID data verification component may determine that a connection attempt has been made without completing the connection which may avoid fees being incurred. In an example when receiving a phone call the phone call and calling number may be recorded and the call may be declined which in some wireless carrier schemes may avoid incurring a communication charge.

Message may include session data from a client device . As described above session data may be received by a server from a client device and stored in a memory component. Received session data may be stored in association with a user or client device in a database for example. Session data may include but is not limited to data from server or client side web sessions implemented using one or more known communication session protocols. In some examples a session cookie such as an HTTP cookie web cookie or browser cookie may be stored on a client device and may be used to store session data such as a session ID user preferences timing information or security information.

Upon receipt of session data at message server may send message to server requesting ID data. As previously described in some embodiments server may include an ID component which may use an API to request ID data from server . In an example an ID component of server may be configured to request ID data from server via a network interface as described herein.

In response to message server may send message containing a request ID data such as a DID telephone number. A generation component of server may generate ID data from database component as discussed above and return ID data to server using message . Upon receipt of message server may map the received ID data with client device using a mapping component.

In some embodiments message including ID data may be sent from server to client device . As previously described ID data may include a DID telephone number and may be used by client device to perform one or more verification functions with server .

In an embodiment message may be sent from client device to server . Message may utilize ID data that was previously received at client device from server . In one example message may use a DID telephone number to establish a communication with server . Upon receiving message a verification component of server may record that a certain ID data such as a DID telephone number was used within a defined period of time. Further the verification component of server may be configured to disconnect the communication from client device prior to the communication incurring a communication charge such as a voice call data or messaging charge from a mobile carrier. For example a telephone call may not incur a charge unless the connection has been established for a certain period of time or unless a connection has successfully been made. Thus when server is contacted using ID data a verification component may determine that a connection attempt has been made without completing the connection which may avoid fees being incurred.

Once message has completed client device may send a confirmation message to server indicating that ID data was used in message to contact server . In one embodiment a user of client device may be presented with a confirmation user interface element that may initiate message when pressed. In other embodiments upon detection of the end of message which may be a telephone call client device may automatically send message to server confirming that a communication to server was made and has ended.

A verification component of server may send message to a verification component of server to verify whether a certain ID data associated with client device has been used within a defined period of time. For example when message was sent within a defined period of time such as 60 seconds server may send message in response to message indicating that ID data was used within the defined time period. Server may use mapped data as described above to determine that client device which may be associated with certain ID data is verified. If so a confirmation message may be sent from server to client device indicating that client device has been verified and a sign up process is complete or may proceed.

At screen an application may present a user with options to log in using email or phone information and a password. In addition for new users or users wishing to create a new account an option may be presented to sign up. In addition to a traditional sign up process a Sign up with free call option may be presented which is illustrated as a shaded user interface element in screen . The shaded Sign up with free call option may initiate one or more of the call based verification techniques described herein.

At screen a user may be presented with a Call option to verify the mobile number of a client device during the sign up process. In an embodiment the shaded Call user interface element may initiate a phone call using the mobile application or may open another application that is configured to make phone calls. Further the shaded Call user interface element may be associated with ID data received at a client device after the Sign up with free call user interface element was selected. Also illustrated within screen is a defined time period of 60 seconds however a longer or shorter time period may be used. The defined time period may inform the user that a call must be placed by selecting the shaded Call user interface element within the displayed time period to complete verification.

Upon selection of the shaded Call user interface element a phone application may be launched as illustrated in screen . A call may be made using the phone application using ID data associated with the shaded Call user interface element from screen . As illustrated within screen a call is in progress to a phone number which may be a DID phone number received by a client device as described herein.

As set forth above a phone call may be disconnected prior to a client device incurring a communication charge. Upon disconnection of a call by a remote server a user may be returned to screen and may be prompted to choose the shaded Next button to confirm that the call has been completed. As described above selection of the shaded Next button may confirm to a remote server that a call has been made and further verification procedures may be performed.

At screen upon successful completion of one or more verification techniques described herein a user interface may be presented informing a user that a mobile number associated with a client device has been confirmed. A user may be presented with prompts to enter further information to establish an account with an application or service. While certain information such as name gender and a password are illustrated in screen it can be appreciated that other information may be requested. Once the requested information has been entered the shaded Sign up button may be selected which leads to a confirmation screen welcoming the verified user to the application or service.

Operations for the above described embodiments may be further described with reference to one or more logic flows. It may be appreciated that the representative logic flows do not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented or in any particular order unless otherwise indicated. Moreover various activities described with respect to the logic flows can be executed in serial or parallel fashion. The logic flows may be implemented using one or more hardware elements and or software elements of the described embodiments or alternative elements as desired for a given set of design and performance constraints. For example the logic flows may be implemented as logic e.g. computer program instructions for execution by a logic device e.g. a general purpose or specific purpose computer . For example a logic flow may be implemented by a processor component executing instructions stored on an article of manufacture such as a storage medium. A storage medium may comprise any non transitory computer readable medium or machine readable medium such as an optical magnetic or semiconductor storage. The storage medium may store various types of computer executable instructions such as instructions to implement one or more disclosed logic flows. Examples of a computer readable or machine readable storage medium may include any tangible media capable of storing electronic data including volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer executable instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code object oriented code visual code and the like. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

At a first server may receive session data from a client device. As described above session data may be received by the first server from a client device and stored in a memory component. Received session data may be stored at in association with a user or client device in a database for example. Session data may include but is not limited to data from server or client side web sessions implemented using one or more known communication session protocols. In some examples a session cookie such as an HTTP cookie web cookie or browser cookie may be stored on a client device and may be used to store session data such as a session ID user preferences timing information or security information.

At upon receipt of session data the first server may request ID data from a second server. In some embodiments an API may be used for such a request. In response the second server may send ID data such as a DID telephone number and the ID data may be received by the first server at . Of course other ID data may be used as described herein.

At a mapping component of the first server may perform mapping operations including the association of ID data with session data which may be associated in a database or other data structure stored in a memory component. In this manner verification as discussed herein may be made as to whether a particular client device has utilized ID data to contact the second server during a particular verification session.

At ID data may be sent to a client device such that the ID data may be used for one or more of the verification techniques described herein.

At a confirmation may be received at a first server from a client device. In an example a client device may have called a second server using a DID telephone number as described above. Once the call has been disconnected by the second server a user of a client device or the client device automatically may initiate a confirmation message to the first server indicating that the call has been completed. Again it can be appreciated that other types of ID data may be used including but not limited to unique identifiers IP addresses or other information that may be used to identify a client device.

At the first server upon receiving confirmation from a client device may request verification from the second server. For example a verification component of the first server may send a request to a verification component of the second server to verify whether a certain ID data associated with a client device has been used within a defined period of time. If certain ID data has been used within the defined period of time the second server may provide verification to the first server at .

At the first server upon receiving verification that certain ID data was used within the defined period of time may use mapped data as described above to determine that a client device which may be associated with the certain ID data is verified. If so a confirmation message may be sent from the first server to a client device indicating that the client device has been verified and a sign up process is complete or may proceed.

The device may comprise any electronic device capable of receiving processing and sending information for the web services system . Examples of an electronic device may include without limitation a client device a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile computing device a smart phone a cellular telephone ebook readers a messaging device a computer a personal computer PC a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a netbook computer a handheld computer a tablet computer a server a server array or server farm a web server a network server an Internet server a work station a network appliance a web appliance a distributed computing system multiprocessor systems processor based systems consumer electronics programmable consumer electronics game devices television set top box wireless access point base station subscriber station mobile subscriber center radio network controller router hub gateway bridge switch machine or combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The device may execute processing operations or logic for the web services system using a processing component . The processing component may comprise various hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include devices logic devices components processors microprocessors circuits processor circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA memory units logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs software development programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

The device may execute communications operations or logic for the web services system using communications component . The communications component may implement any well known communications techniques and protocols such as techniques suitable for use with packet switched networks e.g. public networks such as the Internet private networks such as an enterprise intranet and so forth circuit switched networks e.g. the public switched telephone network or a combination of packet switched networks and circuit switched networks with suitable gateways and translators . The communications component may include various types of standard communication elements such as one or more communications interfaces network interfaces network interface cards NIC radios wireless transmitters receivers transceivers wired and or wireless communication media physical connectors and so forth. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired communications media and wireless communications media. Examples of wired communications media may include a wire cable metal leads printed circuit boards PCB backplanes switch fabrics semiconductor material twisted pair wire co axial cable fiber optics a propagated signal and so forth. Examples of wireless communications media may include acoustic radio frequency RF spectrum infrared and other wireless media.

The device may communicate with other devices over a communications media respectively using communications signals respectively via the communications component . The devices may be internal or external to the device as desired for a given implementation.

For example device may correspond to a client device such as a phone used by a user. Signals sent over media may therefore comprise communication between the phone and the web services system in which the phone transmits a request and receives a web page in response.

Device may correspond to a second user device used by a different user from the first user described above. In one embodiment device may submit information to the web services system using signals sent over media to construct an invitation to the first user to join the services offered by web services system . For example if web services system comprises a social networking service the information sent as signals may include a name and contact information for the first user the contact information including phone number or other information used later by the web services system to recognize an incoming request from the user. In other embodiments device may correspond to a device used by a different user that is a friend of the first user on a social networking service the signals including status information news images or other social networking information that is eventually transmitted to device for viewing by the first user as part of the social networking functionality of the web services system .

The distributed system may comprise a client device and a server device . In general the client device and the server device may be the same or similar to device as described with reference to . For instance the client device and the server device may each comprise a processing component and a communications component which are the same or similar to the processing component and the communications component respectively as described with reference to . In another example the devices and may communicate over a communications media using media via signals .

The client device may comprise or employ one or more client programs that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the client device may implement some steps described with respect client devices described in the preceding figures.

The server device may comprise or employ one or more server programs that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the server device may implement some steps described with respect to server devices described in the preceding figures

As used in this application the terms system and component are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution examples of which are provided by the exemplary computing architecture . For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical and or magnetic storage medium an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Further components may be communicatively coupled to each other by various types of communications media to coordinate operations. The coordination may involve the uni directional or bi directional exchange of information. For instance the components may communicate information in the form of signals communicated over the communications media. The information can be implemented as signals allocated to various signal lines. In such allocations each message is a signal. Further embodiments however may alternatively employ data messages. Such data messages may be sent across various connections. Exemplary connections include parallel interfaces serial interfaces and bus interfaces.

The computing architecture includes various common computing elements such as one or more processors multi core processors co processors memory units chipsets controllers peripherals interfaces oscillators timing devices video cards audio cards multimedia input output I O components power supplies and so forth. The embodiments however are not limited to implementation by the computing architecture .

As shown in the computing architecture comprises a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors including without limitation an AMD Athlon Duron and Opteron processors ARM application embedded and secure processors IBM and Motorola DragonBall and PowerPC processors IBM and Sony Cell processors Intel Celeron Core 2 Duo Itanium Pentium Xeon and XScale processors and similar processors. Dual microprocessors multi core processors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus provides an interface for system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. Interface adapters may connect to the system bus via a slot architecture. Example slot architectures may include without limitation Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and the like.

The computing architecture may comprise or implement various articles of manufacture. An article of manufacture may comprise a computer readable storage medium to store logic. Examples of a computer readable storage medium may include any tangible media capable of storing electronic data including volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of logic may include executable computer program instructions implemented using any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code object oriented code visual code and the like. Embodiments may also be at least partly implemented as instructions contained in or on a non transitory computer readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors to enable performance of the operations described herein.

The system memory may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more higher speed memory units such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory polymer memory such as ferroelectric polymer memory ovonic memory phase change or ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards an array of devices such as Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID drives solid state memory devices e.g. USB memory solid state drives SSD and any other type of storage media suitable for storing information. In the illustrated embodiment shown in the system memory can include non volatile memory and or volatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS can be stored in the non volatile memory .

The computer may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more lower speed memory units including an internal or external hard disk drive HDD a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD to read from or write to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive to read from or write to a removable optical disk e.g. a CD ROM DVD or Blu ray . The HDD FDD and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a HDD interface an FDD interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The HDD interface for external drive implementations can include at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies.

The drives and associated computer readable media provide volatile and or nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For example a number of program modules can be stored in the drives and memory units including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . In one embodiment the one or more application programs other program modules and program data can include for example the various applications and or components to implement the disclosed embodiments.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wire wireless input devices for example a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices may include microphones infra red IR remote controls radio frequency RF remote controls game pads stylus pens card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors styluses and the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface and so forth.

A display is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adaptor . The display may be internal or external to the computer . In addition to the display a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices such as speakers printers and so forth.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wire and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wire wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks for example a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network for example the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a wire and or wireless communication network interface or adaptor . The adaptor can facilitate wire and or wireless communications to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless functionality of the adaptor .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wire and or wireless device connects to the system bus via the input device interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with wire and wireless devices or entities using the IEEE 802 family of standards such as wireless devices operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. IEEE 802.11 over the air modulation techniques . This includes at least Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity WiMax and Bluetooth wireless technologies among others. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11x a b g n etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wire networks which use IEEE 802.3 related media and functions .

As shown in the communications architecture comprises includes one or more clients and servers . The clients may implement the client device for example. The servers may implement the server device for example. The clients and the servers are operatively connected to one or more respective client data stores and server data stores that can be employed to store information local to the respective clients and servers such as cookies and or associated contextual information.

The clients and the servers may communicate information between each other using a communication framework . The communications framework may implement any well known communications techniques and protocols. The communications framework may be implemented as a packet switched network e.g. public networks such as the Internet private networks such as an enterprise intranet and so forth a circuit switched network e.g. the public switched telephone network or a combination of a packet switched network and a circuit switched network with suitable gateways and translators .

The communications framework may implement various network interfaces arranged to accept communicate and connect to a communications network. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Network interfaces may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and the like token ring wireless network interfaces cellular network interfaces IEEE 802.11a x network interfaces IEEE 802.16 network interfaces IEEE 802.20 network interfaces and the like. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types. For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and unicast networks. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and capacity distributed network controller architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by clients and the servers . A communications network may be any one and the combination of wired and or wireless networks including without limitation a direct interconnection a secured custom connection a private network e.g. an enterprise intranet a public network e.g. the Internet a Personal Area Network PAN a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network a cellular network and other communications networks.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression one embodiment or an embodiment along with their derivatives. These terms mean that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Further some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

With general reference to notations and nomenclature used herein the detailed descriptions herein may be presented in terms of program procedures executed on a computer or network of computers. These procedural descriptions and representations are used by those skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art.

A procedure is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of operations leading to a desired result. These operations are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It proves convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. It should be noted however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to those quantities.

Further the manipulations performed are often referred to in terms such as adding or comparing which are commonly associated with mental operations performed by a human operator. No such capability of a human operator is necessary or desirable in most cases in any of the operations described herein which form part of one or more embodiments. Rather the operations are machine operations. Useful machines for performing operations of various embodiments include general purpose digital computers or similar devices.

Various embodiments also relate to apparatus or systems for performing these operations. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purpose or it may comprise a general purpose computer as selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. The procedures presented herein are not inherently related to a particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose machines may be used with programs written in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these machines will appear from the description given.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow a reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed architecture. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and or methodologies but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the novel architecture is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

