---

title: Enhancement to the buffer status report for coordinated uplink grant allocation in dual connectivity in an LTE network
abstract: Technology for efficiently splitting a bearer at the packet data convergence protocol (PDCP) layer for uplink (UL) data transfers in wireless networks where dual connectivity is available is disclosed. A user equipment (UE) can send buffer status reports (BSRs) to a master evolved node B (MeNB) and a secondary evolved node B (SeNB). The BSRs can be formatted such that the amount of data in a radio link control (RLC) buffer at the UE and the amount of data in a packet data convergence protocol (PDCP) buffer at the UE are contained in different fields. The BSRs can also contain redundancy indicator (RI) values specifying a redundancy level between the PDCP buffer amounts included in the BSRS. The MeNB and the SeNB may then coordinate, via an X2 interface, an amount of uplink (UL) resources to allocate to the UE.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09635655&OS=09635655&RS=09635655
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09635655
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141224
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 943 983 filed Feb. 24 2014 the entire specification of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems a node can be a combination of an Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node B also commonly called evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and a Radio Network Controllers RNCs . Such a node can communicate with a wireless device known as a user equipment UE . A downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the geographic region in which the wireless devices UEs are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets can be used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes small eNBs micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes small nodes or small cells.

In LTE data can be transmitted from the eNodeB to the UE via a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH . A physical uplink control channel PUCCH can be used to acknowledge that data was received. Downlink and uplink channels or transmissions can use time division duplexing TDD or frequency division duplexing FDD .

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope is thereby intended.

Before some embodiments are disclosed and described it is to be understood that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the particular structures process operations or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In 3GPP LTE Release 12.0 user equipments UEs may connect to more than one cell site simultaneously. For example a UE may connect to a master evolved node B MeNB and at least one secondary evolved node B SeNB simultaneously. When the UE connects to two cells the UE may receive data bearers from both cells at substantially the same time. The multiple bearers may be sent to the UE based on a location of an S1 U termination and location of the bearer split. In one example the S1 U may be terminated at the MeNB and the bearer split may be performed at a packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer in the MeNB.

The dual connectivity architectures described in are further discussed in 3GPP Technical Review TR 36.842 Version 12.0.0.

In one configuration the PDCP layer in the MeNB may receive packets e.g. PDCP SDU packets or PDCP PDU packets from higher layers in the downlink. The higher layers may include the IP layer or application layer in the MeNB. The PDCP layer may temporarily store the packets in a transmission buffer. In other words the packets may be temporarily stored in the retransmission buffer until the packets are ready to be communicated i.e. retransmitted in downlink to the UE or the SeNB. For example the packets in the retransmission buffer may be communicated from the MeNB to the UE via a MeNB radio link. As another example the packets in the retransmission buffer may be communicated from the MeNB to the SeNB via a SeNB radio link.

While the 3GPP LTE advanced release 12 specifies that a bearer can be split at the PDCP layer for downlink DL data transfers there is not yet a standard that addresses splitting a bearer at the packet data convergence protocol PDCP layer for uplink UL data transfers. describe approaches that allow a bearer at the PDCP layer for uplink UL data transfers from the UE to the MeNB and SeNB to be split efficiently.

When a UE has data for a radio bearer stored in a packet data convergence protocol PDCP buffer and or RLC buffer that needs to be uploaded to an eNB the UE will first request a grant of uplink resources from the eNB. This is generally accomplished by sending a type of media access control MAC control element CE called a buffer status report BSR to the eNB.

In the legacy BSR format the RLC buffer size and the PDCP buffer size are combined into the same field. The eNB receives the BSR from the UE and allocates uplink resources e.g. resource blocks on component carriers to the UE as needed. However it is not possible for the eNB to know how much of the request is allocated for data in the RLC buffer and how much of the request is allocated for the data in the PDCP buffer.

In accordance with an embodiment a BSR can include separate fields for the RLC buffer size and the PDCP buffer size. For example a first field can include an indication of an amount of data in the PDCP buffer i.e. a PDCP buffer size for which uplink resources are requested from the eNB. In addition a second field in the BSR can include an amount of data in the radio link control RLC buffer i.e. an RLC buffer size for which uplink resources are requested from the eNB. When a UE is connected to a in a dual connectivity architecture to an MeNB and a SeNB at the same time the UE can send two different BSRs a first BSR is sent to the MeNB while a second BSR is sent to the SeNB. The UE in this type of dual connection scenario has a first RLC buffer that corresponds to the MeNB and a second RLC buffer so the first RLC buffer is included in the first BSR and the second RLC buffer is included in the second BSR. However there is only a single PDCP buffer.

As a result if the UE requests uplink UL resources needed for the PDCP buffer data in both the first BSR and the second BSR the UE may be making a redundant request depending on the portions of the PDCP buffer size that are included in each respective BSR . If both the MeNB and the SeNB allocate uplink resources for the same PDCP buffer data network inefficiency may result because the redundantly allocated UL resources could have been used by some other device.

One way to address this issue of redundant requests for uplink resources for PDCP data is for the MeNB and the SeNB to always assume that there is redundancy for which UL resources are requested between the first BSR and the second BSR. However since the RLC buffer size and the PDCP buffer size are combined into the same field in the legacy BSR format it would not be possible to ascertain what percentage of the total data for which UL resources are requested is RLC data as opposed to PDCP data. This is problematic because the RLC buffer size referenced in the first BSR and the RLC buffer size referenced in the second BSR refer to non overlapping data. These non redundant RLC buffer sizes are commingled in the same field with the redundant PDCP buffer sizes if the BSRs are in legacy BSR format. Hence even if the MeNB and SeNB assume that some redundancy exists between the resource requests of the first and second BSRs the eNBs cannot tell many of the resources requested in the BSRs are for needed for RLC data and how many are needed for PDCP data. As a result the eNBs the MeNB and the SeNB may be forced to pessimistically allocate UL resources in order to ensure that sufficient resources are allocated for the non redundant RLC buffer data.

In various embodiments the current technology proposes new BSR formats in which the RLC buffer size and the PDCP buffer size are included in separate fields so that the MeNB and the SeNB can coordinate UL grants for UE PDCP data without encountering the difficulties caused by the RLC and PDCP commingling of the legacy BSR format. In addition these new BSR formats can include a field with a redundancy indicator RI value that further enhance the abilities of the MeNB and the SeNB to coordinate UL grants for the UE.

In one exemplary embodiment a two bit RI value of 00 can signify that UL resources for all UE PDCP buffer data are being requested from a single eNB e.g. either the MeNB or the SeNB but not both . For example a two bit RI value of 11 can signify that UL resources for 100 of the UE PDCP buffer data are being requested from both the MeNB and the SeNB i.e. there is 100 redundancy regarding the requests for UE resources for PDCP buffer data . A two bit RI value of 01 can signify that UL resources are being requested from both the MeNB and the SeNB for PDCP buffer data but that there is no redundancy between the requests. A two bit RI value of 01 can signify that UL resources are being requested from both the MeNB and the SeNB for PDCP buffer data and that there is partial redundancy between the requests. Other pairings of these two bit values with the signified information are possible of course and can be arbitrarily assigned as desired. While examples have been provided for a two bit RI value a plurality of bits can be used to communicate additional information regarding the redundancy information.

In another example circuitry and or processors at the UE can be configured to determine a first percentage of the amount of data in the PDCP buffer at the UE for which to request an uplink UL grant from the the MeNB and determine a second percentage of the amount of data in the PDCP buffer at the UE for which to request an uplink UL grant from the SeNB. The UE may then send a first buffer status report BSR communication from the UE to the MeNB and send a second buffer status report BSR communication from the UE to the SeNB. One or more of the first BSR communication and the second BSR communication can include the RLC buffer size and the first or second percentage of the amount of data in the PDCP buffer in separate fields.

In another example circuitry and or processors at the UE can be configured to select a redundancy indicator RI value that represents a redundancy relationship between the first percentage of the amount of data in the PDCP buffer and the second percentage of the amount of data in the PDCP buffer. This RI value can be included in one or more of the first BSR communication and the second BSR communication.

In another example one or more of the first buffer status report BSR communication and the second buffer status report BSR communication can comprises a short BSR media access control MAC control element. The short BSR MAC control element can comprise a logical channel group LCG identification ID the RLC buffer size at least one of the first percentage of the amount of data in the PDCP buffer and the second percentage of the amount of data in the PDCP buffer and the RI value.

In another example one or more of the first buffer status report BSR communication and the second buffer status report BSR communication can comprise a long BSR media access control MAC control element. The long BSR MAC control element can comprise four 4 radio link control RLC buffer sizes each RLC buffer size pertaining to a different logical channel group LCG four 4 packet data convergence protocol PDCP buffer sizes each PDCP buffer size pertaining to a different logical channel group LCG the RI value and a plurality of bits indicating an amount of redundancy between the first percentage of the amount of data in the PDCP buffer and the second percentage of the amount of data in the PDCP buffer with greater specificity than the RI value.

In another example circuitry and or processors at the UE can be configured to send a MAC subheader along with one or more of the first buffer status report BSR communication and the second buffer status report BSR communication. The MAC subheader can include a logical channel identification LCID for an uplink shared channel UL SCH wherein the LCID is used to identify the BSR MAC control element.

In another example the RI value may be represented using two bits. In another example an RI value of 00 can indicate that the PDCP buffer size is sent to only one of the MeNB or the SeNB an RI value of 11 can indicate that there is complete redundancy between the first percentage of the amount of data in the PDCP buffer and the second percentage of the amount of data in the PDCP buffer an RI value of 01 can indicate that there is no redundancy between the first percentage of the amount of data in the PDCP buffer and the second percentage of the amount of data in the PDCP buffer and an RI value of 10 can indicate that there is partial redundancy between the first percentage of the amount of data in the PDCP buffer and the second percentage of the amount of data in the PDCP buffer.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and examples may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as de facto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of some embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the claimed subject matter.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the claimed subject matter in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the claimed subject matter. Accordingly it is not intended that the claimed subject matter be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

