---

title: Method and system of searching and collating video files, establishing semantic group, and program storage medium therefor
abstract: The disclosure introduces a method and a system of searching and collating video files, a method for establishing a semantic group, and a program storage medium therefor. In the method of searching and collating video files, program information in an electronic program guide (EPG) may be used for searching matching candidate video files, and titles of the candidate video files are reformatted or amended for selection. Some of the candidate video files are integrated to be a complete program, and these candidate video files may be grouped into a channel set for users to watch.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641911&OS=09641911&RS=09641911
owner: Industrial Technology Research Institute
number: 09641911
owner_city: Hsinchu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20140423
---
This application claims the priority benefit of Taiwan application serial no. 102146242 filed on Dec. 13 2013. The entirety of the above mentioned patent application is hereby incorporated by reference herein and made a part of this specification.

The disclosure relates to a method and a system of searching and collating video files a method for establishing a semantic group and a program storage medium therefore.

Televisions are developed from single way broadcasting in the past to having digital two way interactive functions and now even connected TVs combined with network are also developed. Currently for signal sources of televisions around the world analog signals are gradually replaced by digital signals. Along with the maturity of network streaming technologies on line video platforms and contents are also vigorously developed. Due to having playback on demand characteristics without limitations of time and restrictions of channel numbers by cable TV system opera users can experience more diversity of video platforms and contents.

At present signals of current connected TVs are transmitted in two modes one is transmitting digital signals for the users to watch programs broadcasted by digital television stations and the other is connecting network signals for the users to watch network videos. The digital signals and the network signals are from different signal sources e.g. the broadcasting industry in Europe launches a hybrid broadcast broadband TV HbbTV service. The HbbTV service is a TV service combining the conventional TV broadcasting service and network contents which allow users to use social network applications or any other applications for interactive TV services such as polling discussion shopping and so on.

Even though the TV digital signals and network communication technologies has been available subscribers still have to access to the televisions for video files by using computer like operation interfaces since most of the operators merely build in software for network video platform on the televisions. Accordingly TV programs have not yet been actually integrated into network videos. The software for video platforms e.g. YouTube Tudou Youku and so on which are built in the connected TVs generally provide a searching function and when a specific video file is to be watched on a video platform at least one keyword has to be manually input for searching. The manually input operation is less convenient and may cause further inconvenience resulted from poor searching results to users if the least one keyword is unclearly given.

The disclosure introduces a method of searching and collating video files including the following steps. A semantic keyword is retrieved according to video information. The semantic keyword includes title infatuation. A plurality of candidate video files is searched according to the semantic keyword in a video platform and obtained. Each of the candidate video files is parsed by using a video semantic searching and collating process such that a plurality of matched video files is selected and grouped. The grouped matched video files are gathered in at least one video channel set.

The disclosure introduces a system of searching and collating video files including a retrieving unit a searching unit and a processing unit. The retrieving unit retrieves a semantic keyword according to video information and the semantic keyword includes title information. The searching unit searches according to the semantic keyword in a video platform and obtains a plurality of candidate video files. The processing unit parses each of the candidate video files by using a video semantic searching and collating process such that a plurality of matched video files is selected and grouped to gather the grouped matched video files are in at least one video channel set.

The disclosure introduces a method of establishing semantic groups. At least one first language episode term at least one first language date term at least one first language part number term or at least one first language clip term in a first language is respectively compiled into an episode semantic group a date semantic group a part number semantic group or a clip number semantic group. Synonyms of the at least one second language episode term synonyms of the at least one second language date term synonyms of the at least one second language part number term or synonyms of the at least one second language clip term are respectively compiled into the episode semantic group the date semantic group the part number semantic group or the clip number semantic group. Synonym abbreviations of the at least one second language episode teem synonym abbreviations of the at least one second language date term synonym abbreviations of the at least one second language part number term or synonym abbreviations of the at least one second language clip term are respectively compiled into the episode semantic group the date semantic group the part number semantic group or the clip number semantic group.

The disclosure introduces a non volatile computer storage medium of storing a computer program for storing a computer program which is configured for an electronic apparatus to perform a method of searching and collating video files including the following steps. A semantic keyword is retrieved according to video information. The semantic keyword includes title information. A plurality of candidate video files is searched according to the semantic keyword in a video platform and obtained. Each of the candidate video files is parsed by using a video semantic searching and collating process such that a plurality of matched video files is selected and grouped. The grouped matched video files are gathered in at least one video channel set.

The disclosure introduces a non volatile computer storage medium for storing a computer program which is configured for an electronic apparatus to perform a method of establishing semantic groups including the following steps. At least one first language episode term at least one first language date term at least one first language part number term or at least one first language clip term in a first language is respectively compiled into an episode semantic group a date semantic group a part number semantic group or a clip number semantic group. Synonyms of the at least one second language episode term synonyms of the at least one second language date term synonyms of the at least one second language part number term or synonyms of the at least one second language clip term are respectively compiled into the episode semantic group the date semantic group the part number semantic group or the clip number semantic group. Synonym abbreviations of the at least one second language episode term synonym abbreviations of the at least one second language date term synonym abbreviations of the at least one second language part number term or synonym abbreviations of the at least one second language clip term are respectively compiled into the episode semantic group the date semantic group the part number semantic group or the clip number semantic group.

Several exemplary embodiments accompanied with figures are described in detail below to further describe the disclosure in details.

In the following detailed description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed embodiments. It will be apparent however that one or more embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are schematically shown in order to simplify the drawing.

The term coupling coupled used in this specification including claims may refer to any direct or indirect connection means. For example a first device is coupled to a second device could be interpreted as the first device is directly connected to the second device or the first device is indirectly connected to the second device through other devices or connection means. Moreover wherever appropriate in the drawings and embodiments elements components steps with the same reference numerals represent the same or similar parts. Elements components steps with the same reference numerals or names in different embodiments may be cross referenced.

According to the exemplary embodiment of the disclosure a method of searching and collating video files is introduced by which candidate video files which meets initial conditions are automatically searched in a video platform on a network according to an electronic program guide EPG or video information obtained form another place the candidate video files are grouped such as by formatting titles of the video files so as to select matched video files from the candidate video files and arrange the matched video files according to episodes and thereby a user can view the video files conveniently.

According to one of the exemplary embodiments of the disclosure a system of searching and collating video files is introduced. When the user uses a remote control apparatus to switch from a digital signal mode to a network signal mode the video file searching and collating system automatically retrieves program information e.g. a titles an episode number a category and so on related to a digital signal program that the user is watching and collates the digital signal program according to the program information in at least one video channel set on a video platform such that the user can obtain consecutive video files to watch one episode by one episode and satisfying viewing experience without manual searching.

The disclosure introduces a method of searching and collating video files. According to one of the exemplary embodiments of the disclosure the method includes the following steps. Metadata of program information is retrieved. At least one semantic keyword is retrieved for searching in a video platform to obtain a plurality of candidate video files. The semantic keyword may be retrieved from a part of metadata of the video information or from any other source such as source information related to the program information. The candidate video files programs from different sources i.e. different uploaders or video platforms are collected and collated in the same set according semantics by using a program semantic parsing module program semantic search algorithm and program semantic collating algorithm. With the channel collection introduced by one of the exemplary embodiments of the disclosure the semantics are changed to search the matched video files having consecutive episodes based on the program semantic search algorithm to establish at least one video channel set for the user to select. The program semantic parsing module is using a program semantic parsing method.

In the method of searching and collating video files introduced by the disclosure the step of obtaining the metadata of the program information introduced in one of the exemplary embodiments further includes obtaining the metadata of the program information by using an electronic program guide EPG according to one exemplary embodiment. The EPG may be referred to for example inserting service information SI of standard definition or program information of other standards in transport stream TS complying with for example moving picture experts group 2 MPEG 2 standard. Subscribers may know about information related to programs video files including program titles programs categories broadcast time introductions etc. through the EPG for retrieving and managing the programs. In the method of the present embodiment an EPG parser serves to retrieve the metadata describing the program information such as program titles categories locations video lengths dates and so on.

In the method of searching and collating video files introduced by the disclosure retrieving the at least one semantic keyword to search in the video platform and obtain the candidate video files includes retrieving the at least one semantic keyword by using a part of columns in the metadata of the program information e.g. a program title and a category in the metadata. If the metadata of the program information already includes the program title and the category e.g. the drama category the variety category or the like the part of the data column is directly parsed. If the data column cannot be parsed or is null the data may be retrieved from any other source such as source information related to the program information. For example in an exemplary embodiment the EPG may be parsed according to a currently viewed channel number and a current time so as to retrieve the program title and the category.

In the method of searching and collating video files introduced by the disclosure the program semantic parsing module of one of the exemplary embodiments adopts for example a filter style and a semantic style for parsing. The filter style includes for example a universal filter semantic group and a user defined filter semantic group. The universal filter semantic group serves to filter out improper video programs having titles including program type restriction semantics for example the programs having titles including sensational and violent terms. The user defined filter semantic group serves to filter out programs having titles including undesired semantics such as program having titles including ad terms preview terms background music. The semantic style includes for example an episode semantic group a date semantic group a clip semantic group a definition semantic group. The episode semantic group serves to find out programs having titles including episode terms such as episode 11 the 11episode Ep11 and so on. The date semantic group serves to find out programs having titles including date formats such as 2012 07 10 Jul. 10 2012 2012 7 10 and so on. The clip semantic group serves to find out programs having titles including clip terms such as Part1 Pt1 p1 6 and so on. The definition semantic group serves to search programs having titles including definition terms such as 480p 720p and so on.

In the method of searching and collating video files introduced by the disclosure the program semantic search algorithm according to one of the embodiment may serve to combine the program titles and the semantic information as at least one set of searching conditions to search in at least one video platform and feed back at least one searching result. The combination manner for the program semantic search algorithm may be for example directly combining the program titles with episodes or dates of the metadata as a set of searching conditions or combining the program titles with a plurality of synonyms in the metadata having semantics consistent with the episodes as a plurality of sets of searching conditions.

In the method of searching and collating video files introduced by the disclosure in the program semantic collating algorithm introduced by one of the exemplary embodiments different uploaders or different platforms have different naming habits for example Grey s Anatomy plus the 11episode may be schematically named as Grey s Anatomy 11 or Grey s Anatomy episode 11 or even clipped as Grey s Anatomy episode 11 01 Grey s Anatomy episode 11 02 and so on. Thus according to the at least one searching result fed back by using the program semantic search algorithm matched programs or video files are added in a program set or video channel set in other example through the program semantic parsing module such as comparing and filtering out unmatched programs by using the filter style. Then according to metadata types of the programs a proper semantic style is selected for the comparing operation and the programs having the matched episode are added into the program set. Alternatively following the matched clipped programs other clipped programs owned by the same uploader continue to be searched and thereby all the clipped programs are integrated into a program group and the program group is added into the program set.

In the method of searching and collating video files introduced by the disclosure with the channel collection introduced by one of the exemplary embodiments of the disclosure the semantics are changed to search the programs having consecutive episodes based on the program semantic search algorithm to establish the at least one channel. For example the manner for the semantics being changed is determined according to the program category such as episodes of the drama category being changed by accumulating from the first episode to the Nepisode or dates of the variety category being changed by accumulating from the past N days to today. Then the program title and the semantic group are combined as the at least one semantic keyword for performing the program semantic search algorithm until no more new programs are found so as to establish a semantic channel.

In the method of searching and collating video files introduced by the disclosure the video file searching and collating system may search new programs by periodically changing the semantic group and performing the program semantic search algorithm so as to achieve automatically updating semantic programs in the channel. For example the programs in the program set are grouped into a valid program sub set and an invalid program sub set according to validity of the programs and the validity of the programs are periodically detected so as to dynamically update the sub sets. The validity of the programs may be obtained by means of an application interface API provided by the at least one video platform. The API may parse the validity for the video files programs of the at least one video channel set after a predetermined time period to divide the video files programs in the at least one video channel set into a valid program sub set and an invalid program sub set.

In the method of searching and collating video files introduced by the disclosure it further includes the programs with higher definition or less clip number in the valid program sub set are recommended to the subscribers.

The method of searching and collating video files introduced by the disclosure will be described with reference to one of the exemplary embodiments along with the drawings as below which does not construe any limitations to the disclosure.

The method of searching and collating video file according to the disclosure may be implemented in a software a hardware or a firmware format or any combination thereof or stored in a non transient computer readable storage medium. In a scenario where the method is implemented in the hardware format one of an application specific integrated circuits ASIC a digital signal processors DSP a digital signal processing device DSPD a programmable logic device PLD a field programmable gate arrays FPGA a processor a controller a microprocessor and any other electrical unit executing a specified task can be used to implement the method of searching and collating the video files according to the disclosure.

In a scenario where the method of searching and collating video files according to the embodiments of the disclosure is implemented in the software format operations and functions of the method may be implemented by using software modules. A software module may be configured to execute at least one of the functions and the operations. A storage medium may be a non transient computer readable storage medium configured to store program commands as follows a program command of executing at least one rule or routine in response to a program execution command and a program command of executing at least one operation corresponding to a user defined condition in the executed rule or routine when the user defined condition in the routine is reached. The storage medium may also be a non transient computer readable storage medium storing program commands as follows a program command of configuring a rule including a condition and an operation corresponding to the condition in response to a speech input or a text input based on a natural language a program command of enabling a rule in response to an command of instructing the rule a program command of confirming whether the user defined condition in the executed rule is reached and a program command of executing an operation corresponding to the user defined condition.

After a video file searching and collating system parses the candidate video files at least one or more matched video files are obtained and the video file searching and collating system collates the matched video files in a video collection . The video collection includes video groups through . Each video group is a complete video file including a plurality of episodes or at least one complete episode video content. For example the video group is a candidate video file and does not have to be integrated with other video files since the candidate video file is a complete video file having a complete episode video content. The video groups and are the matched video files having matched clip numbers and integrated with clipped video files belonging to other clips into a video file having a complete episode of content.

In an exemplary embodiment retrieving unit retrieves metadata of video information from for example the set top box of the connected TV or the television . The video information may include for example title information category information playback time information content introduction information but the disclosure is not limited thereto. In an exemplary embodiment the searching unit serves for example title information and or episode information as semantic keywords and searches for one or more candidate video files matching the semantic keywords in a video platform over a network . The video platform may be a video searching platform such as YouTube or Dailymotion but the disclosure is not limited thereto. In an exemplary embodiment if the metadata of the video information includes a program title and a category e.g. the drama category the variety category or the like the data thereof is directly parsed. If the data column cannot be parsed or is null the data may be retrieved from any other source such as source information related to the program information. For example in an exemplary embodiment an electronic program guide EPG website may be parsed according to a currently viewed channel number and a current time via the network to retrieve the program title and the category.

In an exemplary embodiment the processing unit parses a title of each of the candidate video files to generate a formatted title of each of the candidate video files selects matched video files according to the formatted titles from the candidate video files and groups the matched video files to form video groups and video collection. Semantic information of the formatted titles of the matched video files corresponding to the video information accorded in the searching operation.

In one of the exemplary embodiments the video information may be obtained by retrieving an EPG from the set top box of the connected TV or the television . In an exemplary embodiment the EPG may be service information SI inserted in a transport stream TS complying with MPEG 2 standard. The user may learn information related to programs including program titles program categories playback times content introductions and so on through the EPG so as to carry out program searching and management.

Next a method of searching and collating video files according to one of the exemplary embodiments of the disclosure will be described. With reference to is a schematic flowchart of a method of searching and collating video files according to an exemplary embodiment of the disclosure. The method of the present exemplary embodiment is applicable to search and collate video files and may be performed along with the video file searching and collating system illustrated in of which detail steps will be described below but the disclosure is not limited thereto.

Referring to in step S video information is retrieved. The video information includes for example title information. In the present exemplary embodiment when the user switches from a digital signal mode to a network signal mode the video file searching and collating system retrieves video information e.g. a video title episode information category information playback time information and content introduction information provided through an EPG related to the digital signal program that the user is watching. If metadata of the program already includes the video tile and the video category e.g. the drama category variety category and so on the data thereof is directly retrieved. If the title information the category information or the episode information is incapable of being retrieved the title information the category information and the episode information are retrieved according to a channel number and a current time of the currently viewed digital signal program through network connection by using an EPG website such as now TV website http nowtv.now.com . In other exemplary embodiments the video file searching and collating system may also retrieve the video information related to the currently viewed program while the user is watching the digital signal program.

In step S the video file searching and collating system searches according to at least one semantic keyword in the network video platform and obtains at least one candidate video file. The at least one semantic keyword includes title information for example. In the present exemplary embodiment at least one candidate video file initially filtered by the search engine of the video platform may be obtained from the network video platform. However initial filtering results of the search engine may be insufficient for needs and further processes have to be performed by the video file searching and collating system.

In step S the title of each candidate video file is parsed to generate a formatted title of each candidate video file. According to the formatted title at least one matched video file is selected from the candidate video files. In step S the matched video files are grouped by using for example a grouping manner and semantic information of the formatted title of the least one matched video file is corresponding to the video information accorded by the searching operation. In the present exemplary embodiment the processing unit of the video file searching and collating system parses the title of the at least one initially selected candidate video file. For example in an exemplary embodiment information such as title information and definition information included in the title is outputted in the regular expression introduced by the disclosure. The parsing operation and definition of grouping that are mentioned in the present embodiment will be described below. In the present exemplary embodiment the step of the user switching from the digital signal mode to the network signal mode by using a remote control apparatus serves to trigger the operation of step S of the method of searching and collating the video files. In an exemplary embodiment the aforementioned selection means may be built in the remote control apparatus for controlling signal switching of a digital television e.g. a playback unit of the digital television or built in a touch display a user interface or any interface for the user to input or select on the display. Those that serve the user s conveniently or easily switching of the digital television signal as the triggering conditions pertain to the scope of applications of the disclosure.

In step S the title of each candidate video file is parsed to generate the formatted title of each candidate video file. In step S according to the formatted title the at least one matched video file is selected from the candidate video files. In the present exemplary embodiment the processing unit of the video file searching and collating system compares video information with the formatted title information of each candidate video file. If video information that is identical to the formatted title information of each candidate video file it indicates that the candidate video file is a matched video file. Step S follows step S i.e. the matched video files are grouped. Step S may further include the following steps. In step S whether the at least one matched video file is a complete video file or a clip is determined. In step S if the at least one matched video file is a complete video the at least one matched video file serves as a video group. In step S if the at least one matched video file is a clip the other clips of the matched video file are searched and all the clips are integrated together as a video group. In the present exemplary embodiment the other clips may be searched according to an account uploading the matched video file or in other matched video files but the disclosure is not limited thereto. The video semantic searching and collating process may be step S and step S illustrated in but the disclosure is not limited thereto. The program semantic search algorithm may be step S illustrated in . The program semantic collating algorithm may be step S illustrated in . The program semantic parsing method may be step S illustrated in but the disclosure is not limited thereto.

In step S each of the matched video files is grouped into a valid video group and an invalid video group depending whether the matched video files are accessible. In the present exemplary embodiment the video file searching and collating system only provides the valid video group to the user. After the matched video files is grouped into the valid video group and the invalid video group according to whether the matched video file is accessible in step S whether each video file is accessible is periodically detected so as to update the valid video group and the invalid video group. After step S as in step S one or more better video groups in the valid video group is provided to the user the better video groups may have higher definition than the other video groups in video platforms having higher transmission speed than the other video groups or the like but the disclosure is not limited thereto. On other exemplary embodiments step S may be performed after step S.

In step S whether there are other semantic groups unused for searching are determined. If there are other semantic groups unused for searching in step S the next semantic group is loaded in and step S is returned to. If there are no other semantic groups unused for searching step S is entered to determine whether there is any video platform unsearched. If there is any video platform unsearched step S is entered to load the next video platform and step S is returned to. If there is no video platform unsearched the method of searching and collating video files is ended.

With reference to and in step S a filter semantic group serves to filter the titles of the candidate video files. Step S may include step S and step S. In step S a universal filter semantic group serves to filter the titles of the candidate video files if a semantic included in the universal filter semantic group appear in a title the candidate video file having the title is not one of the matched video files. In step S a user defined filter semantic group serves to filter the titles of the candidate video files. If a semantic included in the user defined filter semantic group appear in a title the candidate video file having the title is not one of the matched video files. In the present exemplary embodiment the orders of step S and step S may be exchanged or alternatively one or all of the two steps may be omitted. The universal filter semantic group may be the universal filter semantic group illustrated in and the user defined filter semantic group may be the user defined filter semantic group illustrated in or may also be selected correspondingly according to the category information of the candidate video files. For example a sports category user defined filter semantic group is only used to filter the candidate video files belonging to the sports category and a news category user defined filter semantic group is only used to filter the candidate video files belonging to the news category but the disclosure is not limited thereto. If in step S and step S is a candidate video file having a keyword included in the filter semantic group appear in the title the parsing operation of the candidate video file is ended step S is entered and the candidate video file is not selected as a matched video file.

An example of a candidate video file having a title 20130711 Grey s Anatomy Episode Twelve Part5 Give me 1 million 720p will be provided to describe the method illustrated in below. First in step S whether a keyword included in the universal filter semantic group appear in the title of the candidate video file such as AV video chat . Since the title of the candidate video file does not have any keyword included in the universal filter semantic group step S is entered to determine whether a keyword included in the drama category user defined filter semantic group appear in the title such as preview ending clip and so on. Since the title of the candidate video file does not have any keyword included in the user defined filter semantic group step S is entered.

In step S numerals expressed in texts and Roman numerals appearing in a title of a candidate video file are converted into Arabic numerals. For example three thousand is converted in to 3000 and IV is converted into 4 . Thus 1 million appearing in the title of the candidate video file is converted into 1000000 in step S and the title is formed in a format as follows 

In step S semantics included in the title of the candidate video file which incurs mis determination easily are removed such as 1 million in the title of the candidate video file of the present exemplary embodiment or Floor 11 in a title of a candidate video file of another exemplary embodiment which easily incur mis determination to the video file searching and collating system and cause the aforementioned semantics to be mis determined as semantics related to episode information date information definition information or any other information. In the present exemplary embodiment after the title of the candidate video file is converted in step S the semantic 1 million which incurs mis determination easily are removed and the title is formed in a format as follows 

In step S at least one of the definition semantic group the clip number semantic group the episode semantic group and the date semantic group serves to parse the title of the candidate video file so as to output at least one of the definition information the clip number information the episode information or the date information. In the present exemplary embodiment in step S through step S the definition semantic group the clip number semantic group the episode semantic group and the date semantic group are sequentially used to parse the title of the candidate video file but the sequence is not limited in the disclosure. In the present exemplary embodiment the title of the candidate video file may also be parsed by using part of the semantic groups.

In step S the definition semantic group serves to parse the title of the candidate video files to obtain definition information and a position of the definition information in the title of the candidate video file is replace by a specific definition semantic. After the title is parsed in step S the definition information 720P in the title is obtained and the title is formed in a format as follows 

In step S the clip number semantic group serves to parse the title of the candidate video file to obtain clip number information and a position of the clip number information in the title of the candidate video file is replaced by a user defined clip semantic. After the title is parsed in step S the clip number information 5 in the title is obtained and the title is formed in a format as follows 

In step S the episode semantic group serves to parse the title of the candidate video file to obtain episode information and a position of the episode information in the title of the candidate video file is replaced by a user defined episode semantic. After the title is parsed in step S the episode information 12 in the title is obtained and the title is formed in a format as follows 

In the present exemplary embodiment after step S where the episode semantic group serves to parse the title of the candidate video file in step S part number information in the title of the candidate video file is searched and after the title is parsed by using the part number information in step S part number information 1 in the title is obtained and the title is formed in a format as follows 

In step S the date semantic group serves to parse the title of the candidate video file to obtain date information and a position of the date information in the title of the candidate video file is replaced by a user defined date so as to output the episode information the date information the clip number information and the definition information. After the title is parsed in step S date information 2013 7 11 in the title is obtained and the title is formed in a format as follows 

Additionally the step so as to output the episode information the date information the clip number information and the definition information as referred in step S may be performed after all of the information is obtained or in the meantime when the episode information the date information the clip number information and the definition information are obtained in the present exemplary embodiment but the disclosure is not limited thereto. The formatted title as referred to herein means the information obtained by parsing the title of the candidate video file but does not have to use a specific semantic to replace the position of the information in the title of the candidate video file.

With reference to is a schematic flowchart of identifying a part number by using a digit group according to one of the exemplary embodiments of the disclosure. If no episode information is found in step S illustrated in the part number information may be searched by using the method illustrated in . In step S an amount of numeral sets in the title of the candidate video file is detected and each of the numerals is arranged from left to right. In step S if the amount of the numeral sets in the title of the candidate video file is 1 the numeral set is determined to be the episode information. In step S if the amount of the numeral sets in the title of the candidate video file is 2 the numeral sets are arranged from left to right as a first numeral set and a second numeral set. In step S if the amount of the numeral sets in the title of the candidate video file is 3 the numeral sets are arranged from left to right as a first numeral set a second numeral set and a third numeral set wherein the third numeral set is the clip number information.

Thereafter no matter whether the amount of the numeral sets in the title of the candidate video file is 2 or 3 in step S whether the first numeral set is identical to the second numeral set has to be determined. In step S if the first numeral set is not identical to the second numeral set the first numeral set is part number information. If the first numeral set is identical to the second numeral set the format of the video title has to be further confirmed since when the first numeral set is identical to the second numeral set the both the first numeral set and the second numeral set may be episode numbers among commonly used formats in video titles. The video title uploaded by the same uploader may use same format and thus in step S titles of the other video files in the uploader account of the candidate video file are parsed and whether the first numeral set and the second numeral set are identical to each other for each of the other video titles is determined. If the first numeral set in each of the other video titles is identical to the second numeral set in each of the other video titles it represents that in the formats of the video titles of the uploader account both the first numeral set and the second numeral set may be the episode information. Thus in step S the title does not include any part number information and the part number information may be outputted as 1 in step S for example or a value predetermined by the video file searching and collating system may be outputted but the disclosure is not limited thereto. If the first numeral set and the second numeral set of each of the other video titles are not identical it represents that in the formats of the video titles of the uploader account the first numeral set represents the part number information and the second numeral set represents episode information. Accordingly in step S in the title of the candidate video file the first numeral set is part number information and the second numeral set is episode information.

Referring to when step S is performed an issue of overlapping part numbers may occur. The overlapping part numbers refer to that when searching for other clip video files clip video files uploaded by different uploaders would have different clip lengths and clip paragraphs due to different habits of the different uploaders splitting the video files even though the clip video files are form video files having the same title information and episode information. Thus if the clip videos are integrated merely by using the continuous clip number information directly an issue of incoherent video paragraphs is probably incurred. Therefore in step S at least one of the other clip videos belonging to the uploader account of the candidate video files is searched. If the other clip videos conforms the condition of having the same title information as the matched video file and further having the same episode information or the date information as the matched video file are integrated together to form the video group. In the present exemplary embodiment an application programming interface API of a video platform may be used to search other clip videos having the same episode number and owned by the same uploader account. For example in the YouTube video platform the YouTube API may be used to search other clip videos having the same episode number and owned by the same uploader account but the disclosure is not limited thereto.

If the episode information is determined as existent in the video information according to the category information in step S episode information of initiate video information is defined as the episode information of the video information and serves as the episode information of the semantic keywords. If the episode information is determined as inexistent in the video information according to the category information in step S the episode information of the initiate video information is defined as episode 1 and serves as the episode information of the semantic keywords. If the date information is determined as existent in the video information according to the category information in step S date information of the initiate video information is defined as the date information of the video information and serves as the date information of the semantic keywords.

If the date information is determined as inexistent in the video information according to the category information in step S the date information of the initiate video information is defined as the current date and serves as the date information of the semantic keywords. In the present exemplary embodiment if the category information is the drama category the initiate video information starts from episode 1 and if the category information is the variety category the date information of the initiate video information is the date when the method of searching and collating video files is performed. If the episode information or the date information of the currently played video file exists in the video information the episode information or the date information directly serves as the initiate video information.

Afterward referring step S through step S are performed. After step S in step S whether at least one video group is generated is determined. If yes in step S the counter is returned to zero and information related to the at least one video group is recorded and in step S the semantic keywords are changed to search continuous video files matching the at least one video group and then step S is returned to. In the present exemplary embodiment before changing the semantic keywords to search the continuous video files matching the at least one video group category information of the video information is determined. If the category information of the video information is the drama category the semantic keywords are changed for searching for the next episode and if episode 1 is found the semantic keywords are again changed for searching for episode 2. If the category information of the video information is the variety category the semantic keywords are changed for searching the previous episode. For example if a video file of today is found a video of yesterday is searched. If a variety program is once a week a week may be a unit and if a video of today is found a video file of the same day last week is searched.

In step S if no video group is generated a value of the counter is increased and in step S whether the value of the counter is greater than a threshold is determined. In the value of the counter is not greater than the threshold in step S the semantic keywords are changed for searching continuous video files matching the at least one video group. If the value of the counter is greater than the threshold in step S after a time period is waited the semantic keywords are again changed for searching for continuous video files matching the at least one video group. In the present exemplary embodiment if the latest video file is episode 9 episode 10 may be waited for a time period to be posted e.g. a week on a network video platform. Thus the video file searching and collating system would change the semantic keyword from including episode 9 to episode 10 and continue the searching operation after waiting for a time period. If any is found the counter is returned to zero and a whole set of continuous video files are collected to form a channel. and are schematic diagrams of collating individual video files in at least one channel set according to categories according to one of the exemplary embodiments of the disclosure. In the present exemplary embodiment illustrates a channel set of the drama category from which it can be seen that a video set of Grey s Anatomy is arranged from episode 1 illustrates a channel set of the variety category from which it can be seen that a set of the program American Idol is arranged with a week as an interval from the latest episode toward earlier episodes.

In step S synonym abbreviations of the second language episode term synonym abbreviations of the second language date term synonym abbreviations of the second language part number term or synonym abbreviations of the second language clip term are respectively compiled into the episode semantic group the date semantic group the part number semantic group or the clip number semantic group. Formats of the episode semantic group the date semantic group the part number semantic group or the clip number semantic group may be expressed by the regular expressions illustrated in . The semantic groups may be compiled using computer program languages but the disclosure is not limited thereto.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made to the structure of the disclosed embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the disclosure. In view of the foregoing it is intended that the disclosure cover modifications and variations of this disclosure provided they fall within the scope of the following claims and their equivalents.

