---

title: System and method for tracking fitness progress from a client device
abstract: The invention is generally a system that enables a user to visually and graphically track their fitness goals using an interactive device connected to a server, wherein fitness progress data of the user is stored and made available to the user via a user interface, for example on a mobile device application or a webpage. The system of tracking fitness progress comprises a server, a database, and a device, for example a fitness booth, for taking images and gathering fitness progress data from a user. The information gathered at the fitness booth, including images, is stored in the database. Users are provided a graphical user interface to update and access their fitness progress data, thereby facilitating the user's tracking of their fitness progress.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09656144&OS=09656144&RS=09656144
owner: FLEX BOOTH, INC.
number: 09656144
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140306
---
The present application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 805 072 filed on Mar. 25 2013 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates in general to a system and method for tracking fitness progress and more specifically a system that enables a user to visually and graphically track their fitness goals using an interactive photo booth connected to a server wherein fitness progress data of the user is stored and made available to the user via a user interface for example on a mobile device application or a webpage.

Every year millions of people across the world struggle with their fitness goals due to a lack of motivation. One of the key reasons for this lack of motivation is the inability to adequately recognize or monitor progress. Keeping track of fitness goals has always been a hassle in part due to the inconsistency and low compliance rates for recording visual and numerical data. When a gym member finishes a workout they often wish they could take a picture of themselves. The period immediately following a workout is the highest point of motivation for a gym member wherein the member wants to snap a self photo to demonstrate progress to themselves and their friends and family. However most people feel embarrassed about taking self photos at the gym or they simply don t have the time or patience to take each of the necessary pictures from the right distance with the right lighting and in the proper pose. Thus gym members lose out on an important motivating force that could be the difference between continuing a workout regimen and giving up altogether. Therefore there is a need in the art for a system and method for visually and graphically tracking fitness progress in private using a fast interactive gym integrated photo booth. It is to these ends that the present invention has been developed.

To minimize the limitations in the prior art and to minimize other limitations that will be apparent upon reading and understanding the present specification the present invention describes a system and method for tracking fitness progress.

A system of tracking fitness progress in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention comprises a server connected to a network a database residing within the server for storing a user s fitness progress data a first client device connected to the network comprising a user interface and a processor for compiling the user s fitness progress data including one or more images wherein the processor is configured to communicate the fitness progress data between the first client device and the server via a network interface a compartment for housing the first client device and one or more cameras for capturing the one or more images and a graphical user interface for accessing the fitness progress data via a second client device.

A method for tracking fitness progress in accordance with practice of one embodiment of the present invention comprises receiving a request from a first client device for a new session with a server requesting and receiving from the first client device a unique user identifier from a user authenticating the new session by the server presenting instructions to the user via the first client device the instructions designed to capture a fitness progress data from the user the fitness progress data including one or more images of the user capturing via the first client device the fitness progress data from the user including capturing the one or more images of the user sending from the first client device to the server the fitness progress data including the one or more images of the user receiving by the server the fitness progress data of the user storing the fitness progress data in the server s memory receiving a request from a second client device for the fitness progress data authenticating the request from the second client device providing a graphical user interface accessible by the second client device and displaying on the second client device the fitness progress data via the graphical user interface.

A system for tracking a user s fitness progress in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention comprises a server with a database for storing fitness progress data a first client device for compiling the fitness progress data from a user the first client device housed in a compartment with a user interface and one or more cameras and a second client device with access to a graphical user interface for displaying the fitness progress data wherein the server is configured to receive a request for a new session between the server and the first client device authenticate the new session with the first client device in order to receive fitness progress data from the first client device and provide the fitness progress data received from the first client device to the second client device upon receiving a request from the second client device for the fitness progress data and the first client device is configured to present instructions to a user the instructions designed to capture a fitness progress data from the user the fitness progress data including one or more images of the user capture the fitness progress data from the user including capturing the one or more images of the user and send to the server the fitness progress data including the one or more images of the user.

A method for tracking fitness progress in accordance with practice of another embodiment of the present invention comprises receiving a request for a new session from a first client device housed within a compartment including a user interface a camera and a processor for compiling a fitness progress data wherein the processor is configured for communicating the fitness progress data between the first client device and the server via a network interface authenticating a communication session between the server and the first client device receiving a fitness progress data of a user from the first client device wherein the fitness progress data includes one or more images of the user storing the fitness progress data in the server s memory receiving a request from a second client device for the fitness progress data and sending the fitness progress data to the second client device.

A server computer for tracking fitness progress of a user in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention comprises a network interface for communicating with a first client device a database for storing a user s fitness progress data received from the first client device a processor configured to receive a request for a new session from the first client device the first client device comprising a user interface and a camera configured to compile a fitness progress data and communicating the fitness progress data to the processor wherein the first device is housed within a compartment that includes a scale establish a communication session between the processor and the first client device receive the fitness progress data of a user from the first client device wherein the fitness progress data includes one or more images of the user store the fitness progress data in a memory connected to the processor receive a request from a second client device for the fitness progress data and send the fitness progress data to the second client device.

A method for tracking fitness progress from a client device in accordance with practice of one embodiment of the present invention comprises providing a server with a unique identifier associated with a user requesting from the server a fitness progress data of the user compiled by a fitness booth wherein the fitness progress data comprises the user s weight body mass index and one or more photos of the user captured by the fitness booth and displaying the fitness progress data compiled by the fitness booth via the client device.

A method for compiling fitness progress by a client device in accordance with practice of one embodiment of the present invention comprises requesting and receiving a unique user identifier from a user establishing communication with a server for storing a fitness progress data provided by the user presenting instructions to the user via a user interface housed within a compartment including one or more cameras the instructions designed to capture the fitness progress data from the user the fitness progress data including one or more images of the user capturing the fitness progress data including the one or more images of the user and sending the fitness progress data to the server in order to store the fitness progress data in a profile associated with the user.

A booth for compiling fitness progress data in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention comprises one or more cameras for capturing one or more images of a user a client computer configured to request and receive a unique user identifier from the user in order to establish a communication between the client computer and a server present instructions to the user designed to capture the fitness progress data from the user the fitness progress data including one or more images of the user capture the fitness progress data including the one or more images of the user and send the fitness progress data to the server in order to store the fitness progress data in a profile associated with the user.

A device for compiling fitness progress data in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention comprises a network interface for establishing a user interaction session with a server wherein the user interaction session includes providing the server with a fitness progress data of the user a user interface for providing user instructions to obtain the fitness progress data from the user the fitness progress data including one or more images of the user one or more cameras for capturing the one or more images of the user and a booth for housing the user interface and the one or more cameras the booth adapted to provide the user with privacy during the user interaction session.

It is an objective of the present invention to allow a user to capitalize on the high fitness motivation levels while engaged at a fitness and health facility.

It is another objective of the present invention to provide a quick easy way of documenting fitness progress while engaged at a fitness and health facility.

It is yet another objective of the present invention to extend post workout motivation by allowing users to remotely view their fitness progress through employing graphical user interfaces such as web sites and mobile smart device apps.

It is yet another objective of the present invention to connect users around the world to remain motivated in their fitness goals and lifestyle by having their own user profile on a community page where users can share their data rate and comment on other users data and engage in competitions that award users for their fitness accomplishments.

It is yet another objective of the present invention to provide advisory and community forums for fitness booth users to gain helpful and pertinent fitness diet and health related advice tips and suggestions.

It is yet another objective of the present invention to afford privacy to users while taking fitness progress photos.

These and other advantages and features of the present invention are described herein with specificity so as to make the present invention understandable to one of ordinary skill in the art.

In the following discussion that addresses a number of embodiments and applications of the present invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof where depictions are made by way of illustration of specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The present system and method for tracking fitness progress utilizes a fitness booth with a private enclosure incorporated into a gym. This fitness booth sends and receives information pertaining to user profiles to and from a server. Users access their accounts through their respective user profile and thereafter interact with the fitness booth interface to compile information for instance body weight height body mass index BMI body fat percentage and photos taken by the fitness booth from various athletic and non athletic poses. Users may share their profile information and fitness progress and goals with other fitness booth users and members of their social media circles. The present invention capitalizes on heightened motivation following a workout by providing a simple convenient means to document fitness progress. A user may then subsequently analyze their progress remotely using other graphical user interfaces GUIs such as a website mobile phone app or more generally a mobile smart device including but not limited to a tablet or cell phone.

While the disclosure of a fitness booth in accordance with the present invention may refer to the fitness booth as being present within a gym the term gym is not to be construed as limiting. Within the content of the disclosure gym is to be defined as any coordinated location wherein fitness and or health are emphasized and workouts may be performed.

Server stores and provides data pertaining to a user s fitness progress in order to provide users with a means to track their personal progress with regards to their fitness goals. Without limiting the scope of the present invention this fitness progress data may comprise weight data body mass index data body fat percentage data exercise routine data exercise type data and personal user information such as age sex and height. Server may store information such as fitness progress data in individual user profiles such as profile . Thus server may act as a database server that performs information storage and retrieval services. Furthermore server may be a local server a remote server or a combination of multiple servers situated in one or more locations. As a local server server might be a gym s server within or in close proximity to the gym. As a remote server server may exist anywhere and may hold database information from one or more gyms. Typically server is configured to handle incoming requests from a variety of requesting entities. For example and without limiting the scope of the present invention a requesting entity may be a remote device a fitness booth website or smart device application. Requests to server may include a request to upload information pertaining to a user profile a request to create a new user profile and a request to access user information pertaining to a stored user profile.

As mentioned above server may be any type of server i.e. one or more computers with a memory and a database suitable for storing and providing fitness progress data. However in an exemplary embodiment server comprises representational state transfer REST architecture. Although other architectures may be implemented a REST server may be desirable to maximize efficiency particularly in systems that may experience an expanding user profile pool. Furthermore REST architecture adds an element of security that is well known and suitable for system as server may act a barrier between the various devices and applications requesting data and database . Furthermore this architecture will provide a centralized means of connecting with other system components such as third party advertisers applications and websites.

Server may comprise different modules for performing different types of tasks. For example and without limiting the scope of the present invention server may include a module for calculating a fitness analysis such as calculating BMI body fat percentage or providing graphics that show change in fitness data of a user over a period of time. Similarly server may include a module for providing advertisements and for providing a graphical user interface for users via a website or via a mobile application.

Database typically contains substantially all the information acquired from users via fitness booth . For instance database may contain fitness booth profile information on three gyms in a five mile radius or on all gyms with a fitness booth.

Profile contains a user s personal information and fitness progress data. Profile may comprise the user s height weight body mass index body fat percentage a profile photo length of usage compilation of progress photos or any other type of fitness related or otherwise descriptive information. This data may be updated via fitness booth or may be updated via a remote device such as remote device . Users may later view and share their profiles with other users in order to receive help with their fitness goals help others achieve their fitness goals or simply to share the information with other users.

Network may be any type of network such as a wide area network or a local network. Typically network is a wide area network such as the internet wherein a large number of users may communicate from anywhere in the world. In exemplary embodiments network links many users via smart device and computer to provide mutual access to many internet based features. Thus network may provide access to personal or mass profile information on a website or mobile device application. Network provides the means to transmit information to or from a remote user or a local fitness booth user.

Remote devices and may be any remote device connected to network . For example and without limiting the scope of the present invention remote device may be a laptop for connecting a user to server remote device may be a smartphone for connecting a user to server and remote device may be a tablet for connecting a user to server . Users may connect to server via remote devices to log in to their respective fitness booth profiles retrieving pertinent information from database within server .

Fitness booth may be used to gather and capture the required information in order to generate fitness progress data for users of system . Fitness booth typically comprises user interface processor camera and scale . Fitness booth communicates with server through network . A user for example a gym member may utilize fitness booth before or after a workout in order to record their most recent fitness related data. For example and without deviating from the scope of the present invention a user may complete their exercise routine for the day and use fitness booth to input their routine data along with their current weight body mass index and or body fat percentage. Furthermore users may upload one or more images of themselves in order to create a record of their progress. All this information is uploaded to server under their user profile so that the user may access this information at a later time. In this manner the user may gather fitness progress data every time he or she visits the gym and upload the data for later retrieval.

User interface is the means through which a user undergoes the steps necessary to complete an iteration in fitness booth . Any known user interface may be provided so long as it is suitable for gathering the required information from the user of fitness booth . For example and without limiting the scope of the present invention user interface may be a simple computer such as a large tablet that includes a touch screen. Of course other interfaces may be suitable including a desktop computer with a screen and keyboard for providing user input. In an exemplary embodiment user interface comprises a touch screen for receiving user inputs and providing visual and audio instructions to a user of fitness booth .

Processor may be any suitable processor for carrying out the various functions of fitness booth . For example and without limiting the scope of the present invention processor may be configured to receive user inputs pertaining to personal user information such as age sex and current height. Furthermore processor should be able to process images captured by camera and receive and process weight information received from scale . Processor may also be configured to receive information from other tools or components within fitness booth such as fitness analysis tools that are capable of estimating a user s change in body fat percentage.

Camera is utilized to capture images of fitness booth users. Camera may be any type of camera capable of capturing close range photographs. In one embodiment camera comprises a single camera that utilizes a wide angle lens. This may be desirable as different users have different body types and different heights. Other embodiments may include multiple cameras without deviating from the scope of the present invention and any type of known camera system may be implemented so long as users are able to capture one or more images for uploading to server .

Scale may display and record a user s current weight which may also be uploaded to their profile. The user may then retrieve this data and compare it to the other fitness progress data that is compiled and stored by server . Weight data may be provided to the user via user interface and provided to processor in order to calculate other useful information for example the user s body mass index and or body fat percentage. Hence while more complex scale systems may be incorporated to provide users with a wide range of data scale may be a simple scale configured to provide processor with the weight of each user.

Images captured by camera and information recorded by scale are sent to server via network for storing in database . Each user typically has a unique identifier associated with a profile that contains personal fitness progress data. As a user continues to upload their information each user s profile becomes a historical record of that user s fitness progression. Users may use this information as a source of motivation for themselves and others. By accessing their profiles via a remote device users may not only access their own information remotely but also share their fitness progress with others. Other services may be implemented as well. For example help forums related to fitness may be enabled in which users share and discuss their fitness progress along with advice on how to achieve different types of fitness goals. Additionally advertising opportunities may be enabled so that third parties may share their products to users of system . For example health products or fitness products may be advertised which are tailored to a user s needs ranging from organic foods to weight loss products depending on the goals of each user of system .

Turning to the next figure is a block diagram of system another exemplary embodiment of the present invention depicting components and sub components of the entire system. System is shown comprising multiple servers for handling fitness progress data and client devices from which a user may either provide or request fitness progress data. Furthermore system includes an advertisement communication module for implementing revenue opportunities through for example third party affiliates that advertise to interested users of system .

System comprises one or more centralized servers server system for storing fitness progress data that may be received from client devices such as client device or client device . Client device generally refers to one or more devices located in a venue or physical location where users can upload their fitness progress data including images of their current physique. Client device refers to one or more devices that have access to a graphical user interface such as mobile device applications or websites which are designed to provide users with access to their fitness progress data including platforms wherein users can share their fitness progress data with others.

Client device is adapted to facilitate the gathering of fitness progress data from a user such as client user . This means that client device typically includes the following components user interface processor scale image adjustment system camera fitness analysis tools lighting and an advertisement communication module display display . While it may be desirable to provide these components in a compact structure such as a compartment or booth see and for example similar to a photo booth other configurations may be implemented without deviating from the scope of the present invention. For example these components may be provided in a separate room sectioned off from the rest of a gym or a closed area that is designated for using a system in accordance with the present invention or simply a computer system for users to access their profile and update their most recent fitness progress data. In an exemplary embodiment client device is located in a gym and provides these components in a fitness booth such as the one disclosed with reference to . This configuration is desirable as it offers a private environment in which users may take their pictures and upload their personal information.

Client user may be a gym member utilizing a fitness booth to take one or more self images and record his current weight along with other information pertaining to his recent exercise routine. Client user interacts with the components offered via client device to either create a profile or update an existing profile with current fitness progress data. Whether via a booth a computer device in a separate room or at a designated section of a gym typically client user will be provided access to user interface .

User interface may provide client user with a graphical user interface GUI for guiding client user through the fitness progress data gathering and uploading process. Typically a touch screen may be provided through which a GUI will display instructions that request input of various user information. Of course other embodiments may be practice without deviating from the scope of the invention wherein regular screens rather than touch screens are utilized. User interface may communicate with various components of client device including processor scale camera s and image adjustment system . In alternative embodiments user interface may communicate with more or less components without deviating from the scope of the present invention. User interface brings the functionality of the several components of client device to client user .

Processor is typically a microprocessor that communicates with each component of client device . Processor processes and responds to task requests from each component of client device and is configured to communicate with server system via network interface . Typically processor receives information from components of client device and sends this information to server system for storing under a profile associated with the user providing the information. For example a user may step on scale the weight value registered by scale may be provided to processor which in turn sends the information for storing at server system . In some embodiments fitness progress data such as a user s weight one or more photos and a user s fat percentage may be first compiled by processor before being sent to server system for storage in the associated user profile. In alternative embodiments processor may simply send each data i.e. the weight each photo and the percentage of a user s body fat separately and directly to server system .

Scale communicates with processor to relay at least a user s weight to be displayed via user interface and uploaded to server system via network . Scale may be any type of scale that can be adapted to communicate with user interface and processor for routing weight values from users to server system .

Image adjustment system refers to the system which makes adjustments to maximize efficacy and clarity of user photos. Depending on the particular embodiment image adjustment system refers to a combination of tasks and or components which may adjust the camera s physical location settings pertaining to the focus or scope of the lens or both. Thus in one embodiment image adjustment system may comprise of components to physically adjust camera to the optimal position for capturing a user s picture. Alternatively image adjustment system may comprise of software for manipulating images in order to properly crop and edit images captured with camera .

Camera may be one or more cameras. In an exemplary embodiment camera uses a wide angle lens optimized for close range image capturing to better ensure the ability to take or capture full body photos of a fitness booth user such as client user . In any case camera may communicate with processor in order to be able to capture user photos and forward those photos or images either user interface or to server system via network or both.

Fitness analysis tools are typically one or more tools for carrying out an analysis such as a percentage of body fat calculation. This analysis may be computational and accomplished by algorithms that take into account user input data or may be determined by more complex versions of scale . Hence in some embodiments scale may comprise fitness analysis tools that provide a user with additional information such as body fat percentage while in other embodiments fitness analysis tools may encompass different components from scale which carry out similar calculations. These calculations may encompass body mass index calculations body fat percentage calculations changes of these values over a period of time or any other calculation that may provide a user with an indication of their progress in relation to their fitness goals. For example and without deviating from the scope of the present invention a user interested in losing weight might be interested in obtaining a value of weight lost over a period of time while a user interested in gaining weight may be interested in the weight they have gained over a specified period of time in addition to any change in their percentage of body fat. In some embodiments these calculations may be determined and obtained from components of client device which are in turn routed to server system for storing under a particular user s profile. In alternative embodiments these calculations may be performed at server system and client device merely provides the data required for making the desired determinations.

Lighting controls the lighting required to take proper images. Lighting may adjust to ambient light or options entered by a user by providing more or less light. Lighting may be automated or may be controlled via user interface . Lighting may thus be complex lighting fixtures or merely stand alone lamps that provide adequate light.

Display is a display for presenting information provided to client device from advertisement communication module . Display may display third party advertisements to client user or any other user in close proximity to display . Thus while other uses may be implemented such as providing venue information etc. via display the display may be reserved for advertisements regarding products or services that client user may have an interest in.

Network interface may be any known interface for communication via network . Network is typically a wide area network although in some embodiments network may be a local area network. Typically network interface is a wireless modem for connecting to network which comprises the internet.

Network serves as the bridge between client device client device and server system . For instance through network a fitness booth user may have their post workout photos taken at the gym and utilize client device to upload the images along with the user s weight and other pertinent fitness progress data to server system which may be made accessible immediately afterwards via client device .

Advertisement communication module is typically a third party server in communication with server system client device and client device via network . Advertisement communication module permits third party sponsors or advertisement affiliates to communicate with parts of or the entire fitness booth experience so as to dynamically generate and serve advertisements locally or remotely to users. Advertisement communication module may have advertisements displayed for instance on display mobile app or user web browser .

As explained above client device refers to any device with access to a graphical user interface such as a mobile device application or website designed to provide users with access to their fitness progress data including platforms wherein users can share their fitness progress data with others. Hence client user may access data previously uploaded to server system from client device by either using mobile app or website . For example in one embodiment client device permits a fitness booth user to access certain services associated with the fitness booth experience without actually being physically present at the fitness booth. Thus a user not at the fitness booth for example client user may be able to access fitness booth pictures weight data or any other type of fitness progress data through a remote device utilizing a mobile app or web browser for instance mobile app or website . The remote device may be a smartphone a laptop or a personal computer with mobile app or with access to website .

Mobile app may for example be a phone or tablet application downloaded through Apple s App Store . Accordingly mobile app may be downloaded through communication with a network such as network and used by client user outside client device . Client user may also access website to access his fitness progress data by logging in via an internet capable phone laptop tablet or desktop computer.

Website may comprise one or more web pages for displaying fitness progress data to a user. Website may include a variety of features such as forums chat rooms and various functionalities to view share and obtain information that may help users with their fitness goals.

Server system as mentioned above may comprise one or more servers. In one embodiment shown server system comprises REST server database server and web server . Server system functions as a system through which large amounts of data can be stored and subsequently communicated through network with network exemplarily being the internet.

REST server may serve as an intermediary between an information requesting party for instance a smart phone application and another server for instance database server . REST server serves as an alternative to directly exposing database server to network thus better protecting system security.

Moreover REST server may act as a funnel through which a substantial degree of information from the local fitness booth external networks third party partners and other servers can be transmitted uniformly. Thus small or large scale system updates for the different means of influencing a user s fitness tracking experience may possibly be achieved through a single update to REST server which may exemplarily impact smart phone apps websites and local fitness booth media alike.

Database server holds substantially all data pertaining to the fitness booth such as but not limited to user pictures profile information usage data or any other data. Web server requests fitness booth data from database server to provide web pages for a remote user such as client user accessing server system via client device .

Therefore client user may share recently uploaded images with client user by uploading recently taken pictures to server system i.e. uploading images to database server via network from client device . Client user may access this information from client device that is via accessing server system by either using mobile application or accessing website from his or her mobile device. Alternatively client user may simply upload new fitness progress data to server system and later view the information via client device . One goal of system is therefore to provide each user of system with a means of creating viewing and or sharing fitness progress data in order to aid each user in realizing their fitness goals.

Now turning to the next figure is a flowchart illustrating one method of tracking fitness progress in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. Method comprises several steps these steps are described in the following order however any other conceivable sequence of these steps may be practiced without deviating from the scope of the present invention.

Step comprises requesting and authenticating a user s session. This step may include obtaining user identification or login information. A user wishing to utilize client device or a fitness booth in accordance with the present invention may be immediately prompted to verify their account through the entering of a username and password. The username and password may be created the first time a user uses client device or by requiring a user to sign up via a website. In an exemplary embodiment initial account setup information comprises a user s username password and any other pertinent identifying information that may be required to create a user profile such as providing an email address etc. Other embodiments may be practiced wherein more or less information is initially requested. Once a user has created and logged into an account client device is ready for data collection starting with the data described in step .

In one embodiment step authentication further comprises actualizing a session in which server system is in communication with client device until the session is over. In another embodiment step authentication further comprises actualizing a session in which client device is not in communication with server system but is nevertheless ready for providing instructions and or receiving user input in order to later communicate the compiled data to server system . Hence a communication with server system may be established at step or at a later point in the process without deviating from the scope of the present invention.

In step instructions are provided for a user of a client device for example client device . These instructions may comprise of requesting the user to input information to state information or to comply with commands that guide the user to use the user interface of client device . In one embodiment instructions comprise of requesting or guiding the user to step on a scale of client device in order to read the user s weight. In another embodiment the user is requested to input his or her weight information via the user interface. In another embodiment the user is requested to step on a scale platform and face a camera of client device in order for the client device to capture an image of the user. In yet another embodiment the instructions include all of the above mentioned instructions in order to collect a variety of fitness progress data from the user.

Step comprises providing a user with instructional information for obtaining fitness progress data such as taking progress images. This may include but is not limited to aiding the user with timing pose lighting and number of photos. The user interface may provide a visual representation of the upcoming pose the user needs to emulate as well as a countdown timer. In an exemplary embodiment the user may stand on the scale for each of the possible photos in order for the system to capture the user s weight at the same time as the user s photos are being taken. In other embodiments the instructions for obtaining a user s weight may come after the user images have been captured.

Step typically comprises capturing one or more images after a countdown timer has terminated. The image may be captured using one or more cameras. Thereafter at step a determination may be made for example based on the user s settings and status whether the series of images has been completed. If not step is reinitiated and the user is given yet another set of instructions. For example the user may be provided another set of visual representations to emulate and presented with a countdown timer.

In an exemplary embodiment the series of photos is set at a fixed number comprising a default sample of poses. This may be desired for ensuring fast turnaround from one user to the next and simplifying the process of taking fitness photos as much as possible. The default sample may for instance be three photos and allow a user to complete an iteration of the fitness booth experience in less than a minute.

In another exemplary embodiment the series of photos is customizable wherein the user has control over how many photos are taken and in which poses. This may be desired to better personalize the fitness tracking experience and potentially provide a more robust complete set of photos for enhanced documentation.

In yet another exemplary embodiment the user may review the photos and choose to reshoot one or more of them before finalizing the series and submitting it. Additionally the user may then review or edit their profile.

If the series of images is complete another determination may be made in step . In step a determination may be made of whether any other fitness progress data may be provided by the user. For example other fitness progress data may include a weight of the user a height of the user an exercise routine the user has completed or any other fitness related data that can be tracked for purposes of evaluating progress the user is making towards their fitness goals. If no other fitness progress data will be provided by the user then in step an optional evaluation of the data obtained thus far may be performed in step . If other fitness progress data is available for the user to provide then in step fitness progress data may be received either via a user input or by receiving the information from a component of the client device for example a weight may be provided by a scale of the client device a height may be provided by a user input or any other pertinent data may be provided by any means.

Other pertinent data may be requested via instructions or may be provided by the user. For example and without deviating from the scope of the present invention the user s height may be recorded during the account creation phase i.e. this may be desirable if the user is an adult and there is no likely change in height of the user . In embodiments wherein height is not recorded during the account creation phase step may comprise instructions for obtaining both height and weight values. In one embodiment height may be taken regularly over the course of time a user utilizes client device i.e. this may be desirable if the user is a young individual and a change in the user s height is expected .

In an exemplary embodiment height may be manually inputted by the user. However in other embodiments a height value may be determined using the cameras present on the fitness booth s control panel. Due to the consistent distance from which the cameras will take photos of fitness booth users height may be estimated with a reasonable degree of accuracy. Again this may be advantageous for young users who are still growing and do not wish to manually measure their height frequently in order to get proper fitness analyses.

Weight may be recorded using an integrated scale configured to communicate with the user interface of the client device. Other information such as exercise routines that the user has completed may be provided via the user interface by the user.

Once there is no additional fitness progress data from the user in step an evaluation may be made for determining different information. This evaluation may be determined at a server such as server system or may be made by a client device such as client device or may be processed by a mobile device such as client device . For example and without deviating from the scope of the present invention the user s weight value and the user s height allows for a calculation of body mass index BMI in step if an evaluation of the data is desired. In an exemplary embodiment the scale is equipped to provide an estimate of the user s body fat percentage. This may be done using a technique known as bioelectrical impedance analysis BIA the specifics of which would be known or easily ascertainable for a person of ordinary skill in the art. Other techniques may be used in lieu of BIA without deviating from the scope of the present invention alternatively in other embodiments no such evaluation is performed and step is skipped in order to send the information to a server in step .

Step may comprise of sending the compiled information to a server. Fitness progress data such as photos weight fat percentage BMI and other compiled information may be sent from the client such as client device to a server for example server .

In step the information reaching the server may be stored in the server s database wherein the database comprises that user s profile. The user s profile may be updated with the new fitness progress data including but not limited to for example the most recent height weight BMI and set of progress images from the user. This information may be integrated into various other graphical visual and textual representations of fitness and progress to provide a more robust fitness tracking experience.

In step a request may be received from a client device requesting fitness progress data from a user. This step may comprise utilizing a graphical user interface to access personal and community profile information through internet capable devices such as but not limited to desktop computers laptops tablets or mobile phones. Such graphical user interfaces may take form of a website application program or other similar form. In an exemplary embodiment the graphical user interface is a website allowing a user to login through an internet capable device. In another exemplary embodiment the graphical user interface is an application such as one that might be purchased or downloaded from the Apple App Store .

In step after authenticating the user request for fitness progress data the database may be accessed and the data retrieved for the user. Once retrieved in step fitness progress data may be provided to the user for example via client device .

Now turning to the next figure is a flowchart illustrating one method of tracking fitness progress from a server in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. Method comprises several steps these steps are described in the following order however any other conceivable sequence of these steps may be practiced without deviating from the scope of the present invention.

In step the server may receive a request to initiate a new session. After receiving user identification and performing a security protocol to verify the user in step the session is authenticated. In step the server may receive fitness progress data from a client device such as client device . This information may include for example a user s weight a user s images other information such as a user s exercise routines and any other information that may be helpful for tracking a user s fitness progress. Once this information is communicated to the server in step the server stores this information updating a user s profile with the new fitness progress data.

In step a request may be received to retrieve fitness progress data from one or more users. This step may require another authentication and verification process in order to provide a user with the requested fitness progress data. In step the server may retrieve fitness progress data from its database wherein the fitness progress data is associated with the user. Alternatively depending on permissions granted to the user another user s fitness progress data may be made available to the requesting user. So long as permission is granted and user identification is verified in step the server may provide the user fitness progress data to the requesting entity for example client device .

Now turning to the next figure is a flowchart illustrating one method of tracking fitness progress from a client device in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. Method comprises several steps these steps are described in the following order however any other conceivable sequence of these steps may be practiced without deviating from the scope of the present invention.

In step a request for user identification information is made and received. This may include initially setting up a user profile or merely verifying and authenticating an existing user. In step instructions are presented in order to guide the user in providing any fitness progress data such as weight height and any other pertinent information. Additionally in step the user may be guided in order to capture one or more images of the user s physique. In step one or more images of the user may be captured. As mentioned above the user may be offered an opportunity to either update images or take additional images or choose from a selection of captured images before sending the images to the server. In step additional information may be added by the user for example the user may input exercise routines they have recently completed.

In step the client device may perform an evaluation of fitness progress data in order to for example calculate a BMI or any other information that may be helpful to the user. In alternative embodiments this evaluation or determination may be made by the server rather than by the client device or by a mobile device that is used to view the information hence the processing power to perform the analysis may rest at the server or at client devices.

Once all the desired information is received from the user and any evaluations or determinations by the client device are performed then in step the fitness progress data is sent to a server.

Now turning to the next figure is a flowchart illustrating one method of tracking fitness progress from a client device such as a mobile device or computer in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. Method comprises several steps these steps are described in the following order however any other conceivable sequence of these steps may be practiced without deviating from the scope of the present invention.

In step the client device for example a mobile device a laptop computer or desktop computer may establish a communication with a server such as server system . This may be achieved by means of a mobile application on a mobile device or by accessing a website from the client device. Upon establishing communication in step the user may provide user identification in order to receive authentication and permission to access the server.

In step once access to the server is granted the client device may send a request for fitness progress data associated with the user. Alternatively a request may be made for fitness progress data of other users depending on the permissions of the requesting user. In step the server has granted access and the client device receives the requested data. The fitness progress data may then be displayed on the client device.

After gaining access to a graphical user interface adapted to receive fitness progress data the user may be presented with a number of options aimed at maintaining and transplanting the post workout motivation surge to a location other than the gym such as a user s home. The user may be able to visually graphically and textually monitor fitness progress and share that progress with other fitness booth users and members of their social media circles.

With respect to sharing progress with other users a user has a myriad of options for choosing to what extent their profile is shared. For instance in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention users have the ability to set their profile to public faceless public and private. A public profile is entirely viewable by other users. The user s profile photo progress photos height weight BMI length of membership and other information pertaining to their fitness progress and goals are displayed. A faceless public profile is identical to a public profile except photos are not shared with the community. Lastly a private profile is not shared with the community in any appreciable manner.

With respect to sharing progress with members of a social circle a user has the option through the graphical user interface to publish aspects of or their entire profile with Twitter followers Facebook friends Instagram followers and the like. The user may choose to selectively or automatically share all progress or direct manual and automatic sharing differently depending on the social media outlet or the content of the post. Without limiting or deviating from the spirit or scope of the present invention the user may for example choose to automatically post graphical information of weight body fat percentage and BMI to Twitter automatically post graphical and photographical information to Facebook and post photos to Instagram on a case by case basis.

Fitness booth may have similar dimensionality to a photo booth or widened phone booth. Fitness booth may be located anywhere within or proximate to a gym for instance near the gym s exit and entrance in a corner or in a locker room. Alternatively fitness booth may be larger or smaller than a typical photo booth without limiting or deviating from the scope of the present invention.

Fitness booth may be constructed and outfitted with any number of materials. By way of a non limiting example fitness booth may comprise aluminum framing or any other type of metal. Without limiting or deviating from the spirit or scope of the present invention structural panels may comprise for example plexiglass frosted acrylic acrylic or nylon. Furthermore the entrance to fitness booth may be a door curtain or other means with which to provide privacy. If the entrance is a door the door may be in one embodiment comprised of nylon though other materials may be used in addition to or in lieu of nylon. Fitness booth may be covered by an enclosure allowing a user to have complete privacy while updating fitness progress. In an exemplary embodiment this enclosure may comprise plastic cloth or the like.

Scale is used to weigh the user and exemplarily calculate the user s BMI and body fat percentage. In an exemplary embodiment stepping on scale will immediately prompt an interactive display and timer countdown for taking progress photos assuming the user is logged in. Scale may be designed and integrated into fitness booth in a number of ways. In one embodiment scale is an elevated scale with ramps surrounding it from the front left and right sides. In this embodiment the rear of scale will comprise a platform flush with scale used to hide unsightly electrical wiring. In a separate embodiment the entire floor of fitness booth is elevated above the ground outside it wherein a cutout is made to allow scale to be installed flush with the rest of the floor.

Control panel comprises light panel light panel camera camera and user interface . Control panel contains a majority of the important features utilized in tracking fitness progress. These features are elaborated upon in .

Light panels provide the lighting for profile and progress photos and are important for maintaining consistency in photos amidst potentially unpredictable light within the gym. In embodiments wherein the entrance to fitness booth does not allow appreciable light to enter light panels illuminate the otherwise dim interior of fitness booth .

Cameras take the profile and progress photos for a fitness booth user in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. In a separate embodiment the number of cameras differs from two. For instance fitness booth may comprise a single camera with the ability to capture an entire body with a high level of detail. However with respect to cameras aid in taking detailed photos of particular sections of the body. For instance camera may take photos of the top half of a user s body whereas camera may take photos of the bottom half of a user s body. In such instances wherein a full body length photo is taken cameras may take overlapping photos in which the overlapping regions are visually resolved into a single segment and the photos are combined into a single flowing visual thereafter. This feature is similar to how a panoramic photo is achieved using multiple overlapping photos. Alternatively either camera or camera may be tasked in lieu of the other to take a full length or near full length photo. Other embodiments may exist which permit greater or fewer cameras to be implemented as a component of control panel or as a separate entity from control panel .

User interface provides the means for a user to initiate personalize visualize and complete their fitness booth experience. User interface is the interactive means within fitness booth which displays the login screen timers poses photo series and the like. In an exemplary embodiment user interface is a touch screen device. With respect to user interface resides below camera and above camera .

Vacancy indicator provides a visual indication of whether or not fitness booth is presently in use. Vacancy indicator resides on the outside of fitness booth so as to inform patrons not currently using fitness booth . In an exemplary embodiment vacancy indicator will have two buttons with one button indicating occupancy and the other button indicating vacancy. This indication may be publicized via a light emitting from the button corresponding to the present vacancy status. Vacancy indicator may receive vacancy statuses through a number of different means that would be known by a person of ordinary skill in the art.

Lastly in an exemplary embodiment fitness booth may comprise display which may be situated on the exterior of fitness booth . Display may be used for promotional purposes. For instance and without limiting or deviating from the spirit or scope of the present invention the screen may be used to promote the gym hosting the fitness booth or promote fitness related products sold or sponsored by the gym or any third party among any number of other purposes.

Light panels provide flash lighting for a user s photos. In an exemplary embodiment light panel and light panel each comprise at least one standard light and at least one flash. Light panel may be used to provide light to the lower half of a user s body whereas light panel may provide light to the upper half of a user s body. However undiffused light may be too strong for such photos. Therefore in another exemplary embodiment the light emanating from panels may be diffused using a milky plastic coating or other diffusive means present on panels so as to soften the light passing through them.

Cameras as pictured in may be mounted and fixed on control panel facing forward towards the user. In an exemplary embodiment camera and camera may both comprise single lens reflex cameras though other embodiments exist wherein this is not the case and different camera types or lenses are implemented. In an exemplary embodiment each camera within the present fitness booth is a wide angle lens camera.

User interface may be a touch screen tablet used as the means for receiving and requesting information from the fitness booth user. In one embodiment user interface has its bottom tilted approximately 15 degrees away from being parallel with the mounting face of control panel so as to ease user interaction with the screen.

Camera support may be any type of support permitting the motorized camera mount and camera to move vertically. This movement may be triggered upon a user logging in or entering a height value. In one embodiment receipt or retrieval of the user s height may cause camera through motorized camera mount of camera support to move to a particular vertical height based on that user s height. For instance a taller than average user may see camera adjusted higher than its default position. Conversely a shorter than average user may see camera adjusted lower than its default position.

Without limiting or deviating from the spirit or scope of the present invention the image adjustment system may either be incorporated into the fitness booth control panel depicted in wherein the camera support is a piece present in or on the control panel or may be incorporated as an entity adjoined to or separate from the control panel. In any case the image adjustment system may comprise one or more cameras with one or more motorized camera mounts which adjust based on the user s height value.

Additionally the image adjustment system may through the fitness booth s processor make adjustment to camera s lens so as to capture the desired region of the user s body. In an exemplary embodiment this lens is a wide angle lens which aids in capturing an entire user s body even from a close range.

GUI represents an exemplary embodiment of a graphical user interface such as one a user might encounter on a website or mobile device application pertaining to the present invention. However other such graphical user interfaces with different data presentation tabs and features may exist without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. Once the user logs in to the GUI source the presently illustrated configuration of data objects may result. For the purposes of simplicity let reference to GUI tabs also refer to the information represented in the tab s corresponding page. Thus in some embodiments each tab may direct users to a dedicated page for content pertaining to a particular topic.

Progress tab allows a user to view in depth fitness progress data related to their fitness progress and do so through a number of different formats. Several of these formats may utilize visual progress indicator . Formats may include but are not limited to images graphical documentation textual records and numerical data. Fitness progress data may include but is not limited to photos weight BMI body fat percentage height exercise routines exercise types calories burnt calorie intake dietary plans or any other data that a user may benefit from recording in the system. This data may be recorded at a fitness booth or later added via a website or application. At any time fitness progress data may be provided to the user for review.

For example all photos taken by any fitness booth can be extracted through a corresponding server s database perhaps the gym s database or a more centralized server and database. The user may sift through each of the photos by date taken weight BMI or any other similar categorical means. This may be done with all data compiled by a fitness booth or a graphical user interface.

Visual progress indicator may provide a visual metric of the fitness booth user s progress over time or provide the user s fitness progress data. For example visual progress indicator may display figures images graphical data pertaining to the user s physique weight changes over time or any other parameter of interest. For example and without limiting the scope of the present invention a user that has made use of the fitness booth for several months and who has lost a total of 40 pounds via exercise may access GUI and see visual progress indicator . In that case visual progress indicator may provide a one or more parameters that the user may be interested in tracking. For instance if at a starting period the user weighed 160 pounds but in a subsequent period the user weighed 120 pounds the user may be interested in tracking his weight and thus a graph depicting the change in weight may be displayed for his review. Similarly photos may be displayed that represent the records that user has recorded through that period. Thus an initial fitness tracking data object may comprise of a starting weight or starting photograph of the user and a current fitness tracking data object may comprise a current weight or current image of the user showing his new physique.

Advice tab is a means for users to get tips and advice on a myriad of fitness related topics for instance workout tips dietary suggestions and ideas for maximizing the fitness booth experience. This may come from fitness booth administrators workout gurus or any other fitness professionals.

Forum tab is a more personal interconnected application of the advice found in advice tab wherein fitness booth users can communicate and trade tips advice encouragement and fitness progress with one another. Forum tab serves as a means to further motivation beyond the actual fitness booth and corresponding gym and keep users upbeat and positive about the oft daunting task of maintaining a workout regimen and reaching fitness goals. Forum tab users may choose to follow one another s progress through following or friending the user within the forum.

Rate tab affords yet another source of motivation for fitness booth users wherein a user may rate how another user is progressing in their fitness goals. A user receiving an unsatisfactory rating from another user may become motivated to change that rating through longer more intense or more frequent fitness sessions at the gym or by altering other lifestyle choices pertaining to fitness and health.

Settings tab allows a user to alter account settings such as a username password email address privacy settings progress sharing or the like. Changing a username or password will in an exemplary embodiment automatically change the corresponding username or password for logging in at a fitness booth through communication with a centralized server.

Share icons provide a means whereby a user can manually select which social media outlets they wish to publish their progress to. With respect to share icons like visual progress indicator are components of progress tab . Thus share icons particularly refer to sharing visual progress indicator with social media circles. However if the user were viewing a separate page within progress tab the option to share progress through share icons may refer to the data presented on the corresponding page. The method with which this information is shared with the social media circle is dependent on the specific social media site though such methods would be known or easily ascertainable by a person of ordinary skill in the art.

A system and method for tracking fitness progress has been described. The foregoing description of the various exemplary embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and disclosure. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention not be limited by this detailed description but by the claims and the equivalents to the claims.

