---

title: Substituted 1-pyrrolidinyloxy, 1-piperidinyloxy and 1-azepanyloxy compounds for treating diseases associated with oxidative stress or endothelial dysfunction
abstract: 

The compounds are useful in prevention, treatment or management of diseases, disorders or conditions associated with oxidative stress or endothelial dysfunction. The compounds include 2,2,5,5,-tetramethyl-3-(nitrooxymethyl)pyrrolidin-1-yl acetate.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09604932&OS=09604932&RS=09604932
owner: Radikal Therapeutics Inc.
number: 09604932
owner_city: West Tisbury
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140305
---
This application is the U.S. National Phase of International Application No. PCT IB2014 059451 filed Mar. 5 2014 designating the U.S. and published as WO 2014 136059 on Sep. 12 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 772 861 filed Mar. 5 2013. Any and all applications for which a foreign or domestic priority claim is identified above and or in the Application Data Sheet as filed with the present application are hereby incorporated by reference under 37 CFR 1.57.

The present invention provides prodrugs of compounds comprising a nitric oxide donor and a reactive oxygen species ROS degradation catalyst and pharmaceutical compositions thereof.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 448 267 6 455 542 and 6 759 430 disclose inter alia 1 pyrrolidinyloxy 1 piperidinyloxy and 1 azepanyloxy derivatives comprising a nitric oxide donor and a O scavenger capable of acting as sources of nitric oxide and as ROS degradation catalysts their preparation and their use in the treatment of various conditions associated with oxidative stress or endothelial dysfunction such as diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular diseases.

International Publication No. WO 2012 093383 discloses methods and compositions for treatment of sepsis and conditions associated therewith using the compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 448 267 6 455 542 and 6 759 430 International Publication No. WO 2011 092690 discloses methods and compositions for prevention treatment or management of pulmonary arterial hypertension PAH using those compounds International Publication No. WO 2013 005216 discloses methods and compositions for prevention and treatment of renal ischemia reperfusion injury and International Publication No. WO 2013 190497 discloses methods and compositions for treatment of Clinhalational lung injury CILI . The entire contents of each and all these patents and patent publications being herewith incorporated by reference in their entirety as if fully disclosed herein.

As shown in International Publication No. WO 2013 005216 the compounds disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 448 267 6 455 542 and 6 759 430 in particular 3 nitratomethyl 2 2 5 5 tetramethylpyrrolidinyloxy herein identified R 100 that is specifically exemplified in the aforesaid International publications for treatment of sepsis PAH renal ischemia reperfusion injury and CILI are highly insoluble in water but are soluble in certain organic solvents such as dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO or alternatively when formulated as inclusion complexes with hydroxyalkylcyclodextrin such as hydroxypropylcyclodextrin HPCD . The inclusion of such organic solvents in pharmaceutical compositions is potentially toxic and is thus preferably avoided. HPCD is relatively well tolerated but must be admixed with R 100 in a ratio of 20 1 HPCD R 100 in order to fully dissolve said compound. The upper limit of safety for clinical administration of HPCD is unknown but the greatest amount approved for use in humans via an intravenous route is a daily quantity of 7 grams. Given the minimum usable ratio of 20 1 for the dissolution of R 100 and HPCD and the limit of 7 grams of HPCD per day the maximal amount of R 100 delivered in such an intravenous formulation would be 350 mg daily.

In order to overcome the limitations presented above prodrugs of R 100 e.g. 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxymethyl pyrrolidin 1 yl acetate herein identified R 107 have been prepared. As surprisingly found R 107 is stable oil until exposure to plasma after which it is readily converted to its corresponding 1 pyrrolidinyloxy derivative R 100. R 107 has a density of 1.12 mg ml and may be administered in either pure form or diluted e.g. in polyethyleneglycol PEG 400 via diverse routes including intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous and topical e.g. to the skin wounds ulcers oral cavity vagina and anal canal.

Reach independently is selected from H OH COR COOR OCOOR OCON R C C alkylene COOR CN NO SH SR C C alkyl O C C alkyl N R CON R SOR SONHR S O R or a nitric oxide donor group of the formula X X X wherein Xis absent or selected from O S or NH Xis absent or is C C alkylene optionally substituted by one or more ONOgroups and Xis NO or ONO provided that at least one Rgroup is a nitric oxide donor group 

Ris selected from C C alkyl C C cycloalkyl C C aryl or 4 12 membered heterocyclyl each of which may optionally be substituted with OH COR COOR C C alkylene COOR CN NO C C alkyl O C C alkyl N R CON R SOR SONHR or S O R 

Reach independently is selected from H C C alkyl C C cycloalkyl C C aryl or 4 12 membered heterocyclyl each of which other than H may optionally be substituted with OH COR COOR OCOOR OCON R C C alkylene COOR CN NO SH SR C C alkyl O C C alkyl N R CON R SOR SONHR or S O R 

Reach independently is selected from H C C alkyl C C cycloalkyl C C aryl or 4 12 membered heterocyclyl and

In another aspect the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the general formula I as defined above or an enantiomer diastereomer racemate or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The compounds and pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are useful for prevention treatment or management of a disease disorder or condition associated with oxidative stress or endothelial dysfunction.

In a further aspect the present invention relates to a compound of the general formula I as defined above or an enantiomer diastereomer racemate or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof for use in prevention treatment or management of a disease disorder or condition associated with oxidative stress or endothelial dysfunction.

In yet another aspect the present invention relates to use of a compound of the general formula I as defined above or an enantiomer diastereomer racemate or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for prevention treatment or management of a disease disorder or condition associated with oxidative stress or endothelial dysfunction.

In still another aspect the present invention relates to a method for prevention treatment or management of a disease disorder or condition associated with oxidative stress or endothelial dysfunction in an individual in need thereof comprising administering to said individual an effective amount of a compound of the general formula I as defined above or an enantiomer diastereomer racemate or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof.

In one aspect the present invention provides 1 pyrrolidinyl 1 piperidinyl and 1 azepanyl ester derivatives of the general formula I as defined above comprising one to four nitric oxide donor groups and a ROS degradation catalyst i.e. a superoxide anion O scavenger. The compounds of the present invention are in fact prodrugs for the corresponding hydroxylamine or N hydroxyl N OH compounds upon hydrolysis of the ester bond O C O R and those hydroxylamine compounds are then oxidized in vivo to their corresponding nitroxide derivatives more particularly 1 pyrrolidinyloxy 1 piperidinyloxy and 1 azepanyloxy derivatives disclosed in the aforesaid U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 448 267 6 455 542 and 6 759 430. The compounds of the present invention are thus expected to be effective in all those clinical indications wherein the aforesaid 1 pyrrolidinyloxy 1 piperidinyloxy and 1 azepanyloxy derivatives are of benefit.

The term alkyl as used herein typically means a straight or branched saturated hydrocarbon radical having 1 16 carbon atoms and includes e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl n pentyl isoamyl 2 2 dimethylpropyl n hexyl n heptyl n octyl n nonyl n decyl n undecyl n dodecyl n tridecyl n tetradecyl n pentadecyl n hexadecyl and the like. Preferred are C C alkyl groups more preferably C C alkyl groups most preferably methyl and ethyl. The terms alkenyl and alkynyl typically mean straight and branched hydrocarbon radicals having 2 16 carbon atoms and 1 double or triple bond respectively and include ethenyl propenyl 3 buten 1 yl 2 ethenylbutyl 3 octen 1 yl 3 nonenyl 3 decenyl and the like and propynyl 2 butyn 1 yl 3 pentyn 1 yl 3 hexynyl 3 octynyl 4 decynyl and the like. C Calkenyl and alkynyl radicals are preferred more preferably C Calkenyl and alkynyl.

The term alkylene typically means a divalent straight or branched hydrocarbon radical having 1 20 carbon atoms and includes e.g. methylene ethylene propylene butylene 2 methylpropylene pentylene 2 methylbutylene hexylene 2 methylpentylene 3 methylpentylene 2 3 dimethylbutylene heptylene octylene and the like. Preferred are C C alkylene more preferably C C alkylene most preferably C C alkylene.

The term cycloalkyl as used herein means a cyclic or bicyclic hydrocarbyl group having 3 10 carbon atoms such as cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl adamantyl bicyclo 3.2.1 octyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptyl and the like. Preferred are C C cycloalkyls more preferably C C cycloalkyls.

The term aryl denotes an aromatic carbocyclic group having 6 14 carbon atoms consisting of a single ring or multiple rings either condensed or linked by a covalent bond such as but not limited to phenyl naphthyl phenanthryl and biphenyl.

The term heterocyclic ring denotes a mono or poly cyclic non aromatic ring of 4 12 atoms containing at least one carbon atom and one to three heteroatoms selected from sulfur oxygen or nitrogen which may be saturated or unsaturated i.e. containing at least one unsaturated bond. Preferred are 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic rings. The term heterocyclyl as used herein refers to any univalent radical derived from a heterocyclic ring as defined herein by removal of hydrogen from any ring atom. Examples of such radicals include without limitation piperidino 4 morpholinyl or pyrrolidinyl.

The term nitric oxide donor group as defined herein refers to any group of the formula X X X wherein Xmay be absent or is selected from O S or NH Xmay be absent or is C C alkylene optionally substituted by one or more ONOgroups and Xis NO or ONO. Particular nitric oxide donor groups are those in which Xis absent or is O Xis absent or is C C alkylene preferably C C alkylene more preferably methylene Xis NO or ONO preferably ONO and said alkylene is optionally substituted as defined hereinabove. According to the invention the compound of the general formula I may comprise one nitric oxide donor group or more than one identical or different nitric oxide donor groups.

In certain embodiments the compound of the present invention is a compound of the general formula I wherein Reach independently is H COOR CON R or a nitric oxide donor group and Ris H.

In certain embodiments the compound of the present invention is a compound of the general formula I wherein Reach independently is C C alkyl preferably C C alkyl more preferably methyl or ethyl. In particular such embodiments the Rgroups are identical.

In certain embodiments the compound of the present invention is a compound of the general formula I wherein Ris C C alkyl preferably C C alkyl optionally substituted preferably at a terminal carbon atom with OH N R or COOR wherein Reach independently is C C alkyl preferably C C alkyl or H. In particular such embodiments Ris C C alkyl preferably C C alkyl C C alkylene OH preferably C C alkylene OH C C alkylene N R preferably C C alkylene N R or C C alkylene COOR preferably C C alkylene COOR.

In certain embodiments the compound of the present invention is a compound of the general formula I wherein in said nitric oxide donor group Xis absent or O Xis absent or C C alkylene preferably C C alkylene more preferably C C alkylene most preferably methylene Xis NO or ONO preferably ONO and said alkylene is optionally substituted by one or more ONOgroups.

In certain embodiments the compound of the present invention is a compound of the general formula I wherein Reach independently is H COOR CON R or a nitric oxide donor group Reach independently is C C alkyl preferably C C alkyl more preferably methyl or ethyl Ris C C alkyl preferably C C alkyl optionally substituted preferably at a terminal carbon atom with OH N R or COOR Ris H Reach independently is C C alkyl preferably C C alkyl or H and in said nitric oxide donor group Xis absent or O Xis absent or C C alkylene preferably C C alkylene more preferably C C alkylene most preferably methylene Xis NO or ONO preferably ONO and said alkylene is optionally substituted by one or more ONOgroups.

In certain embodiments the compound of the present invention is a compound of the general formula I wherein Rto Rand the nitric oxide donor group s each independently is selected from the options defined by any one of the embodiments above and n is 1 2 or 3 i.e. a 1 pyrrolidinyl ester derivative of the formula Ia 1 piperidinyl ester derivative of the formula Ib or 1 azepanyl ester derivative of the formula Ic see Table 1 .

In certain particular embodiments the compound of the present invention is a compound of the formula Ia in Table 1 wherein either the carbon atom at position 3 of the pyrrolidine ring or the carbon atom at position 4 of the pyrrolidine ring or both are each linked to a nitric oxide donor group. More particular such embodiments are those wherein each one of the nitric oxide donor groups independently is of the formula C C alkylene ONO preferably C C alkylene ONO more preferably CH ONO or O C C alkylene ONO wherein said alkylene is optionally substituted by one or more ONOgroups or is ONO.

In other particular embodiments the compound of the present invention is a compound of the formula Ib in Table 1 wherein one two or three of the carbon atoms at positions 3 to 5 of the piperidine ring are each linked to a nitric oxide donor group i.e. i the carbon atom at position 3 of the piperidine ring and optionally one or more of the carbon atoms at positions 4 or 5 of the piperidine ring are each linked to a nitric oxide donor group ii the carbon atom at position 4 of the piperidine ring and optionally one or more of the carbon atoms at positions 3 or 5 of the piperidine ring are each linked to a nitric oxide donor group or iii the carbon atom at position 5 of the piperidine ring and optionally one or more of the carbon atoms at positions 3 or 4 of the piperidine ring are each linked to a nitric oxide donor group. More particular such embodiments are those wherein each one of the nitric oxide donor groups independently is of the formula C C alkylene ONO preferably C C alkylene ONO more preferably CH ONO or O C C alkylene ONO wherein said alkylene is optionally substituted by one or more ONOgroups or is ONO.

In further particular embodiments the compound of the present invention is a compound of the formula Ic in Table 1 wherein one two three or four of the carbon atoms at positions 3 to 6 of the azepane ring are each linked to a nitric oxide donor group i.e. i the carbon atom at position 3 of the azepane ring and optionally one or more of the carbon atoms at positions 4 to 6 of the azepane ring are each linked to a nitric oxide donor group ii the carbon atom at position 4 of the azepane ring and optionally one or more of the carbon atoms at positions 3 5 or 6 of the azepane ring are each linked to a nitric oxide donor group iii the carbon atom at position 5 of the azepane ring and optionally one or more of the carbon atoms at positions 3 4 or 6 of the azepane ring are each linked to a nitric oxide donor group or iv the carbon atom at position 6 of the azepane ring and optionally one or more of the carbon atoms at positions 3 to 5 of the azepane ring are each linked to a nitric oxide donor group. More particular such embodiments are those wherein each one of the nitric oxide donor groups independently is of the formula C C alkylene ONO preferably C C alkylene ONO more preferably CH ONO or O C C alkylene ONO wherein said alkylene is optionally substituted by one or more ONOgroups or is ONO.

Specific compounds of the general formulas Ia Ib and Ic described herein in which each one of the Rgroups independently is either H or the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO and Ris methyl ethyl or isopropyl are herein identified compounds 1ato 15ain bold compound 1ais also identified R 107 and their full chemical structures are depicted in Table 2. Similar compounds in which each one of the nitric oxide donor groups is ONOrather than CH ONOare herein identified compounds 1bto 15bin bold. Other specific compounds of the general formulas Ia and Ib described herein in which one Rgroup is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO another Rgroup is not H and Ris methyl ethyl or isopropyl are herein identified compounds 16aand 17ain bold and their full chemical structures are depicted in Table 3. Similar compounds in which the nitric oxide donor group is ONOrather than CH ONOare herein identified compounds 16band 17bin bold. Further specific compounds of the general formula Ib described herein in which one Rgroup is the nitric oxide donor group O CH CH ONO CH ONO the other Rgroups are H and Ris methyl ethyl or isopropyl are herein identified compounds 18in bold and their full chemical structure is depicted in Table 3.

In specific embodiments the compound of the invention is the compound of formula Ia i.e. a compound of the general formula I in which n is 1 wherein Reach is methyl Ris methyl ethyl or isopropyl and i the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 3 of the pyrrolidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO and the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 4 of the pyrrolidine ring is H i.e. 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxymethyl pyrrolidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxymethyl pyrrolidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxymethyl pyrrolidin 1 yl isobutyrate compounds 1a 1aand 1a respectively i the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 3 of the pyrrolidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group ONO and the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 4 of the pyrrolidine ring is H i.e. 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxy pyrrolidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxy pyrrolidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxy pyrrolidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 1b 1band 1b respectively iii each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 and 4 of the pyrrolidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO i.e. 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxymethyl pyrrolidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxymethyl pyrrolidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxymethyl pyrrolidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 2a 2aand 2a respectively or iv each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 and 4 of the pyrrolidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group ONO i.e. 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxy pyrrolidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxy pyrrolidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxy pyrrolidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 2b 2band 2 respectively .

In other specific embodiments the compound of the invention is the compound of formula Ib i.e. a compound of the general formula I wherein n is 2 wherein Reach is methyl Ris methyl ethyl or isopropyl and i the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 3 of the piperidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO and each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 4 and 5 of the piperidine ring is H i.e. 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxymethyl piperidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxymethyl piperidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxymethyl piperidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 3a 3aand 3a respectively ii the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 3 of the piperidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group ONO and each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 4 and 5 of the piperidine ring is H i.e. 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxy piperidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxy piperidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxy piperidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 3b 3band 3b respectively iii the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 4 of the piperidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO and each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 and 5 of the piperidine ring is H i.e. 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 4 nitrooxymethyl piperidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 4 nitrooxymethyl piperidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 4 nitrooxymethyl piperidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 4a 4aand 4a respectively iv the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 4 of the piperidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group ONO and each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 and 5 of the piperidine ring is H i.e. 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 4 nitrooxy piperidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 4 nitrooxy piperidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 4 nitrooxy piperidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 4b 4band 4b respectively v each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 and 4 of the piperidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO and the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 5 of the piperidine ring is H i.e. 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxymethyl piperidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxymethyl piperidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxymethyl piperidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 5a 5aand 5a respectively vi each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 and 4 of the piperidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group ONO and the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 5 of the piperidine ring is H i.e. 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxy piperidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxy piperidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxy piperidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 5b 5band 5b respectively vii each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 and 5 of the piperidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO and the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 4 of the piperidine ring is H i.e. 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 5 bis nitrooxymethyl piperidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 5 bis nitrooxymethyl piperidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 5 bis nitrooxymethyl piperidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 6a 6aand 6a respectively viii each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 and 5 of the piperidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group ONO and the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 4 of the piperidine ring is H i.e. 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 5 bis nitrooxy piperidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 5 bis nitrooxy piperidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 5 bis nitrooxy piperidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 6b 6band 6b respectively ix each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 to 5 of the piperidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO i.e. 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 4 5 tris nitrooxymethyl piperidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 4 5 tris nitrooxymethyl piperidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 4 5 tris nitrooxymethyl piperidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 7a 7aand 7a respectively or x each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 to 5 of the piperidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group ONO i.e. 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 4 5 tris nitrooxy piperidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 4 5 tris nitrooxy piperidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 4 5 tris nitrooxy piperidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 7b 7band 7b respectively .

In further specific embodiments the compound used according to the method of the invention is the compound of formula Ic i.e. a compound of the general formula I wherein n is 3 wherein Reach is methyl Ris methyl ethyl or isopropyl and i the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 3 of the azepane ring is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO and each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 4 to 6 of the azepane ring is H i.e. 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl acetate 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl propionate and 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 8a 8aand 8a respectively ii the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 3 of the azepane ring is the nitric oxide donor group ONO and each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 4 to 6 of the azepane ring is H i.e. 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxy azepan 1 yl acetate 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxy azepan 1 yl propionate and 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxy azepan 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 8b 8band 8b respectively iii the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 4 of the azepane ring is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO and each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at position 3 5 and 6 of the azepane ring is H i.e. 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 4 nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl acetate 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 4 nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl propionate and 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 4 nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 9a 9aand 9a respectively iv the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 4 of the azepane ring is the nitric oxide donor group ONO and each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at position 3 5 and 6 of the azepane ring is H i.e. 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 4 nitrooxy azepan 1 yl acetate 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 4 nitrooxy azepan 1 yl propionate and 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 4 nitrooxy azepan 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 9b 9band 9b respectively v each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 and 4 of the azepane ring is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO and each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 of the azepane ring is H i.e. 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl acetate 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl propionate and 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 10a 10aand 10a respectively vi each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 and 4 of the azepane ring is the nitric oxide donor group ONO and each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 5 and 6 of the azepane ring is H i.e. 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxy azepan 1 yl acetate 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxy azepan 1 yl propionate and 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 bis nitrooxy azepan 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 10b 10band 10b respectively vii each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 and 5 of the azepane ring is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO and each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 4 and 6 of the azepane ring is H i.e. 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 5 bis nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl acetate 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 5 bis nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl propionate and 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 5 bis nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 11a 11aand 11a respectively viii each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 and 5 of the azepane ring is the nitric oxide donor group ONO and each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 4 and 6 of the azepane ring is H i.e. 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 5 bis nitrooxy azepan 1 yl acetate 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 5 bis nitrooxy azepan 1 yl propionate and 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 5 bis nitrooxy azepan 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 11b 11band 11b respectively ix each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 and 6 of the azepane ring is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO and each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 4 and 5 of the azepane ring is H i.e. 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 6 bis nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl acetate 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 6 bis nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl propionate and 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 6 bis nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 12a 12aand 12a respectively x each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 and 6 of the azepane ring is the nitric oxide donor group ONO and each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 4 and 5 of the azepane ring is H i.e. 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 6 bis nitrooxy azepan 1 yl acetate 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 6 bis nitrooxy azepan 1 yl propionate and 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 6 bis nitrooxy azepan 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 12b 12band 12b respectively xi each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 to 5 of the azepane ring is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO and the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 6 of the azepane ring is H i.e. 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 5 tris nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl acetate 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 5 tris nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl propionate and 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 5 tris nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 13a 13aand 13a respectively xii each one of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 to 5 of the azepane ring is the nitric oxide donor group ONO and the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 6 of the azepane ring is H i.e. 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 5 tris nitrooxy azepan 1 yl acetate 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 5 tris nitrooxy azepan 1 yl propionate and 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 5 tris nitrooxy azepan 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 13b 13band 13b respectively xiii each of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 4 and 6 of the azepane ring is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO and the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 5 of the azepane ring is H i.e. 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 6 tris nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl acetate 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 6 tris nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl propionate and 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 6 tris nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 14a 14aand 14a respectively xiv each of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 4 and 6 of the azepane ring is the nitric oxide donor group ONO and the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 5 of the azepane ring is H i.e. 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 6 tris nitrooxy azepan 1 yl acetate 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 6 tris nitrooxy azepan 1 yl propionate and 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 6 tris nitrooxy azepan 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 14b 14band 14b respectively xv each of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 to 6 of the azepane ring is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO i.e. 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 5 6 tetrakis nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl acetate 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 5 6 tetrakis nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl propionate and 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 5 6 tetrakis nitrooxymethyl azepan 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 15a 15aand 15a respectively or xvi each of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 to 6 of the azepane ring is the nitric oxide donor group ONO i.e. 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 5 6 tetrakis nitrooxy azepan 1 yl acetate 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 5 6 tetrakis nitrooxy azepan 1 yl propionate and 2 2 7 7 tetramethyl 3 4 5 6 tetrakis nitrooxy azepan 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 15b 15band 15b respectively .

In still other specific embodiments the compound of the invention is the compound of formula Ia wherein Reach is methyl Ris methyl ethyl or isopropyl and i the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 3 of the pyrrolidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO and the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 4 of the pyrrolidine ring is CONH i.e. 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxymethyl 4 carbamoyl pyrrolidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxymethyl 4 carbamoyl pyrrolidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxymethyl 4 carbamoyl pyrrolidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 16a 16aand 16a respectively or ii the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 3 of the pyrrolidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group ONO and the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 4 of the pyrrolidine ring is CONH i.e. 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxy 4 carbamoyl pyrrolidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxy 4 carbamoyl pyrrolidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxy 4 carbamoyl pyrrolidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 16b 16band 16b respectively .

In yet other specific embodiments the compound of the invention is the compound of formula Ib wherein Reach is methyl Ris methyl ethyl or isopropyl and i the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 3 of the piperidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group CH ONO the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 4 of the piperidine ring is COOH and the Rgroup linked to the carbon atoms at position 5 of the piperidine ring is H i.e. 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxymethyl 4 carboxy piperidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxymethyl 4 carboxy piperidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxymethyl 4 carboxy piperidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 17a 17aand 17a respectively or ii the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 3 of the piperidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group ONO the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 4 of the piperidine ring is COOH and the Rgroup linked to the carbon atoms at position 5 of the piperidine ring is H i.e. 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxy 4 carboxy piperidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxy 4 carboxy piperidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxy 4 carboxy piperidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 17b 17band 17b respectively .

In still a further specific embodiment the compound of the invention is the compound of formula Ib wherein Reach is methyl Ris methyl ethyl or isopropyl the Rgroup linked to the carbon atom at position 4 of the piperidine ring is the nitric oxide donor group O CH CH ONO CH ONO and each of the Rgroups linked to the carbon atoms at positions 3 and 5 of the piperidine ring is H i.e. 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 4 2 3 bis nitrooxy propyloxy piperidin 1 yl acetate 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 4 2 3 bis nitrooxy propyloxy piperidin 1 yl propionate and 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 4 2 3 bis nitrooxy propyloxy piperidin 1 yl isobutyrate herein identified compounds 18 18and 18 respectively .

The compounds of the present invention may be synthesized according to any technology or procedure known in the art e.g. as described with respect to compounds 1a 1aand 1ain the Examples section hereinafter.

The compounds of the general formula I may have one or more asymmetric centers and may accordingly exist both as enantiomers i.e. optical isomers R S or racemate wherein a certain enantiomer may have an optical purity of 90 95 99 or more and as diastereoisomers. Specifically those chiral centers may be e.g. in each one of the carbon atoms of the 1 pyrrolidinyl ester derivative 1 piperidinyl ester derivative and 1 azepanyl ester derivative of the general formulas Ia Ib and Ic respectively. It should be understood that the present invention encompasses all such enantiomers isomers and mixtures thereof as well as pharmaceutically acceptable salts and solvates thereof.

Optically active forms of the compounds of the general formula I may be prepared using any method known in the art e.g. by resolution of the racemic form by recrystallization techniques by chiral synthesis by extraction with chiral solvents or by chromatographic separation using a chiral stationary phase. A non limiting example of a method for obtaining optically active materials is transport across chiral membranes i.e. a technique whereby a racemate is placed in contact with a thin membrane barrier the concentration or pressure differential causes preferential transport across the membrane barrier and separation occurs as a result of the non racemic chiral nature of the membrane that allows only one enantiomer of the racemate to pass through. Chiral chromatography including simulated moving bed chromatography can also be used. A wide variety of chiral stationary phases are commercially available.

The compounds of the present invention are prodrugs of the corresponding 1 pyrrolidinyloxy 1 piperidinyloxy and 1 azepanyloxy derivatives disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 448 267 6 455 542 and 6 759 430 and are thus expected to be effective in all those clinical indications wherein those compounds are of benefit i.e. in the prevention treatment or management of any condition associated with oxidative stress or endothelial dysfunction. Such conditions include without being limited to retinal ischemia reperfusion injury acute anterior ischemic optic neuropathy central retinal artery occlusion hemolytic diseases including spherocytosis G6PD deficiency sickle cell disease thalassemias and paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria diabetes mellitus including diabetic wounds and diabetic retinopathy nephropathy and cardiovascular disease cardiovascular diseases such as ischemic heart disease angina pectoris myocardial ischemia reperfusion injury and infarction acute and chronic limb ischemia reperfusion injury congestive heart failure CHF atherosclerosis peripheral arterial hypertension cardiac arrhythmias idiopathic pulmonary hypertension pulmonary hypertension associated with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis pulmonary hypertension associated with hemolytic disease primary pulmonary hypertension of the newborn pulmonary hypertension secondary to congenital diaphragmatic hernia and meconium aspiration pulmonary hypertension secondary to congenital heart disease pulmonary hypertension secondary to mitral regurgitation atrial or ventricular septal defect contrast induced nephropathy asthma trauma hypovolemic neurogenic or septic shock idiopathic erectile dysfunction erectile dysfunction secondary to radical nerve sparing prostatectomy toxicant induced inhalational lung injury chlorine inhalational lung injury neurotoxicity neurodegenerative and neurological disorders including Alzheimer and Parkinson s diseases amyotrophic lateral sclerosis multiple sclerosis convulsive seizure disorders AIDS dementia and disorders which involve processes of learning and memory glaucoma and intraocular hypertension disorders of gastric secretions relaxation and peristalsis of the intestinal tract including sphincters drug and disease induced nephropathies pathological premature and physiological uterine contractions cellular defense impairment endothelial dysfunction induced diseases insulin resistance in diabetes pregnancy induced hypertension cerebrovascular diseases aggregation disorders and female sexual dysfunction including vaginal dryness.

The compounds of the present invention allow for more concentrated liquid delivery of the compounds to which they are converted under physiological conditions as particularly shown with respect to R 107 that is upon exposure to plasma converted to R 100 Example 4 hereinafter . The possibility of delivering smaller volume of the latter may be advantageous in those clinical scenarios where the volume of administration is limiting e.g. CHF intramuscular and subcutaneous injections and all topical applications. As further found while reducing the present invention into practice the compounds of the present invention are converted to and release their corresponding 1 pyrrolidinyloxy 1 piperidinyloxy and 1 azepanyloxy derivatives over a defined period of time in biological solutions and tissues. As such these compounds thereby provide a sustained release of their corresponding 1 pyrrolidinyloxy 1 piperidinyloxy and 1 azepanyloxy derivatives that is reflected in a lower Cmax in the blood. This may be advantageous in those settings where rapid administration of the latter is undesirable and a sustained release is preferred.

In another aspect the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of the general formula I as defined above or an enantiomer diastereomer racemate or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof herein also identified as the active agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Particular such pharmaceutical compositions comprise as an active agent a compound selected from the compounds of Tables 2 3 above e.g. compound 1a 1aor 1a or an enantiomer diastereomer racemate or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are useful for prevention treatment or management of a disease disorder or condition associated with oxidative stress or endothelial dysfunction.

WO 2012 093383 discloses methods and compositions for treatment of sepsis and conditions associated therewith using the 1 pyrrolidinyloxy 1 piperidinyloxy and 1 azepanyloxy derivatives disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 448 267 6 455 542 and 6 759 430 while particularly exemplifying R 100. Examples 5 and 6 hereinafter describe protocols showing the efficacy of R 107 as a therapeutic agent in mice exposed to a lethal dose of lipopolysaccharide LPS and on pulmonary function in sheep suffering from induced septic pneumonia.

In certain embodiments the pharmaceutical composition of the invention is thus used for treatment of sepsis particularly caused by microorganisms or products thereof and conditions associated therewith. The sepsis may be caused by Gram negative bacteria e.g. species species species species species species and species Gram positive cocci e.g. species species species and species certain fungi and yeast species Plasmodial species species or viruses or Gram positive bacterial toxins including toxic shock syndrome toxins. In particular such embodiments treatment with the compounds or pharmaceutical compositions of the invention is aimed at inhibiting development of sepsis related coagulopathy.

The term treatment as used herein with respect to sepsis and conditions associated therewith refers to administration of an active agent after the onset of symptoms of sepsis regardless of the cause for that medical condition. According to the invention administration of said active agent for treatment of sepsis and conditions associated therewith is aimed at inhibiting i.e. limiting or reducing medical conditions resulting from the systemic infection most particularly pulmonary arterial hypertension pulmonary shunt and loss of pulmonary compliance and in certain cases also development of sepsis related coagulopathy.

WO 2011 092690 discloses methods and compositions for prevention treatment or management of PAH using the 1 pyrrolidinyloxy 1 piperidinyloxy and 1 azepanyloxy derivatives disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 448 267 6 455 542 and 6 759 430 while particularly exemplifying R 100. Examples 7 9 hereinafter describe protocols showing the efficacy of R 107 as a therapeutic agent in a rat model of PAH and on monocrotaline MCT induced pulmonary vascular remodeling a lamb model of pulmonary hypertension of the newborn and a minipig model of peripheral hypertension respectively.

In certain embodiments the pharmaceutical composition of the invention is thus used for prevention treatment or management of PH particularly PAH PH associated with a left heart disease PH associated with a lung disease and or hypoxemia or PH due to a chronic thrombotic and or embolic disease. The pharmaceutical composition of the invention can be used for treatment any form of PH including but not limited to mild i.e. associated with an increase of up to 30 more particularly 20 30 mmHg in mean pulmonary arterial pressure MPAP at rest moderate i.e. associated with an increase of 30 39 mmHg in MPAP at rest and severe i.e. associated with an increase of 40 mmHg or more in MPAP at rest.

The PAH may be idiopathic PAH familial PAH PAH associated with collagen vascular disease PAH associated with congenital heart disorders PAH associated with HIV infection PAH associated with venous or capillary diseases PAH associated with thyroid disorders glycogen storage disease Gaucher s disease hemoglobinopathies or myeloproliferative disorders PAH associated with either smoke inhalation or combined smoke inhalation and burn injury PAH associated with aspiration PAH associated with ventilator injury PAH associated with pneumonia PAH associated with Adult Respiratory Distress Syndrome persistent PH of the newborn neonatal respiratory distress syndrome of prematurity neonatal meconium aspiration neonatal diaphragmatic hernia pulmonary capillary hemangiomatosis or pulmonary veno occlusive disease. The left heart disease may be a left sided atrial or ventricular disease or a valvular disease. The lung disease may be chronic obstructive pulmonary disease an interstitial lung disease sleep disordered breathing an alveolar hypoventilation disorder chronic exposure to high altitude or a developmental lung abnormality. The chronic thrombotic and or embolic disease may be thromboembolic obstruction of distal or proximal pulmonary arteries or a non thrombotic pulmonary embolism of e.g. tumor cells or parasites.

Many of the diseases disorders and conditions listed above can be associated with increased risk for PH wherein particular examples include congenital heart disease e.g. Eisenmenger syndrome left heart disease pulmonary venous disease e.g. fibrosis tissue narrowing or occluding pulmonary veins and venules pulmonary arterial disease diseases causing alveolar hypoxia fibrotic lung diseases Williams syndrome subjects with intravenous drug abuse injury pulmonary vasculitis such as Wegener s Goodpasture s and Churg Strauss syndromes emphysema chronic bronchitis kyphoscoliosis cystic fibrosis obesity hyper ventilation and sleep apnea disorders pulmonary fibrosis sarcoidosis silocosis CREST calcinosis cutis Raynaud phenomenon esophageal motility disorder sclerodactyly and teleangiectasia and other connective tissue diseases. For example a subject who possesses a bone morphogenetic protein receptor E BMPR2 mutation has a 10 20 lifetime risk of acquiring FPAH and subjects with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasa particularly those carrying mutations in ALK1 were also identified as being at risk for IPAH. Risk factors and diagnostic criteria for PH are described in McGoon et al. 2004 126 14S 34S.

The terms treatment and prevention as used herein with respect to PH refer to administration of an active agent after the onset of symptoms of PH in any of its forms or prior to the onset of symptoms particularly to patients at risk for PH respectively. The term management as used herein with respect to PH refers to prevention of recurrence of PH in a patient previously suffered from PH.

WO 2013 005216 discloses methods and compositions for prevention and treatment of renal ischemia reperfusion injury using the 1 pyrrolidinyloxy 1 piperidinyloxy and 1 azepanyloxy derivatives disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 448 267 6 455 542 and 6 759 430 while particularly exemplifying R 100. Example 10 hereinafter describes a protocol showing the efficacy of R 107 as a therapeutic agent in a rat model of renal ischemia reperfusion injury. In certain embodiments the pharmaceutical composition of the invention is thus used for prevention or treatment of renal ischemia reperfusion injury.

The term renal ischemia refers to a deficiency of blood flow in one or both kidneys or nephrons usually due to functional constriction or actual obstruction of a blood vessel or surgical removal of the kidney. Renal ischemia may result from various medical conditions including without being limited to hemorrhagic shock septic shock asphyxia also known as asphyxiation cardiac arrest also known as cardiopulmonary arrest or circulatory arrest respiratory arrest respiratory failure cardiogenic shock aortic aneurysm aortic aneurysm surgery hypotension dehydration spinal shock trauma cadaveric renal transplantation living related donor renal transplantation liver transplantation a liver disease drug induced renal ischemia hydronephrosis urethral obstruction cardiopulmonary bypass surgery radiocontrast administration endovascular renal artery catheterization renovascular stenosis renal artery thrombosis ureteral obstruction hypoxia and hypoxemia. The term renal ischemia reperfusion injury refers to the damage caused to the kidney s when blood supply returns to the tissue after a period of renal ischemia. Renal ischemia reperfusion injury is characterized by renal dysfunction and tubular damages and considered as a major cause of acute renal failure that may also be involved in the development and progression of some forms of chronic kidney disease.

In general the absence of oxygen and nutrients from blood during the ischemic period creates a condition in which the restoration of circulation results in inflammation and oxidative damage through the induction of oxidative stress rather than restoration of normal function.

The term treatment as used herein with respect to renal ischemia reperfusion injury refers to administration of an active agent after the onset of symptoms of renal ischemia reperfusion injury i.e. after blood supply to the ischemic tissue has been renewed regardless of the cause for the renal ischemia. The term prevention as used herein with respect to renal ischemia reperfusion injury refers to administration of said active agent prior to the onset of symptoms i.e. either prior to the onset of renal ischemia or following the onset of renal ischemia but prior to reperfusion and it is mainly relevant in cases wherein the renal ischemia and or reperfusion is are associated with a surgical intervention e.g. with aortic aneurysm surgery cadaveric renal transplantation living related donor renal transplantation liver transplantation cardiopulmonary bypass surgery or endovascular renal artery catheterization. According to the invention administration of said active agent either for treatment or prevention of renal ischemia reperfusion injury is aimed at inhibiting i.e. limiting or reducing renal dysfunction PMN infiltration into the renal parenchyma and histological damage i.e. tubular necrosis.

Examples 11 12 hereinafter describe protocols showing the efficacy of R 107 as a therapeutic agent in murine and porcine models of retinal ischemia reperfusion injury. In certain embodiments the pharmaceutical composition of the invention is thus used for treatment of retinal ischemia reperfusion injury.

The term retinal ischemia refers to those conditions wherein the blood supply to the retinal cells is impaired resulting in a deficiency of oxygenation to retinal tissue. The term retinal ischemia reperfusion injury refers to those conditions in which retinal ischemia is followed by improved blood flow so called reperfusion which thus increases oxidant formation and consequently induces tissue injury.

The term treatment as used herein with respect to retinal ischemia reperfusion injury refers to administration of an active agent after the onset of symptoms of retinal ischemia reperfusion injury i.e. after blood supply to the ischemic tissue has been renewed regardless of the cause for the retinal ischemia. According to the invention administration of said active agent for treatment of retinal ischemia reperfusion injury is aimed at inhibiting i.e. limiting or reducing the extent of retinal damage and ultimately loss of vision.

Example 13 hereinafter describes a protocol showing the efficacy of R 107 as a therapeutic agent in a rat model of myocardial ischemia reperfusion injury. In certain embodiments the pharmaceutical composition of the invention is thus used for prevention or treatment of myocardial ischemia reperfusion injury.

The term myocardial ischemia refers to those conditions in which there is a mismatch of oxygen supply and demand in the myocardium. The term myocardial ischemia reperfusion injury refers to those settings where revascularization of an ischemic region of the heart is accompanied by an increased flux of free radicals and the subsequent evolution of myocardial tissue damage.

The term treatment as used herein with respect to myocardial ischemia reperfusion injury refers to administration of an active agent after the onset of symptoms of myocardial ischemia reperfusion injury i.e. after blood supply to the ischemic tissue has been renewed regardless of the cause for the myocardial ischemia. The term prevention as used herein with respect to myocardial ischemia reperfusion injury refers to administration of said active agent prior to the onset of symptoms i.e. either prior to the onset of myocardial ischemia or following the onset of myocardial ischemia but prior to reperfusion and it is mainly relevant in cases wherein an acute therapeutic revascularization event is undertaken such as angioplasty or thrombolysis. According to the invention administration of said active agent either for treatment or prevention of myocardial ischemia reperfusion injury is aimed at inhibiting i.e. limiting or reducing the extent of devitalized myocardium and the appearance of arrhythmias.

Example 14 hereinafter describes a protocol showing the efficacy of R 107 as a therapeutic agent in a minipig model of acute limb ischemia reperfusion injury. In certain embodiments the pharmaceutical composition of the invention is thus used for prevention or treatment of limb ischemia reperfusion injury.

The term limb ischemia refers to a mismatch in the supply and demand of oxygen to an extremity. The term limb ischemia reperfusion injury refers to the injury resulting from an acute restoration of blood flow to a previously ischemic extremity.

The term treatment as used herein with respect to limb ischemia reperfusion injury refers to administration of an active agent after the onset of symptoms of limb ischemia reperfusion injury i.e. after blood supply to the ischemic tissue has been renewed regardless of the cause for the limb ischemia. The term prevention as used herein with respect to limb ischemia reperfusion injury refers to administration of said active agent prior to the onset of symptoms i.e. either prior to the onset of limb ischemia or following the onset of limb ischemia but prior to reperfusion and it is mainly relevant in cases wherein restoration of blood flow to the affected limb takes place within 6 12 hours of acute ischemia. According to the invention administration of said active agent either for treatment or prevention of limb ischemia reperfusion injury is aimed at inhibiting i.e. limiting or reducing muscle damage muscle weakness limb necrosis and gangrene limb amputation myoglobinuria renal failure compartment syndrome hyperkalemia acute respiratory distress syndrome and circulatory shock.

Example 15 hereinafter describes a protocol showing the efficacy of R 107 as a therapeutic agent in a rat model of contrast induced nephropathy. In certain embodiments the pharmaceutical composition of the invention is thus used for prevention or treatment of contrast induced nephropathy.

The term contrast induced nephropathy refers to the impairment of renal morphology and function resulting from the acute administration of a radio opaque dye for purposes of angiography with said nephropathy typically occurring in the setting of underlying renal disease as reflected by a reduced glomerular filtration rate and tubular function and elevated serum blood urea nitrogen BUN and or creatinine.

The terms treatment and prevention as used herein with respect to contrast induced nephropathy refer to administration of an active agent after the onset of symptoms of contrast induced nephropathy or prior to the onset of symptoms respectively. According to the invention administration of said active agent either for treatment or prevention of contrast induced nephropathy is aimed at ensuring the vitality of the kidney as reflected by morphologic assessment and functional measures of glomerular filtration and tubular behavior such as serum BUN and creatinine.

WO 2013 190497 discloses methods and compositions for treatment of CILI using inter alia the 1 pyrrolidinyloxy 1 piperidinyloxy and 1 azepanyloxy derivatives disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 448 267 6 455 542 and 6 759 430 while particularly exemplifying R 100. Example 16 hereinafter shows the efficacy of R 107 as a therapeutic agent in a murine Clexposure model.

In certain embodiments the pharmaceutical composition of the invention is thus used for treatment of an inflammatory disease of the lung caused by inhalation of a toxic agent or an irritant. In one particular such embodiment the toxic agent is Cl and the pharmaceutical composition is used for treatment of CILI. In another particular such embodiments the toxic agent is the chemical warfare agent phosgene or diphosgene or the irritant is smoke.

The term treatment as used herein with respect to an inflammatory diseases of the lung caused by inhalation of a toxic agent or an irritant refers to administration of an active agent after exposure to said toxic agent or irritant and following the onset of symptoms of said inflammatory disease so as to ameliorate the effects of said toxic agent or irritant on the lungs. According to the invention administration of said active agent for treatment of CILI is aimed at reducing pulmonary edema and pulmonary shunt diminishing PMN infiltration into the lung parenchyma inhibiting a loss in pulmonary compliance improving oxygenation and decreasing carbon dioxide retention.

Example 17 hereinafter describes a protocol showing the efficacy of R 107 as a therapeutic agent in a rat model of erectile dysfunction. In certain embodiments the pharmaceutical composition of the invention is thus used for treatment of erectile dysfunction.

The term erectile dysfunction refers to the inability of a male to produce an erection that allows for reliable and effective penetration of the vagina. The term treatment as used herein with respect to erectile dysfunction refers to administration of an active agent after the onset of symptoms of erectile dysfunction. According to the invention administration of said active agent for treatment of erectile dysfunction is aimed at improving erectile quality and thereby facilitating successful vaginal penetration.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can be provided in a variety of formulations e.g. in a pharmaceutically acceptable form and or in a salt form as well as in a variety of dosages.

In one embodiment the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention comprises a non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound of the general formula I. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts include acid addition salts such as without being limited to the mesylate salt the maleate salt the fumarate salt the tartrate salt the hydrochloride salt the hydrobromide salt the esylate salt the p toluenesulfonate salt the benzenesulfonate salt the benzoate salt the acetate salt the phosphate salt the sulfate salt the citrate salt the carbonate salt and the succinate salt. Additional pharmaceutically acceptable salts include salts of ammonium NH or an organic cation derived from an amine of the formula RN wherein each one of the Rs independently is selected from H C C preferably C Calkyl such as methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl n butyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl n pentyl 2 2 dimethylpropyl n hexyl and the like phenyl or heteroaryl such as pyridyl imidazolyl pyrimidinyl and the like or two of the Rs together with the nitrogen atom to which they are attached form a 3 7 membered ring optionally containing a further heteroatom selected from N S and O such as pyrrolydine piperidine and morpholine. Furthermore where the compounds of the general formula I carry an acidic moiety suitable pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof may include metal salts such as alkali metal salts e.g. lithium sodium or potassium salts and alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium or magnesium salts.

Further pharmaceutically acceptable salts include salts of a cationic lipid or a mixture of cationic lipids. Cationic lipids are often mixed with neutral lipids prior to use as delivery agents. Neutral lipids include but are not limited to lecithins phosphatidylethanolamine diacyl phosphatidylethanolamines such as dioleoyl phosphatidylethanolamine dipalmitoyl phosphatidylethanolamine palmitoyloleoyl phosphatidylethanolamine and distearoyl phosphatidylethanolamine phosphatidylcholine diacyl phosphatidylcholines such as dioleoyl phosphatidylcholine dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine palmitoyloleoyl phosphatidylcholine and distearoyl phosphatidylcholine phosphatidylglycerol diacyl phosphatidylglycerols such as dioleoyl phosphatidylglycerol dipalmitoyl phosphatidylglycerol and distearoyl phosphatidylglycerol phosphatidylserine diacyl phosphatidylserines such as dioleoyl or dipalmitoyl phosphatidylserine and diphosphatidylglycerols fatty acid esters glycerol esters sphingolipids cardiolipin cerebrosides ceramides and mixtures thereof. Neutral lipids also include cholesterol and other 3 hydroxy sterols.

Examples of cationic lipid compounds include without being limited to Lipofectin Life Technologies Burlington Ontario 1 1 w w formulation of the cationic lipid N 1 2 3 dioleyloxy propyl N N N trimethylammonium chloride and dioleoylphosphatidyl ethanolamine Lipofectamine Life Technologies Burlington Ontario 3 1 w w formulation of polycationic lipid 2 3 dioleyloxy N 2 spermine carboxamido ethyl N N dimethyl 1 propanamin iumtrifluoroacetate and dioleoylphosphatidyl ethanolamine Lipofectamine Plus Life Technologies Burlington Ontario Lipofectamine and Plus reagent Lipofectamine 2000 Life Technologies Burlington Ontario Cationic lipid Effectene Qiagen Mississauga Ontario Non liposomal lipid formulation Metafectene Biontex Munich Germany Polycationic lipid Eu fectins Promega Biosciences San Luis Obispo Calif. ethanolic cationic lipids numbers 1 through 12 CHNO.4CFCOH CHNOS.4CFCOH CHNOP.CFCOH CHNO.4CFCOH CHNO.6CFCOH CHNO.4 CFCOH CHNO.2CFCOH CHNOS.8CFCOH CHNO.13CFCOH CHNO.2CFCOH CHNO.2CFCOH CHNOP Cytofectene Bio Rad Hercules Calif. mixture of a cationic lipid and a neutral lipid GenePORTER Gene Therapy Systems San Diego Calif. formulation of a neutral lipid Dope and a cationic lipid and FuGENE 6 Roche Molecular Biochemicals Indianapolis Ind. Multi component lipid based non liposomal reagent .

The pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the present invention may be formed by conventional means e.g. by reacting a free base form of the active agent i.e. the compound of the general formula I with one or more equivalents of the appropriate acid in a solvent or medium in which the salt is insoluble or in a solvent such as water which is removed in vacuo or by freeze drying or by exchanging the anion cation of an existing salt for another anion cation on a suitable ion exchange resin.

The present invention encompasses solvates of the compounds of the general formula I as well as salts thereof e.g. hydrates.

The pharmaceutical compositions provided by the present invention may be prepared by conventional techniques e.g. as described in Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy 19Ed. 1995. The compositions can be prepared e.g. by uniformly and intimately bringing the active agent into association with a liquid carrier a finely divided solid carrier or both and then if necessary shaping the product into the desired formulation. The compositions may be in liquid solid or semisolid form and may further include pharmaceutically acceptable fillers carriers diluents or adjuvants and other inert ingredients and excipients. In one embodiment the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention is formulated as nanoparticles.

The compositions can be formulated for any suitable route of administration but they are preferably formulated for parenteral e.g. intravenous intraarterial intramuscular intraperitoneal intrathecal intrapleural intratracheal subcutaneous or topical administration as well as for inhalation. Pharmaceutical compositions formulated for intramuscular injections may be suitable inter alia for emergent use such as in CILI and pharmaceutical compositions formulated for topical administration may be suitable inter alia for treatment of skin ulcers and wounds elevated intraocular pressure and uveitis by application to the cornea and erectile dysfunction by application to the penile as well as for increasing genital lubrication by vaginal application . The dosage will depend on the state of the patient and will be determined as deemed appropriate by the practitioner.

The pharmaceutical composition of the invention may be in the form of a sterile injectable aqueous or oleagenous suspension which may be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing wetting or suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent. Acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed include without limiting water Ringer s solution polyethylene glycol PEG 2 hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin HPCD Tween 80 and isotonic sodium chloride solution.

Pharmaceutical compositions according to the present invention when formulated for inhalation may be administered utilizing any suitable device known in the art such as metered dose inhalers liquid nebulizers dry powder inhalers sprayers thermal vaporizers electrohydrodynamic aerosolizers and the like.

Pharmaceutical compositions according to the present invention when formulated for administration route other than parenteral administration may be in a form suitable for oral use e.g. as tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oily suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules or syrups or elixirs.

Pharmaceutical compositions intended for oral administration should be formulated so as to inhibit the release of the active agent in the stomach i.e. delay the release of the active agent until at least a portion of the dosage form has traversed the stomach in order to avoid the acidity of the gastric contents from hydrolyzing the active agent to its highly water insoluble form i.e. its corresponding 1 pyrrolidinyloxy 1 piperidinyloxy or 1 azepanyloxy derivative. Particular such compositions are those wherein the active agent is coated by a pH dependent enteric coating polymer. Examples of pH dependent enteric coating polymer include without being limited to Eudragit S poly methacrylicacid methylmethacrylate 1 2 Eudragit L 55 poly methacrylicacid ethylacrylate 1 1 Kollicoat poly methacrylicacid ethylacrylate 1 1 hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate HPMCP alginates carboxymethylcellulose and combinations thereof. The pH dependent enteric coating polymer may be present in the composition in an amount from about 10 to about 95 by weight of the entire composition.

Pharmaceutical compositions intended for oral administration may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and may further comprise one or more agents selected from sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide pharmaceutically elegant and palatable preparations. Tablets contain the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipients which are suitable for the manufacture of tablets. These excipients may be e.g. inert diluents such as calcium carbonate sodium carbonate lactose calcium phosphate or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents e.g. corn starch or alginic acid binding agents e.g. starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents e.g. magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc. The tablets may be either uncoated or coated utilizing known techniques to delay disintegration and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate may be employed. They may also be coated using the techniques described in the U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 256 108 4 166 452 and 4 265 874 to form osmotic therapeutic tablets for control release. The pharmaceutical composition of the invention may also be in the form of oil in water emulsion.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be formulated for controlled release of the active agent. Such compositions may be formulated as controlled release matrix e.g. as controlled release matrix tablets in which the release of a soluble active agent is controlled by having the active diffuse through a gel formed after the swelling of a hydrophilic polymer brought into contact with dissolving liquid in vitro or gastro intestinal fluid in vivo . Many polymers have been described as capable of forming such gel e.g. derivatives of cellulose in particular the cellulose ethers such as hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxymethyl cellulose methylcellulose or methyl hydroxypropyl cellulose and among the different commercial grades of these ethers are those showing fairly high viscosity. In other configurations the compositions comprise the active agent formulated for controlled release in microencapsulated dosage form in which small droplets of the active agent are surrounded by a coating or a membrane to form particles in the range of a few micrometers to a few millimeters.

Another contemplated formulation is depot systems based on biodegradable polymers wherein as the polymer degrades the active ingredient is slowly released. The most common class of biodegradable polymers is the hydrolytically labile polyesters prepared from lactic acid glycolic acid or combinations of these two molecules. Polymers prepared from these individual monomers include poly D L lactide PLA poly glycolide PGA and the copolymer poly D L lactide co glycolide PLG .

In a further aspect the present invention relates to a compound of the general formula I as defined above or an enantiomer diastereomer racemate or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof for use in prevention treatment or management of a disease disorder or condition associated with oxidative stress or endothelial dysfunction.

In yet another aspect the present invention relates to use of a compound of the general formula I as defined above or an enantiomer diastereomer racemate or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof for the preparation of a pharmaceutical composition for prevention treatment or management of a disease disorder or condition associated with oxidative stress or endothelial dysfunction.

In still another aspect the present invention relates to a method for prevention treatment or management of a disease disorder or condition associated with oxidative stress or endothelial dysfunction in an individual in need thereof comprising administering to said individual an effective amount of a compound of the general formula I as defined above or an enantiomer diastereomer racemate or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof.

A suspension of 3 carboxyproxyl 77.5 g 0.416 mol in dry tetrahydrofuran THF 500 ml was cooled to 0 C. Lithium aluminum hydride 2M solution in THF 160 ml 0.32 mol was slowly added to the suspension over 4 hours under nitrogen atmosphere. During the addition the temperature was maintained below 5 C. After the completion of addition the reaction mixture was stirred at 0 5 C. for 30 minutes and then at room temperature for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was again cooled to 0 C. Sodium sulfate decahydrate solid 52 gm was slowly added in small portions over 1 hour. The suspension was stirred further for 1 hour. It was diluted with ethyl acetate 1 liter and filtered. The cake was washed with ethyl acetate 500 ml and the filtrate was concentrated on rotary evaporator. The residue obtained after concentration was suspended in 30 ethyl acetate hexane 500 ml and the solid separated out was filtered and washed with 30 ethyl acetate hexane and dried under vacuum to give 3 hydroxymethyl proxyl as yellow colored solid 56.320 g . The material was used as such for next reaction. Concentrated nitric acid 90 solution 100 ml was cooled to 0 C. using ice bath in 2 liter beaker. Concentrated sulfuric acid 100 ml was slowly added to nitric acid at 0 C. over 15 minutes. The mixture was stirred at 0 5 C. for 15 minutes. 3 Hydroxymethyl proxyl 50 g 0.29 mol was added in small portions over 2 hours. After the addition the mixture was stirred at 0 5 C. for 1 hour and quenched with crushed ice 1 kg . The mixture was then basified by slow addition of solid potassium carbonate 460 g over 1 hour at 0 C. The basic mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. The solid separated out was filtered and washed with water 1 liter . The solid was re suspended in water 400 ml and ethyl acetate 400 ml added and the biphasic mixture was transferred into a separatory funnel. The ethyl acetate layer was collected. Aqueous layer was extracted again with ethyl acetate 400 ml . The combined organic extract was dried on anhydrous sodium sulfate and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated on rotary evaporator. The residue was dissolved ethyl acetate and triturated with hexane. The solid separated out was collected by filtration to produce 3 nitrooxymethyl proxyl as pale yellow solid 39.7 g . MS ES m z 218.3 M 1 .

A suspension of 3 nitrooxymethyl proxyl 10.0 g 0.046 mol in ethanol 100 ml was slowly treated with 4 M solution of hydrochloric acid in dioxane 0.1 mol at room temperature. The reaction mixture was then stirred for 2 hours and concentrated on rotary evaporator. Dry ether was added and the solid separated out was filtered and dried under vacuum to give 1 hydroxy 2 2 5 5 tetramethylpyrrolidin 3 yl methyl nitrate hydrochloride as white solid 11.050 g . H NMR DMSO d 1.19 1.51 m 12H 2.02 m 1H 2.48 2.52 m 1H 3.45 m 1H 4.56 4.66 m 2H 11.52 bs 1H 11.86 bs 1H . MS ES m z 219.3 M 1 .

1 Hydroxy 2 2 5 5 tetramethylpyrrolidin 3 yl methyl nitrate hydrochloride 4.0 g 0.0157 mol was dissolved in THF 40 ml and treated with triethylamine 4.5 ml and acetic anhydride 2 ml at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was concentrated and dissolved in ethyl acetate and water 50 ml each . Organic layer was collected and dried over sodium sulfate. It was concentrated and the residue was purified on silica gel column using 0 20 ethyl acetate hexane to give 1 acetoxy 2 2 5 5 tetramethylpyrrolidin 3 yl methyl nitrate as pale yellow oil 4.1 g . H NMR CDCl 1.10 s 3H 1.15 s 3H 1.18 s 3H 1.21 s 3H 1.59 1.65 m 1H 1.88 1.93 dd J 7 and 12 Hz 1H 2.11 s 3H 2.37 2.41 m 1H 4.36 4.51 m 2H .

1 Hydroxy 2 2 5 5 tetramethylpyrrolidin 3 yl methyl nitrate hydrochloride 1.0 g 0.004 mol was dissolved in THF 20 ml and treated with triethylamine 3 eq and propionic anhydride 2 eq at room temperature for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was concentrated and dissolved in ethyl acetate and water 50 ml each . The organic layer was collected and dried over sodium sulfate. It was concentrated and the residue was purified on silica gel column using 0 20 ethyl acetate hexane to give 1 propanoyloxy 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl pyrrolidin 3 yl methyl nitrate as pale yellow oil 1.010 g . H NMR CDCl 1.09 s 3H 1.16 s 3H 1.17 s 3H 1.18 1.21 m 6H 1.58 1.65 m 1H 1.85 1.92 dd J 7.5 and 12.9 Hz 1H 2.33 2.41 m 2H 2.37 2.41 m 1H 4.34 4.50 m 2H .

1 Hydroxy 2 2 5 5 tetramethylpyrrolidin 3 yl methyl nitrate hydrochloride 1.04 g 0.004 mol was dissolved in THF 20 ml and treated with triethylamine 3 eq and isobutyryl anhydride 1.5 eq at room temperature for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was concentrated and dissolved in ethyl acetate and water 50 ml each . Organic layer was collected and dried over sodium sulfate. It was concentrated and the residue was purified on silica gel column using 25 ethyl acetate hexane to give 1 2 methylpropanoyloxy 2 2 5 5 tetramethylpyrrolidin 3 yl methyl nitrate as pale yellow oil 1.0 g . H NMR CDCl 1.10 1.22 m 18H 1.61 dd J 12 Hz 1H 1.85 1.92 dd J 7.5 and 12 Hz 1H 2.33 2.43 m 1H 2.57 2.67 m 1H 4.38 4.51 m 2H .

In an in vitro study 2 2 5 5 tetramethyl 3 nitrooxymethyl pyrrolidin 1 yl acetate R 107 was incubated in mouse or rat plasma at 37 C. at a concentration of 4 mM and the relative concentrations of this compound as well as of its corresponding hydroxylamine 1 hydroxy 2 2 5 5 tetramethylpyrrolidin 3 yl methyl nitrate R 105 and 3 nitratomethyl 2 2 5 5 tetramethylpyrrolidinyloxy R 100 were measured by HPLC. Table 4 shows the relative concentration of each one of the compounds in mouse and rat plasma following 0.1 1.5 and 20 hours indicating that R 107 is in fact a prodrug of its corresponding hydroxylamine compound upon hydrolysis of the ester bond O C O Rin the general formula I wherein the hydroxylamine compound is then oxidized in vivo to its corresponding nitroxide derivative R 100.

In the following two experiments the pharmacokinetic of releasing R 100 from R 107 via R 105 that is the reduced form of R 100 was studied in vivo according to the protocol described herein.

100 l aliquots plasma obtained from R 107 treated sheep or pig were thawed and 200 l ice cold ethanol was added to each 100 l sample to precipitate protein. Samples were then vortexed placed on ice for 10 minutes and then spun down at room temperature for 15 minutes. A first 100 l supernatant from each spun sample was withdrawn and placed in a labeled HPLC micro vial to which 300 l MPA LC mobile phase A was added and the vial contents were then mixed and submitted for LCMS analysis kept at 4 C. . The concentration of R 107 was measured in this sample as was the concentration of R105. A second 100 l supernatant from each spun sample was added to a labelled HPLC micro vial to which 300 l MPA and 2 l of Reducing solution ascorbic acid 1.0 mg ml in water were added. These vials were vortexed incubated at 50 C. for 1 hour with gentle shaking and were then cooled to 4 C. and submitted for LCMS analysis. This sample was analyzed for R105 i.e. reduced form of R 100 and the amount measured thus represents the sum of R 100 and R 105 originally present in the plasma. The concentration of R 100 can be calculated from that of the R 105 in the second sample minus that of R 105 in the first sample. However the concentrations of R 105 were seen to be low approximately 10 or less of those of R 100 and so the results reported below as R 100 are not corrected for R 105.

Sets of standards R 100 R 105 and R 107 were prepared by spiking individually in pig plasma. 100 l aliquots of these spiked plasma samples after thawing were included in the above extraction protocol.

Analysis method were carried out with an Agilent HPLC stack with column eluate directed via a diverter valve into the source of an AB Sciex Qstar Elite Hybrid TOF high resolution mass spectrometer. LC column Phenomenex Kinetex C18 2.6u 100A 2.1 50 mm. LC mobile phase A HO with 0.02 trifluoroacetic acid TFA 0.1 formic acid HOF Phase B acetonitrile ACN with 0.02 TFA 0.1 HOF. Mobile phase flow rate 500 l min. Injection size 8 l via Agilent 1100 u WPS autosampler.

Tables 5 and 6 show the amount of R 107 and R 100 measured in the plasma of a sheep 35 kg at certain points in time following IV or IM administration respectively of neat R 107 0.8 ml 880 mg 25 mg kg over 10 minutes. For the purpose of comparison Table 7 shows the amount of R 100 measured at certain points in time following IV administration of R 100 in HPCD 20 mg ml 20 mg kg bolus the ratio between the molecular weights of R 107 R 100 is 269 217 so the dosing of 25 mg kg and 20 mg kg R 107 R 100 is approximately equimolar .

Table 8 shows the amount of R 107 and R 100 measured in the plasma of a pig 10 kg at certain points in time following IV administration of neat R 107 0.8 ml 880 mg 88 mg kg over 6 minutes Table 9 shows the amount of R 107 and R 100 measured in the plasma of a pig 10 kg at certain points in time following IV administration of R 107 diluted in 4 parts of PEG400 0.8 ml 176 mg 18 mg kg over 6 minutes and Table 10 shows the amount of R 107 and R 100 measured in the plasma of a pig 10 kg at certain points in time following oral administration of neat R 107 0.8 ml 880 mg 88 mg kg given as a capsule per os .

In this study Balb c mice exposed to a lethal dose of lipopolysaccharide LPS 10 mg kg IP are treated with R 107 0 20 40 or 80 mg kg day BID IP with the initial dose given 1 hour after LPS injection and the mortality for the animal treated with LPS only the control group vs. that for the animals treated with the various doses of R 107 is compared.

In a satellite study tissues and sera are collected at 16 hours i.e. 15 hours after the first administration and 3 hours after the second administration of R 107 for analysis and the level of creatinine aspartate transminase AST alanine transaminase ALT bilirubin amylase lipase and alkaline phosphatase ALP associated with kidney pancreas and liver functioning are measured.

In this study a model of sheep suffering from PSA induced septic pneumonia and consequent pulmonary dysfunction is used. Female Merino sheep are operatively instrumented for chronic study with Swan Ganz i.e. pulmonary artery and femoral artery catheters and are randomly allocated to vehicle control or R 107 treatment group. Smoke inhalation injury 48 breaths of cotton smoke is induced and 2.4 10colony forming units CFU of PSA are instilled in the lung via bronchoscope under general anesthesia. The animal in the treatment group are intravenously IV administered with a total of 80 mg kg of R 107 BID. Ringer s lactate solution is titrated IV to maintain hematocrit hct at baseline 3 . Measurements are taken at baseline and every 3 hours during the 24 hours study period. Data are expressed as mean SEM. Statistical analysis two way ANOVA and Bonferroni post hoc comparison. A p value 

In this study adult male Sprague Dawley rats 250 350 g 3 groups are treated with a single subcutaneous injection of monocrotaline MCT 60 mg kg a plant poison that induces a well characterized experimental model of pulmonary hypertension or an equivalent volume of saline 2 ml kg vehicle control . After a period of 38 days in which rats develop severe PAH dosing with R 107 for 10 days is initiated as follows group 1 sham animals does not receive MCT and is dosed with vehicle control in drinking water group 2 is dosed with vehicle control in drinking water group 3 is dosed with R 107 80 160 mg kg day BID IP . At the conclusion of the 10 day dosing period rats are anesthetized and instrumented and resting hemodynamic indices are recorded.

At post mortem the lower lobe of the right lung is fixed with formalin solution and after paraffin embedding 5 mm sections are stained with haematoxylin and eosin and observed in a Dialux 22 Leitz Wetziar Germany microscope. The score of lung fibrosis is assessed on sections stained with Masson Trichrome staining. For morphometric evaluations all three lobes of right lung are inspected. For each lobe the vessels of medium and small size that demonstrate edema and inflammatory cells are counted. Results are expressed as the percentage of vessels presenting indices of disease relative to the total number of vessels counted in the sections. The percentage of vessels demonstrating thickening of the layer of smooth muscle in the tunica are also expressed as a percentage relative to the total number of vessels counted.

In this study a prospective placebo controlled dose escalation randomized study is carried out in anesthetized mechanically ventilated and muscle relaxed newborn lambs wherein pulmonary hypertension of the newborn PPHN has been induced by in utero ligation of the ductus arteriosus. This clinically relevant gold standard model is characterized by severe PAH that is poorly responsive to inhaled nitric oxide iNO thus reflecting the 30 50 of clinical PPHN non responders to clinical iNO therapy. R 107 0 0.3 1.0 and 3.0 mg kg h IV n 6 per group is compared to iNO 40 ppm n 6 over a 6 hour period of observation. Hemodynamic parameters are monitored for response to treatment and post treatment rebound pulmonary arterial hypertension. The activity of R 107 is related to its plasma concentration in order to construct a pharmacodynamic profile.

In order to test the efficacy of R 107 in peripheral hypertension HTN a series of 3 hemodynamic studies is carried out in conscious instrumented ambulatory and telemetered minipigs n 5 with HTN secondary to an endovascular created unilateral renovascular stenosis. Minipigs are treated with R 107 administered as an enterically coated oral capsule.

In Series A the pharmacokinetic profile and hemodynamic effect of a single administration of R 107 3 10 20 30 mg kg is correlated with a one week washout period between successive dose levels. Animals are monitored for 24 hours to collect continuous hemodynamic data and intermittent plasma concentrations of R 107 and its metabolites 0 0.25 0.5 0.75 1 2 4 6 8 12 16 20 and 24 hours . In Series B the most promising 2 doses of R 107 from Series A are evaluated by carrying out a repeat dose study of R 107 administered every 6 hours q6h for a period of 3 days. The hemodynamic effects of R 107 are correlated with plasma peak and trough concentrations of R 107 and its metabolites obtained q6h. In Series C the emergence of tachyphylaxis to R 107 in a 2 week repeat dose study q6h is evaluated utilizing the optimal dose determined in Series B wherein hemodynamics are correlated with plasma pharmacokinetic determinations as in Series B.

In this study the effect of R 107 at the dose of 80 mg kg is tested in a well characterized model of kidney ischemia and reperfusion in rats. Male Sprague Dawley rats are placed onto a thermostatically controlled heating mat and body temperature is maintained at 38 1 C. by means of a rectal probe attached to a homeothermic blanket. A tracheotomy is performed to maintain airway patency and to facilitate spontaneous respiration. A midline laparotomy is performed and the bladder is cannulated. Both kidneys are located and the renal pedicles containing the artery vein and nerve supplying each kidney are carefully isolated.

Rats Groups 2 and 3 are allowed to stabilize for 30 minutes before they are subjected to bilateral renal occlusion for 30 minutes using artery clips to clamp the renal pedicles. Reperfusion commenced once the artery clips are removed control animals . Occlusion is verified visually by change in the color of the kidneys to a paler shade and reperfusion by a blush. The other rats Group 1 which underwent identical surgical procedures similar to control animals but did not undergo bilateral renal clamping are subjected to sham operation sham operated and are maintained under anesthesia for the duration of the experiment. At the end of all experiments animals are killed by an overdose of sodium thiopentone.

Upon completion of surgical procedures the animals are randomly allocated to Group 1 Sham no ischemia Group 2 ischemia reperfusion I R and Group 3 ischemia reperfusion I R and R 107 therapy . Urine is collected from the rats during the following periods i 2 hours prior to ischemia until 30 minutes prior to ischemia ii from the onset of reperfusion until 1.5 hours after the onset of reperfusion iii from 1.5 hours after the onset of reperfusion until 3.0 hours after the onset of reperfusion iv from 3 hours after the onset of reperfusion until 4.5 hours after the onset of reperfusion and v from 4.5 hours after the onset of reperfusion until 6.0 hours after the onset of reperfusion. Arterial blood samples are obtained at 0 1.5 hours 3.0 hours 4.5 hours and 6.0 hours after the onset of reperfusion. R 107 80 mg kg Group 3 is administered as a 10 minute IV infusion beginning 20 minutes after the onset of ischemia.

At the end of the reperfusion period blood 1 ml samples are collected via the carotid artery into S1 3 tubes containing serum gel and the samples are centrifuged 6000 rpm for 3 minutes to separate plasma. All plasma samples are analyzed for biochemical parameters within 24 hours after collection. Urine samples are collected during the reperfusion period and the volume of urine produced is recorded. Urine concentrations of Na are measured and are used in conjunction with plasma Na concentrations to calculate fractional excretion of sodium FE using standard formulae which is used as an indicator of tubular function. Plasma and urine concentrations of creatinine are measured as indicators of impaired glomerular function. Creatinine clearance is calculated using the formula UV P where U refers to creatinine concentration in urine V refers to urine volume min and P refers to serum creatinine. Plasma concentrations of neutrophil gelatinase associated lipocalin NGAL are evaluated as indicated by the commercial kit. Urine concentration of NGAL is evaluated as indicated by the commercial kit.

Myeloperoxidase MPO activity in kidneys is used as an indicator of polymorphonuclear PMN cell infiltration using a method previously described. Briefly at the end of the experiments kidney tissue is weighed and homogenized in a solution containing 0.5 wt vol hexadecyltrimethyl ammonium bromide dissolved in 10 mmol l potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 and centrifuged for 30 minutes at 20 000 g at 4 C. An aliquot of supernatant is then removed and added to a reaction mixture containing 1.6 mmol l tetramethylbenzidine and 0.1 mmol l hydrogen peroxide HO . The rate of change in absorbance is measured spectrophotometrically at 650 nm. MPO activity is defined as the quantity of enzyme required to degrade 1 mmol of HOat 37 C. and is expressed in U g wet tissue.

Levels of malondialdehyde MDA in kidneys are determined as an indicator of lipid peroxidation following a protocol described previously. Briefly kidney tissue is weighed and homogenized in a 1.15 wt vol KCl solution. A 100 ml aliquot of homogenate is then removed and added to a reaction mixture containing 200 ml 8.1 wt vol lauryl sulfate 1.5 ml 20 vol vol acetic acid pH 3.5 1.5 ml 0.8 wt vol thiobarbituric acid and 700 ml distilled water. Samples are then boiled for one hour at 95 C. and centrifuged at 3000 g for 10 minutes. The absorbance of the supernatant is measured spectrophotometrically at 650 nm. MDA levels are expressed as M 100 mg wet tissue.

At post mortem a 5 am section of kidney is removed and placed in formalin and processed through to wax. Five millimeter sections are cut and stained with hematoxylin and eosin. Histologic assessment of tubular necrosis is determined semiquantitatively using a method modified from McWhinnie et al. 1987 29 4 214 223. Random cortical fields are observed using a 20 objective. A graticule grid 25 squares is used to determine the number of line intersects involving tubular profiles. One hundred intersections are examined for each kidney and a score from 0 to 3 is given for each tubular profile involving an intersection 0 normal histology 1 tubular cell swelling brush border loss nuclear condensation with up to one third of tubular profile showing nuclear loss 2 same as for score 1 but greater than one third and less than two thirds of tubular profile shows nuclear loss 3 greater than two thirds of tubular profile shows nuclear loss. The total score for each kidney is calculated by addition of all 100 scores.

In this study the efficacy of R 107 in subacute murine model of retinal ischemia reperfusion injury is tested using male C57BL 6 mice n 10 per group . Briefly the anterior chamber of the right eye is cannulated with a 30 gauge needle attached to a line infusing sterile saline. The intraocular pressure IOP is raised to 110 mmHg by elevating the saline reservoir. The left eye undergoes sham surgery in which the needle is inserted into the anterior chamber without elevating IOP. R 107 is injected 30 mg kg day IP BID commencing directly before reperfusion. 2 vehicle controls normal saline and HPCD is compared to drug therapy. Treatments are repeated twice daily thereafter until sacrifice. The outcome of these pharmacologic studies is quantitatively assessed by using terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling TUNEL to measure retinal cell death after 3 days confocal imaging to quantify survival of ganglion cell layer neurons after 7 days and electroretinogram recordings to measure retinal neuronal function after 21 days .

In this study a porcine model of acute retinal ischemia reperfusion injury n 6 per group is induced by equilibration with an elevated saline reservoir to create a static IOP of 90 mmHg for 90 min. Task 1 Microvascular responsiveness A dose response of parenteral R 107 0 10 30 80 mg kg day IV BID is initiated 10 minutes before reperfusion. 1 hour after reperfusion retinal microvessels are harvested and cannulated for ex vivo analysis of vascular responsiveness to endothelium dependent and independent vasodilators. Task 2 Retinal function and morphology R 107 is given 10 minutes before reperfusion at a dose determined by Task 1 and its efficacy judged by electroretinogram 1 2 7 days post reperfusion and retinal histology ultrastructure and drug concentration Day 7 .

In order to test the efficacy of R 107 in a myocardial ischemia reperfusion injury male aged Sprague Dawley rats are dosed with R 107 0 10 30 80 mg kg IV 10 minutes prior to the end of a 30 minutes period of ischemia produced by occlusion of the left anterior descending LAD coronary artery. Cardiac function is monitored by a Millar catheter for the determination of heart rate HR systolic and diastolic blood pressure BP left ventricular LV systolic BP LV end diastolic BP LVEDP dP dt pressure volume PV loop and tau . 3 hours post ischemia blood and myocardium are analyzed for morphologic histochemical and bioanalytical injury. The area of necrosis as a of area at risk AAR and the extent of the no reflow zone are quantified.

In this study the efficacy of R 107 in a limb ischemia reperfusion injury LIRI is tested. In a large animal model of acute LIRI n 6 minipigs per group induced by an endovascular balloon occlusion of the femoral artery for 6 hours parenteral R 107 0 10 30 80 mg kg day TID is initiated 10 minutes before reperfusion via direct arterial infusion followed by an IV infusion thereafter. At 7 14 and 21 days after reperfusion limb perfusion by Doppler flow is correlated with nerve conduction velocity NCV per electromyography EMG and muscle strength by foot pressure on a walking surface with simultaneous plasma concentrations of R 107.

In order to test the efficacy of R 107 in contrast induced nephropathy CIN a single blinded study of CIN is carried out in Sprague Dawley rats n 10 per group subjected to dehydration prostaglandin synthetase inhibition and an IV challenge of contrast media CM . A sham injury group is compared to treatment of CM challenged healthy rats with R 107 10 20 40 mg kg day in 5 dextrose BID IV N acetylcysteine NAC 100 mg kg day in 5 dextrose BID or vehicle control hydroxypropyl cyclodextrin HPCD initiated 10 min before CM administration and continued for 48 hours. Rats are evaluated at 48 hours for renal function blood urea nitrogen to creatinine ratio BUN creatinine and parameters reflecting renal injury including protein release into the blood NGAL kidney injury molecule 1 KIM 1 pro inflammatory transcription factor expression cytoplasmic IkBa degradation nuclear p65 translocation histologic damage H E mitochondrial swelling electron microscopy and nuclear damage and DNA repair PARP activation and nitrosative stress as noted by poly ADP ribose and 3 nitrotyrosine 3 NT tissue immunoreactivity .

In order to better model the patient population at greatest risk of CIN the optimal dose of R 107 is then further evaluated using the same experimental approach and design as before but in Sprague Dawley rats previously rendered diabetic 2 weeks earlier by injection of streptozotocin STZ 60 mg kg IV . A control group of rats with STZ induced diabetes receive vehicle control. If efficacy of R 107 in the diabetic group is less than in healthy rats additional groups are evaluated at higher doses of R 107 in order to establish the optimal response in this clinically relevant model of diabetes and CIN. Finally we investigate whether further benefit may be obtained in the diabetic setting by combining the administration of R 107 with aggressive volume resuscitation based on the apparent current clinical consensus that increased hydration ameliorates CIN. Diabetic rats in the elevated hydration group receive 10 ml kg IV normal saline NS boluses coincident with the administration of R 107. A control group receives IV NS alone.

In this study the effect of R 107 in treatment of CILI is tested. Balb c mice are exposed in a cylindrical glass chamber that is flushed continuously for 60 minutes at a rate of 2 liters minute with humidified gas obtained from a calibrated cylinder containing air and 400 ppm Cl. After the end of the 30 minute exposure the chamber is opened and mice are removed and immediately placed in cages in room air. Two and six hours after the conclusion of Clexposure mice are administered intraperitoneal IP with various doses of R 107. At 24 hours post exposure to the Cl containing air a midline incision from the neck to the pubis is created for access to the chest and abdominal cavities. Blood samples are obtained from the inferior vena cava just before sacrifice the heart lung block is rapidly excised and the pulmonary circulation is flushed through the main pulmonary artery with 20 ml of normal saline. The lungs are separated from the mediastinal tissues and are taken for biochemical assays and histological examination H E staining . The following morphological criteria are used for scoring grade 0 normal lung grade 1 minimal edema or infiltration of alveolar or bronchiolar walls grade 3 moderate edema and inflammatory cell infiltration without obvious damage to lung architecture and grade 4 severe inflammatory cell infiltration with obvious damage to lung architecture. Similar studies may be conducted with compounds of the general formula I other than R 107.

In a particular study the effect of R 107 in treatment of CILI was tested according to the protocol above. Male Balc c mice were divided to the following 5 groups i Sham n 5 ii vehicle HPCD n 5 iii vehicle PEG 400 n 5 iv R 100 formulated in HPCD 80 mg kg dose total 160 mg kg day IP n 10 and v R 107 formulated in PEG 400 100 mg kg dose total 200 mg kg day IP n 10 . show representative photomicrographs demonstrating H E stained lung sections taken from Sham operated mice A B animals treated with Cl HPCD C animals treated with Cl saline D animals treated with Cl R 100 E and animals treated with Cl R 107 F . shows that R 107 as well as its corresponding 1 pyrrolidinyloxy R 100 when administered 2 and 6 hours post a 60 minute exposure to Clcontaining air significantly attenuated CILI in mice 24 hours post exposure as exemplified by the improved histology scores.

In another study conducted according to the protocol described above male Balc c mice were divided to the following 5 groups i Sham n 2 ii vehicle olive oil n 4 iii R 107 formulated in olive oil 10 mg kg dose total 20 mg kg day IP n 4 iv R 107 formulated in oil 30 mg kg dose total 60 mg kg day IP n 4 and v R 107 formulated in oil 80 mg kg dose total 160 mg kg day IP n 4 . Drug was administered 2 and 6 hours post a 60 minute exposure to Cl 400 ppm containing air and at 24 hours the mice were sacrificed and lung histology examined. Table 11 shows that R 107 dose responsively attenuated CILI in mice 24 hours post exposure as exemplified by the improved histology scores.

In order to test the efficacy of R 107 in erectile dysfunction ED a prospective placebo controlled randomized single blinded study of ED is carried out in anesthetized Sprague Dawley rats n 10 per group . A sham injury group is compared to treatment with R 107 80 mg kg day BID IV initiated 10 minutes before crush injury of the cavernosal nerves of the penis and continued for 1 week. After 1 week rats undergo in vivo neurogenic mediated evaluation of the erectile response. At the completion of the physiologic evaluation rats are euthanized and tissues removed for biochemical morphologic and inflammatory analyses. The crush injury is produced as follows After IP injection of sodium pentobarbital 50 mg kg for anesthesia the abdomen is shaved and prepared with an iodine based solution and a lower midline abdominal incision is made. The prostate gland is exposed and cavernosal nerves tracking posterolateral are identified and isolated. In a sham group there is no further surgical manipulation. In the remaining groups crush injury is created using a hemostat clamp for 3 minutes. The abdomen is then closed in 2 layers in all rats. 1 week after surgical intervention all rats undergo an in vivo neurogenic mediated erectile response study. Rats are anesthetized with pentobarbital 50 mg kg IP and placed on a thermally regulated surgical table. The trachea is cannulated using PE 240 polyethylene tubing to maintain a patent airway and the animals breath room air enriched with 95 O 5 CO. A carotid artery is cannulated with PE 50 tubing to continuously measure systemic blood pressure MAP using a Statham transducer attached to a data acquisition system and connected to a computer. A 25 gauge needle filled with heparin 250 U ml and connected to PE 50 tubing is inserted into the right crura and connected to a pressure transducer to permit continuous measurement of intracavernous pressure ICP . The cavernosal nerve CN is identified posterolateral to the prostate on 1 side and an electrical stimulator with a stainless steel bipolar hook is placed around the CN. The CN is stimulated with a square pulse stimulator Grass Instruments Quincy Mass. . CN stimulation CNS at a frequency of 15 Hz and pulse width of 30 sec is performed in each rat. CNS at 2.5 5 and 7.5 V is used in the current protocol to achieve significant consistent erectile responses. The duration of stimulation is 1 minute with a rest period of 3 5 minutes between subsequent CNSs. The total erectile response or total ICP is determined by the area under the curve in mm Hg per second from the beginning of CNS until ICP returned to baseline or prestimulation pressure. The ICP MAP ratio at the peak erectile response is determined to control for variations in MAP.

