---

title: Allowing a computing device to operate in a demo mode and a consumer mode
abstract: Systems and methods for a demo mode for a computing device are disclosed. In some implementations, a computing device receives a first input for entering a demo mode. The computing device prompts, in response to the first input, for a user input indicating whether the user wishes to place the computing device in the demo mode. The computing device receives the user input indicating that the user wishes to place the computing device in the demo mode. The computing device enters the demo mode responsive to the user input indicating that the user wishes to place the computing device in the demo mode. Entering the demo mode includes adjusting battery settings of the computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09312570&OS=09312570&RS=09312570
owner: VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING INC.
number: 09312570
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140613
---
Oftentimes customers like to examine and play with computing devices such as tablet computers or mobile phones before purchasing the computing devices. Playing with the computing devices allows the customers to become familiar with the computing device s and their feature and may make them more comfortable with the purchase decision. In this connection computing device retailers often have demo computing devices in their stores. These demo computing devices may be special ordered demo mode devices from the manufacturer which repeatedly play a video showing key applications and features of the computing device. These demo devices may not be suitable for retail sale to a customer as they may have demo software in place of customer software. As a result retailers waste money on purchasing demo devices which cannot be resold to customers. As the foregoing illustrates a new approach for providing demo computing devices which would allow demo computing devices to be re sold to customers and or returned customer devices to be used as demo computing device may be desirable.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

The subject technology provides techniques for placing a computing device in a demo mode. According to some implementations a computing device may be able to transition between a consumer mode and a demo mode allowing a retailer to resell a former demo device or to use a returned or refurbished computing device as a demo device. As a result the retailer may not need to special order a demo device from the manufacturer.

A computing device may receive a first input for entering the demo mode. The first input may include a cellular signal from a pico cell environment associated with a retail store which may be detected within a radius e.g. 50 meters of the store depending on the strength of the signal and the cellular radio in the computing device. In some cases the first input may be a non user based input that is received via a short range radio e.g. a Wi Fi or a near field communication NFC radio or a long range radio e.g. a cellular radio . Alternatively the first input may include a preset security code for unlocking a user interface of the computing device. In some examples the first input may include a near field communication NFC radio signal. In some examples the first input may include a new subscriber identity module SIM card being placed in the computing device. The new SIM card may include an indication written into the SIM card that the computing device is to be placed in the demo mode. The first input may include the user registering a predetermined email address for example DEMO MODE CARRIER.COM for receiving email at the computing device. The first input may be a beacon signal for entering the demo mode. A retail store may have a beacon system that identifies a computing device with which the beacon system is able to communicate and sends to the computing device the beacon signal instructing the computing device to enter the demo mode. In some cases the beacon system may be able to communicate with device s within a radius based on the strength of the beacon system s radio and the device s radio of the beacon system. The beacon system may verify that a mobile equipment identifier MEID of the device corresponds to a device that does not belong to a consumer before placing the device in the demo mode.

In response to the first input the user of the computing device may be prompted to indicate whether he she wishes to place the computing device in the demo mode. The user may be notified that placing the computing device in the demo mode includes erasing the local memory and all user adjusted settings from the computing device. In response the user may provide an input indicating that the user wishes to place the computing device in the demo mode. For example the user may be presented with the prompt Do you wish to place the computing device in demo mode and offered to press a Yes button or a No button where Yes corresponds to placing the computing device in demo mode and No corresponds to foregoing placing the computing device in demo mode. If the user does not enter any input in response to the prompt the computing device may lock and not allow any other changes until the user enters an input responsive to the prompt. In some cases a safety mechanism may be provided. The safety mechanism may include for example providing an undo button for a predetermined time period e.g. five minutes or ten minutes after entering the demo mode. The predetermined time period may be set by a manufacturer or a programmer of the computing device.

The computing device may enter the demo mode in response to the user input indicating that the user wishes to place the computing device in the demo mode. Entering the demo mode may include restarting an operating system of the computing device in the demo mode erasing all or a portion of the local memory of the computing device and adjusting the battery settings of the computing device as described in greater detail below. After the computing device is placed in the demo mode a factory reset of the computing device may be required to exit the demo mode.

When not in the demo mode i.e. when in a consumer mode the computing device may operate under normal battery settings which include charging the battery whenever the computing device is plugged in and the battery is not fully charged. However when the computing device is in the demo mode it is oftentimes plugged in and physically connected to a wall or a table to prevent theft. As a result of the frequent charging the battery may be damaged. As the foregoing illustrates a new battery management technique for devices in the demo mode may be desirable. The new battery management technique may be used when the computing device is in demo mode and when the computing device is plugged into a charging station e.g. a wall charger or a universal serial bus USB charger .

The battery management technique may include determining a battery charge level of the computing device. The battery charge level corresponds to a percentage of the full power supply of the battery that is presently stored in the battery and is oftentimes displayed on a computing device proximate to a top or bottom edge of the screen.

According to the battery management technique in response to determining that the computing device is in the demo mode and plugged into the charging station if the battery charge level of the computing device is at or above a first threshold e.g. 35 the computing device may stop charging the battery from the charging station. If the battery charge level falls to at or below a second threshold e.g. 30 the computing device may restart charging the battery from the charging station. The first threshold and the second threshold may be set by a manufacturer or a programmer of the mobile device based on characteristics of the battery of the mobile device. The characteristics of the battery may include an optimal charging frequency and a charge range where the computing device does not automatically enter power saving mode. The characteristics of the battery may be provided by a manufacturer of the battery or the manufacturer of the computing device. If the computing device is plugged in and the battery is not being charged power for operating the computing device may be consumed from the charging station. The battery may be used if the power from the charging station is insufficient. In summary if the computing device is plugged in and in demo mode if the charge of the battery is at or above the first threshold the battery is not charged and if possible the power for operating the computing device is taken from the charging station. A switch within the circuitry that is controlled by the processor may be used to effect this change. The switch may allow power to be provided to either the battery the hardware e.g. processor network interface etc. of the computing device or both the battery and the hardware. If the charge of the battery is at or below the second threshold the battery is charged using the charging station. If the charge of the battery is between the first and second threshold and the battery was previously not charging charging of the battery is not started until the battery discharges to the second threshold. If the charge of the battery is between the first and second threshold and the battery was previously charging charging of the battery continues until the battery s charge level reaches the first threshold.

The battery stores electric power which may be provided to the processor the network interface or the memory for operation of the computing device . The battery may be charged by connecting to a charging station using a connection . In some cases the computing device may be operated without the battery by connecting the computing device to the charging station using the connection and powering the computing device using the connection to the charging station . The charging station may be a wall charger or a universal serial bus USB charger and the connection may be a wired connection. Alternatively the charging station may be a wireless charging station and the connection may be a wireless connection.

The memory stores data and or instructions. The memory may include a cache unit a storage unit a long term memory or a short term memory. As shown the memory stores a demo consumer switching module a demo mode module a consumer mode module a user editable local memory region and battery settings .

The user editable local memory region includes data stored at the computing device by the user of the computing device . The user editable memory region may include for example application s and file s . The file s may include photographs videos audio recordings text documents email messages short messaging service SMS messages etc.

The battery settings store settings for the operation and management of the battery. The battery settings may be adjusted based on whether the computing device is in a demo mode or a consumer mode. Consumers oftentimes charge the computing device once per day e.g. at night and then forego charging the computing device for extended periods of time e.g. 12 hours . Thus when the computing device is in a consumer mode the battery settings may include charging the computing device whenever the computing device is connected to the charging station via the connection . However the computing device in a demo mode may be connected to a fixed object e.g. a wall or a table to prevent theft of the computing device . Thus the computing device in a demo mode may be connected to the charging station more frequently causing damage to the battery due to the frequent and continued charging. In some cases foregoing charging the computing device when it is connected to the charging station and in the demo mode therefore may be desirable.

One example of the battery settings may include when the computing device is connected to the charging station and in the demo mode charging the battery if the battery charge level is at or below a second threshold e.g. 30 of full charge and stopping charging the battery if the battery charge level exceeds a first threshold e.g. 35 of full charge . If the battery charge level is between the second threshold and the first threshold e.g. between 30 and 35 of full charge and the battery was previously being charged charging continues. Otherwise charging does not begin until the battery charge level reaches the second threshold. The battery settings may include when the computing device is connected to the charging station and in the demo mode consuming power for operating the computing device from the charging station and consuming power from the battery upon determining that the power from the charging station is insufficient. Power from the charging station may be insufficient for example if the computing device is engaged in a battery intensive activity for example simultaneously 1 presenting an image on the screen 2 engaging in a cellular call via the network interface and 3 processing the audio for the cellular call via a headset connected to the computing device via a short range radio e.g. Bluetooth . In another example power from the charging station may be insufficient if either the charging station or the connection is not capable of providing power to the battery at a high rate of speed current. As a result of these battery settings the battery may be charged less frequently when the computing device is in the demo mode reducing damage to the battery due to overcharging.

The demo consumer switching module includes instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to switch the computing device between the demo mode and the consumer mode. One example of a process for entering a demo mode is described herein in conjunction with . Entering the consumer mode may include receiving a factory reset of the computing device and entering the consumer mode responsive to the factory reset of the computing device .

The demo mode module includes instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to enforce the demo mode at the computing device . The demo mode module may be executed in response to the computing device entering the demo mode. Enforcing the demo mode may include enforcing the battery settings associated with the demo mode and running demo applications or a demo presentation at the computing device . Enforcing the demo mode may also include clearing the user editable local memory region of the computing device .

The consumer mode module includes instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to enforce the consumer mode at the computing device . Enforcing the consumer mode may include enforcing the battery settings associated with the consumer mode. Enforcing the consumer mode may also include allowing the user to access and modify data including application s or file s stored in the user editable local memory region .

In step responsive to the first input the computing device prompts for a user input confirming the user wishes to place the computing device in the demo mode. The prompt may be displayed on a screen of the computing device. The user may be requested to select a first button to confirm that he she wishes for the computing device to be placed in the demo mode or to select a second button to indicate that he she does not wish for the computing device to be placed in the demo mode. The prompt may include notifying the user that placing the computing device in demo mode includes erasing the user editable local memory region of the computing device.

In step the computing device receives the user input indicating that the use wishes to place the computing device in the demo mode. For example the computing device may receive an indication that the user selected the first button. Selecting the first button may include clicking a mouse at a position corresponding to the first button or touching a touch screen at a position corresponding to the first button.

In step the computing device enters the demo mode responsive to the user input confirming that the user wishes to place the computing device in the demo mode. Entering the demo mode includes adjusting battery settings e.g. battery settings of the computing device. One example of battery settings corresponding to the demo mode is described with respect to . Entering the demo mode may include restarting an operating system of the computing device in the demo mode and or erasing at least a portion of the local memory of the computing device. The determination as to what entering the demo mode entails may be made by a manufacturer of the computing device and stored in the demo mode module e.g. demo mode module of the computing device. In some cases a computing device may have multiple demo modes and a store owner or employee may select the demo mode corresponding to the store by programming equipment at the store to inform the computing device of the one of the multiple demo modes to enter or by notifying an operator of the cellular network e.g. via a website of the selected demo mode. The erased portion of the local memory of the computing device may include the user editable local memory region e.g. user editable local memory region . At a later time the computing device may exit the demo mode and enter the consumer mode in response to a factory reset of the computing device. The factory reset of the computing device may be done by a user of the computing device who enters an input e.g. pressing one or more buttons for causing the factory reset. This can be done for example if an owner or employee of the store decides to sell a demo device to a customer or donate the demo device to a charity that provides computing devices to poor people or school districts. The owner or employee of the store may make this decision for example in response to running out of inventory of computing device s similar e.g. having a same make and model to the demo device or in response to computing device s similar to the demo device becoming outdated and replaced by a newer model. After step the process ends.

After entering the demo mode and adjusting the battery settings of the computing device as described in step of the process the computing device may determine that the computing device is connected to e.g. plugged into a charging station e.g. charging station . The computing device may accordingly charge its battery. Upon determining that the battery of the computing device has reached or exceeded a first threshold battery charge level e.g. 35 of full charge the computing device may stop charging the battery. The first threshold charge level may be below 100 of full battery charge.

The computing device may discharge its battery responsive to use of the computing device that drains energy from the battery. Upon determining that the computing device has at most a second threshold battery charge e.g. 30 of full charge the computing device may charge its battery. The second threshold battery charge is greater than zero and is at least a predetermined difference below the first threshold battery charge level. The predetermined difference may be at least 5 of the full battery charge. When the computing device is connected to the charging station not being charged the computing device may consume power for operating the computing device from the charging station. The computing device may consume power from the battery upon determining that the power from the charging station is insufficient. If the battery charge level is between the second threshold and the first threshold e.g. between 30 and 35 of full charge and the battery was previously being charged charging may continue. Otherwise charging may not begin until the battery charge level reaches the second threshold. In some cases the first threshold the second threshold and or the difference between the first threshold and the second threshold may be determined based on a preferred battery level which may be provided by the manufacturer. For example a manufacturer may indicate that the preferred battery level is between 35 and 45 of full charge. Based on this information the first threshold may be set to 35 and the second threshold may be set to 45 .

In step the computing device charges using the charging station a battery of the computing device. The battery may be charged by electricity flowing to the computing device over the connection. The connection may include a wire or a wireless connection to a wireless charger.

In step the computing device determines a battery charge level of the battery. The computing device may measure an amount of charge stored in the battery and divide this amount by the maximum possible charge of the battery to determine the battery charge level. In some computing devices the battery charge level is presented adjacent to an edge of a display.

In step the computing device operates in the demo mode. The computing device may run application s associated with the demo mode or play video s associated with the demo mode. The application s or video s may be developed by the manufacturer of the computing device to highlight the key features of the computing device or to interest potential buyers in the computing device. After step the process continues to step or depending on whether the battery charge level is greater than a first threshold e.g. 35 of full charge whether the battery charge level is less than a second threshold e.g. 30 of full charge or whether the battery is currently being charged.

In step the computing device determines whether the battery charge level is greater than the first threshold. If so the process continues to step . If not the process returns to step . In step upon determining that the battery charge level is greater than the first threshold the computing device stops charging the battery. After step the process returns to step . It should be noted that in some cases the battery may not be drained after the computing device stops charging the battery. For example the computing device may restart charging the battery after the battery charge level falls below the second threshold.

In step the computing device determines whether the battery charge level is less than the second threshold. If so the process continues to step . If not the process returns to step . In step upon determining that the battery charge level is less than the second threshold the computing device charges the battery. After step the process returns to step . If the battery charge level is between the second threshold and the first threshold e.g. between 30 and 35 of full charge and the battery was previously being charged charging may continue. Otherwise charging may not begin until the battery charge level reaches the second threshold.

In step the computing device determines whether the battery is being charged. If so the process returns to step . If not the process continues to step . In step upon determining that the battery is not being charged the computing device consumes power for operating the computing device from the charging station. The computing device consumers power from the battery upon determining that the power from the charging station is insufficient. After step the process returns to step . While the battery is being charged the power for operating the computing device may come from either the battery or the charging station.

Some examples of the subject technology include the computing device enabling and or disabling charging of the battery while the computing device is connected to a charging station. The enabling and or disabling may be completed by software that enables and or disables the charging of the battery. For example an application programming interface API may expose the battery charging functionality to a software programmer such as a programmer programming the demo mode interface for the computing device.

Some examples of the subject technology include the computing device entering a demo mode. In some cases the demo mode may be preprogrammed into the computing device. In other cases upon entering the demo mode the computing device may download using a network a demo mode interface from an application server. An example of a network that includes an application server connected to a computing device e.g. a mobile station is described herein in conjunction with . Examples of the application server are described herein in conjunction with .

The wireless mobile communication network might be implemented as a network conforming to the code division multiple access CDMA IS 95 standard the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 wireless IP network standard or the Evolution Data Optimized EVDO standard the Global System for Mobile GSM communication standard a time division multiple access TDMA standard the Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS standard the LTE standard belonging to 3GPP or other standards used for public mobile wireless communications. The mobile stations may be capable of voice telephone communications through the network . Alternatively or additionally the mobile stations and may be capable of data communications through the particular type of network and the users thereof typically will have subscribed to data service through the network .

The network allows users of the mobile stations such as and and other mobile stations not shown to initiate and receive telephone calls to each other as well as through the public switched telephone network or PSTN and telephone stations connected to the PSTN. The network typically offers a variety of data services via the Internet such as downloads web browsing email etc. By way of example the drawing shows a laptop PC type user terminal as well as a server connected to the Internet and the data services for the mobile stations via the Internet may be with devices like those shown at and as well as with a variety of other types of devices or systems capable of data communications through various interconnected networks.

Mobile stations can take the form of portable handsets smart phones or personal digital assistants although they may be implemented in other form factors. Program applications can be configured to execute on many different types of mobile stations . For example a mobile station application can be written to execute on a binary runtime environment for mobile BREW based mobile station a Windows Mobile based mobile station Android I Phone Java Mobile or RIM based mobile station such as a BlackBerry or the like. Some of these types of devices can employ a multi tasking operating system.

The mobile communication network can be implemented by a number of interconnected networks. Hence the overall network may include a number of radio access networks RANs as well as regional ground networks interconnecting a number of RANs and a wide area network WAN interconnecting the regional ground networks to core network elements. A regional portion of the network such as that serving mobile stations can include one or more RANs and a regional circuit and or packet switched network and associated signaling network facilities.

Physical elements of a RAN operated by one of the mobile service providers or carriers include a number of base stations represented in the example by the base stations BSs . Although not separately shown such a base station can include a base transceiver system BTS which can communicate via an antennae system at the site of base station and over the airlink with one or more of the mobile stations when the mobile stations are within range. Each base station can include a BTS coupled to several antennae mounted on a radio tower within a coverage area often referred to as a cell. The BTS is the part of the radio network that sends and receives RF signals to from the mobile stations that are served by the base station .

The radio access networks can also include a traffic network represented generally by the cloud at which carries the user communications and data for the mobile stations between the base stations and other elements with or through which the mobile stations communicate. The network can also include other elements that support functionality other than device to device media transfer services such as messaging service messages and voice communications. Specific elements of the network for carrying the voice and data traffic and for controlling various aspects of the calls or sessions through the network are omitted here form simplicity. It will be understood that the various network elements can communicate with each other and other aspects of the mobile communications network and other networks e.g. the public switched telephone network PSTN and the Internet either directly or indirectly.

The carrier will also operate a number of systems that provide ancillary functions in support of the communications services and or application services provided through the network and those elements communicate with other nodes or elements of the network via one or more private IP type packet data networks sometimes referred to as an Intranet i.e. a private networks. Generally such systems are part of or connected for communication via the private network . A person skilled in the art however would recognize that systems outside of the private network could serve the same functions as well. Examples of such systems in this case operated by the network service provider as part of the overall network which communicate through the intranet type network include one or more application servers and a related authentication server for the application service of server .

A mobile station communicates over the air with a base station and through the traffic network for various voice and data communications e.g. through the Internet with a server and or with application servers . Services offered by the mobile service carrier may be hosted on a carrier operated application server for communication via the networks and . Server such as and may provide any of a variety of common application or service functions in support of or in addition to an application program running on the mobile station . For a given service an application program within the mobile station may be considered as a client and the programming at or may be considered as the server application for the particular service.

To insure that the application service offered by server is available to only authorized devices users the provider of the application service also deploys an authentication server . The authentication server could be a separate physical server as shown or authentication server could be implemented as another program module running on the same hardware platform as the server application . Essentially when the server application server in our example receives a service request from a client application on a mobile station the server application provides appropriate information to the authentication server to allow server application to authenticate the mobile station as outlined herein. Upon successful authentication the server informs the server application which in turn provides access to the service via data communication through the various communication elements e.g. and of the network .

The subject technology may be implemented in conjunction with touch screen type mobile stations as well as to non touch type mobile stations. Hence our simple example shows the mobile station MS as a non touch type mobile station and shows the mobile station MS as a touch screen type mobile station. Some implementation may involve at least some execution of programming in the mobile stations as well as implementation of user input output functions and data communications through the network from the mobile stations. Those skilled in the art presumably are familiar with the structure programming and operations of the various types of mobile stations. However for the sake of completeness two types of mobile stations are described below with respect to .

As shown by the above discussion functions relating to MMS communication may be implemented on computers connected for data communication via the components of a packet data network as shown in . For example the computing device may correspond to the mobile station or the mobile station . Although special purpose devices may be used such devices also may be implemented using one or more hardware platforms intended to represent a general class of data processing device commonly used to run server programming so as to implement the functions discussed above albeit with an appropriate network connection for data communication.

The mobile stations of may correspond to the mobile station . illustrates exemplary non touch type mobile station. illustrates an exemplary touch screen type mobile station.

For digital wireless communications the mobile station also includes at least one digital transceiver XCVR . The mobile station may be configured for digital wireless communications using one or more of the common network technology types. The concepts discussed here encompass embodiments of the mobile station utilizing any digital transceivers that conform to current or future developed digital wireless communication standards. The mobile station may also be capable of analog operation via a legacy network technology.

The transceiver provides two way wireless communication of information such as vocoded speech samples and or digital information in accordance with the technology of the network . The transceiver also sends and receives a variety of signaling messages in support of the various voice and data services provided via the mobile station and the communication network. Each transceiver connects through RF send and receive amplifiers not separately shown to an antenna . The transceiver may also support various types of mobile messaging services such as short message service SMS enhanced messaging service EMS and or multimedia messaging service MMS .

The mobile station includes a display for displaying messages menus or the like call related information dialed by the user calling party numbers etc. A keypad enables dialing digits for voice and or data calls as well as generating selection inputs for example as may be keyed in by the user based on a displayed menu or as a cursor control and selection of a highlighted item on a displayed screen. The display and keypad are the physical elements providing a textual or graphical user interface. Various combinations of the keypad display microphone and speaker may be used as the physical input output elements of the graphical user interface GUI for multimedia e.g. audio and or video communications. Of course other user interface elements may be used such as a trackball as in some types of PDAs or smart phones.

In addition to normal telephone and data communication related input output including message input and message display functions the user interface elements also may be used for display of menus and other information to the user and user input of selections.

A microprocessor serves as a programmable controller for the mobile station in that it controls all operations of the mobile station in accordance with programming that it executes for all normal operations including those under consideration here. In the example the mobile station includes flash type program memory for storage of various software or firmware program routines and mobile configuration settings such as mobile directory number MDN and or mobile identification number MIN etc. The flash type program memory stores programmed instructions including those described herein. The mobile station may include a non volatile random access memory RAM for a working data processing memory. Of course other storage devices or configurations may be added to or substituted for those in the example. In a present implementation the flash type program memory stores firmware such as a boot routine device driver software an operating system call processing software and vocoder control software and any of a wide variety of other applications such as client browser software and short message service software. The memories also store various data such as telephone numbers and server addresses downloaded data such as multimedia content and various data input by the user. Programming stored in the flash type program memory sometimes referred to as firmware is loaded into and executed by the microprocessor .

As outlined above the mobile station includes a processor and programming stored in the flash memory configures the processor so that the mobile station is capable of performing various desired functions including those described herein.

For purposes of such a discussion provides a block diagram illustration of an exemplary touch screen type mobile station . Although possible configured somewhat differently at least logically a number of the elements of the exemplary touch screen type mobile station are similar to the elements of mobile station and are identified by like reference numbers in . For example the touch screen type mobile station includes a microphone speaker and vocoder for audio input and output functions much like in the earlier example. The mobile station also includes at least one digital transceiver XCVR for digital wireless communications although the mobile station may include an additional digital or analog transceiver. The concepts discussed here encompass embodiments of the mobile station utilizing any digital transceivers that conform to current or future developed digital wireless communication standards. As in the mobile station the transceiver provides two way wireless communication of information such as vocoded speech samples and or digital information in accordance with the technology of the network . The transceiver also sends and receives a variety of signaling messages in support of the various voice and data services provided via the mobile station and the network . Each transceiver connects through RF send and receive amplifiers not separately shown to an antenna . The transceiver may also support various types of mobile messaging services such as short message service SMS enhanced messaging service EMS and or multimedia messaging service MMS .

As in the example of the mobile station a microprocessor serves as a programmable controller for the mobile station in that it controls all operations of the mobile station in accordance with programming that it executes for all normal operations and for operations described herein. In the example the mobile station includes flash type program memory for storage of various program routines and mobile configuration settings. The mobile station may also include a non volatile random access memory RAM for a working data processing memory. Of course other storage devices or configurations may be added to or substituted for those in the example. Hence outlined above the mobile station includes a processor and programming stored in the flash memory configures the processor so that the mobile station is capable of performing various desired functions including the functions described herein.

In the example of the user interface elements included a display and a keypad. The mobile station may have a limited number of key s but the user interface functions of the display and keypad are replaced by a touchscreen display arrangement. At a high level a touchscreen display is a device that displays information to a user and can detect occurrence and location of a touch on the area of the display. The touch may be an actual touch of the display device with a finger stylus or other object although at least some touchscreens can also sense when the object is in close proximity to the screen. Use of a touchscreen display as part of the user interface enables a user to interact directly with the information presented on the display.

Hence the exemplary mobile station includes a display which the microprocessor controls via a display driver to present visible outputs to the device user. The mobile station also includes a touch position sensor . The sensor is relatively transparent so that the user may view the information presented on the display . A sense circuit sensing signals from elements of the touch position sensor and detects occurrence and position of each touch of the screen formed by the display and sensor . The sense circuit provides touch position information to the microprocessor which can correlate that information to the information currently displayed via the display to determine the nature of user input via the screen.

The display and touch sensor and possibly one or more keys if included are the physical elements providing the textual and graphical user interface for the mobile station . The microphone and speaker may be used as user interface elements for audio input and output.

The structure and operation of the mobile stations and as outlined above were described to by way of example only.

As known in the data processing and communications arts a general purpose computer typically comprises a central processor or other processing device an internal communication bus various types of memory or storage media RAM ROM EEPROM cache memory disk drives etc. for code and data storage and one or more network interface cards or ports for communication purposes. The software functionalities involve programming including executable code as well as associated stored data. In operation the code is stored within the general purpose computer platform. At other times however the software may be stored at other locations and or transported for loading into the appropriate general purpose computer system. Execution of such code by a processor of the computer platform enables the platform to implement the methodology described herein.

A server for example includes a data communication interface for packet data communication. The server also includes a central processing unit CPU in the form of one or more processors for executing program instructions. The server platform typically includes an internal communication bus program storage and data storage for various data files to be processed and or communicated by the server although the server often receives programming and data via network communications. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such servers are conventional in nature. Of course the server functions may be implemented in a distributed fashion on a number of similar platforms to distribute the processing load.

A computer type user terminal device such as a PC or tablet computer similarly includes a data communication interface CPU main memory and one or more mass storage devices for storing user data and the various executable programs see . A mobile station type user terminal may include similar elements but will typically use smaller components that also require less power to facilitate implementation in a portable form factor. The various types of user terminal devices will also include various user input and output elements. A computer for example may include a keyboard and a cursor control selection device such as a mouse trackball joystick or touchpad and a display for visual outputs. A microphone and speaker enable audio input and output. Some smartphones include similar but smaller input and output elements. Tablets and other types of smartphones utilize touch sensitive display screens instead of separate keyboard and cursor control elements. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such user terminal devices also are conventional in nature.

Hence examples of the methods of determining an action plan with respect to a returned device outlined above may be embodied in programming. Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Storage type media include any or all of the tangible memory of the computers processors or the like or associated modules thereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide non transitory storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such communications for example may enable loading of the software from one computer or processor into another. Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein unless restricted to non transitory tangible storage media terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution.

Hence a machine readable medium may take many forms including but not limited to a tangible storage medium a carrier wave medium or physical transmission medium. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s or the like such as may be used to implement the demo consumer switching module the demo mode module the consumer mode module etc. shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as main memory of such a computer platform. Tangible transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier wave transmission media may take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals or acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a Blu ray disc read only memory BD ROM CD ROM DVD or DVD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical storage medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave transporting data or instructions cables or links transporting such a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer may read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution.

These general and specific aspects may be implemented using a system a method a computer program a computer readable medium or an apparatus or any combination of systems methods computer programs computer readable mediums and or apparatuses

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

Unless otherwise stated all measurements values ratings positions magnitudes sizes and other specifications that are set forth in this specification including in the claims that follow are approximate not exact. They are intended to have a reasonable range that is consistent with the functions to which they relate and with what is customary in the art to which they pertain.

The scope of protection is limited solely by the claims that now follow. That scope is intended and may be interpreted to be as broad as is consistent with the ordinary meaning of the language that is used in the claims when interpreted in light of this specification and the prosecution history that follows and to encompass all structural and functional equivalents. Notwithstanding none of the claims are intended to embrace subject matter that fails to satisfy the requirement of Sections 101 102 or 103 of the Patent Act should may they be interpreted in such a way. Any unintended embracement of such subject matter is hereby disclaimed.

Except as stated immediately above nothing that has been stated or illustrated is intended or should be interpreted to cause a dedication of any component step feature object benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether it is or is not recited in the claims.

It will be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions with respect to their corresponding respective areas of inquiry and study except where specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein. Relational terms such as first and second and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by a or an does not without further constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

