---

title: Wireless terminal, information providing method, and information providing system
abstract: A wireless terminal according to an embodiment includes a display unit, a wireless LAN communication unit, a wireless WAN communication unit, and a control unit. The control unit acquires, when a radio wave intensity of a wireless signal output from a wireless LAN access point detected by the wireless LAN communication unit satisfies a predetermined condition, notification information corresponding to the wireless LAN access point by the wireless WAN communication unit or by the wireless LAN communication unit, and to indicates the notification information with an indication unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09467929&OS=09467929&RS=09467929
owner: YAHOO JAPAN CORPORATION
number: 09467929
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140110
---
The present application claims priority to and incorporates by reference the entire contents of Japanese Patent Application No. 2013 012548 filed in Japan on Jan. 25 2013.

The present invention relates to a wireless terminal an information providing method and an information providing system.

In recent years a wireless local area network LAN communication has rapidly spread. Wireless LAN access points are installed in various places such as stations airports and stores and a wireless LAN communication function has been equipped with various mobile devices such as personal computers mobile phone devices and portable game devices as a standard function. Such wireless LAN communication is expected to further spread and users of the mobile devices that are wireless terminals are expected to be able to use a connection environment to the high speed Internet in more various locations.

In such a communication environment for example Japanese Laid open Patent Publication No. 2005 107897 discloses a technology in which when a wireless terminal existing in an access point is detected information corresponding to the access point is notified from an information distribution control device to a wireless terminal by an e mail.

However in the above conventional technology the information corresponding to the access point is transmitted by an e mail. Therefore the information may not be promptly delivered. Therefore transmission of the information from the information distribution control device to the wireless terminal through the access point can be considered.

However when the user of the wireless terminal moves in communication areas of a large number of access points information corresponding to the large number of access points is displayed in the wireless terminal. Therefore the user of the wireless terminal may have an unpleasant feeling similarly to a spam mail.

According to an exemplary embodiment a wireless terminal includes a wireless LAN communication unit a wireless WAN communication unit and a control unit. The control unit acquires when a radio wave intensity of a wireless signal output from a wireless LAN access point detected by the wireless LAN communication unit satisfies a predetermined condition notification information corresponding to the wireless LAN access point by the wireless LAN communication unit or the wireless WAN communication unit and indicates the notification information in the indication unit.

The above and other objects features advantages and technical and industrial significance of this invention will be better understood by reading the following detailed description of presently preferred embodiments of the invention when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings.

Hereinafter embodiments of a wireless terminal an information providing method and an information providing system according to the present application will be described in detail with reference to the drawings. Note that the wireless terminal the information providing method and the information providing system according to the present application are not limited by the embodiments.

First a configuration of an information providing system according to a first embodiment will be described. is a diagram illustrating a configuration of an information providing system of an embodiment.

As illustrated in an information providing system according to the first embodiment includes a plurality of wireless local area network LAN access points and an information providing apparatus. The wireless LAN access points and the information providing apparatus are connected through a communication network. The communication network is for example an Internet protocol IP network such as the Internet.

A mobile phone communication network that is a wide area network WAN is connected to the communication network through a gateway server not illustrated and a mobile phone base station an example of a wireless WAN base station is connected to the mobile phone communication network.

The wireless LAN access point includes a wireless LAN communication unit and can mutually perform wireless communication with a wireless terminal by the wireless LAN communication unit. The wireless LAN access point covers as a wireless LAN communication area hereinafter described as AP communication area commercial spaces such as a station a shopping street and an event site where concerts and sports are performed in addition to a store a restaurant a beauty salon a barber a hospital a hotel a movie theater and a complex leisure facility.

Further the wireless LAN access point includes a communication unit connected with the communication network and has a relay function to relay transmission reception data between a wireless terminal and a communication network side. A communication network side device is for example the information providing apparatus or a web server for example a web site connected to the communication network.

The information providing apparatus includes a database hereinafter described as DB that stores LAN notification information and WAN notification information corresponding to the wireless LAN access point. The LAN notification information is information notified from the wireless LAN access point and the WAN notification information is information notified from the mobile phone base station.

The information providing apparatus acquires from the DB and transmits to the wireless terminal that has entered an AP communication area of a wireless LAN access point one of the LAN notification information and the WAN notification information corresponding to the wireless LAN access point where the wireless terminal exists.

The wireless terminal can transmit receive data to from the communication network side device through the mobile phone base station. Further the wireless terminal is a mobile phone device equipped with a wireless LAN communication function and can transmit receive data to from the communication network side device through the wireless LAN access point in the AP communication area of the wireless LAN access point.

The wireless terminal detects a radio wave intensity of a wireless signal transmitted from a wireless LAN access point and determines a wireless LAN access point in which the radio wave intensity of the wireless signal satisfies a predetermined condition as an object from which the notification information is acquired hereinafter described as notification acquisition object . For example the wireless terminal determines as the notification acquisition object a wireless LAN access point falling within a predetermined higher rank in a ranking determined on the basis of the radio wave intensity of the wireless signal.

When having entered the AP communication area of the wireless LAN access point determined as the notification acquisition object the wireless terminal acquires outputs and displays the notification information from the information providing apparatus through the wireless LAN access point or the mobile phone base station.

Next an example of an information providing method by the information providing system according to the first embodiment will be described. is an explanatory diagram of an information providing method according to the first embodiment.

When a user of the wireless terminal hereinafter may be described as terminal user passes through a plurality of AP communication areas as described in a control unit of the wireless terminal receives wireless signals from the plurality of wireless LAN access points a plurality of APs in steps S S and S and detects the radio wave intensity of the wireless signals steps S S and S . The control unit of the wireless terminal stores information on the detected radio wave intensity in a storage unit. Note that here as an example the radio wave intensity of the wireless signals respectively received from twenty wireless LAN access points are detected.

Following that the control unit of the wireless terminal determines a wireless LAN access point that is to serve as a notification acquisition object step S . In the processing the control unit of the wireless terminal determines as the notification acquisition object a wireless LAN access point falling within the predetermined higher rank K1 in the ranking determined on the basis of the information on the radio wave intensity of each wireless LAN access point stored in the storage unit.

As described above the notification information includes the LAN notification information and the WAN notification information and the control unit of the wireless terminal determines as the notification acquisition object of the LAN notification information a wireless LAN access point falling within a predetermined highest rank K2 for example within the third rank in the ranking determined on the basis of the radio wave intensity of the wireless signal. Further the control unit of the wireless terminal determines as the notification acquisition object of the WAN notification information a wireless LAN access that is in the predetermined higher rank K1 for example within the fifth rank or more and in less than the predetermined highest rank K2 in the ranking determined on the basis of the radio wave intensity of the wireless signal.

The control unit of the wireless terminal transmits information on the notification acquisition object to the information providing apparatus step S and the control unit of the information providing apparatus stores the information on the notification acquisition object acquired from the wireless terminal in the DB step S . The information on the notification acquisition object includes a terminal ID of the wireless terminal identification information of the wireless LAN access point and a type of the notification information.

Following that when having entered the AP communication area of the wireless LAN access point determined as the notification acquisition object the control unit of the wireless terminal outputs a wireless signal to the wireless LAN access point step S . The wireless signal includes the terminal ID of the wireless terminal and when having acquired the wireless signal from the wireless terminal the wireless LAN access point transmits terminal information including the acquired information to the information providing apparatus step S .

When having determined that the wireless LAN access point having transmitted the terminal information is the wireless LAN access point serving as the notification acquisition object on the basis of the information on the notification acquisition object stored in the storage unit the information providing apparatus determines a communication medium to be transmitted to the wireless terminal having entered the wireless LAN access point step S .

In the processing of step S when the wireless LAN access point is specified by the information on the notification acquisition object the information providing apparatus transmits the LAN notification information to the wireless LAN access point step S and causes the wireless LAN access point to notify the wireless terminal of the notification information step S . Meanwhile when the mobile phone base station is specified by the information on the notification acquisition object the information providing apparatus transmits the notification information directing the wireless terminal from the communication network to the mobile phone communication network step S and causes the mobile phone base station to notify the wireless terminal of the notification information step S .

When having received the notification information from the wireless LAN access point or the mobile phone base station the wireless terminal indicates the notification information in the indication unit step S . The notification information displayed as described above is notification information corresponding to the wireless LAN access point that has detected the wireless terminal. For example information related to an A store that is an installation location of the wireless LAN access point hereinafter may be described as AP installation location is indicated in the indication unit of the wireless terminal as the notification information. Note that when the notification information is image information an image based on the image information is indicated in the indication unit and when the notification information is sound information a sound based on the sound information is output from the indication unit. Further when the notification information is vibration information a vibration based on the vibration information is output from the indication unit.

Further when having acquired the notification information the wireless terminal may notify the acquisition of the notification information from the indication unit. For example when having acquired the notification information the wireless terminal may notify the acquisition of the notification information by an output of a sound by an output of a vibration or by both of the outputs of a sound vibration.

As described above in the information providing system according to the first embodiment when the wireless terminal enters the AP communication area of the wireless LAN access point the notification information corresponding to the wireless LAN access point is notified to the wireless terminal.

Therefore for example when a wireless LAN access point is installed in a store information on the store can be notified to the terminal user who has entered the store whereby the information on the store can be effectively notified to the terminal user. Further for the wireless terminal user information irrelevant to the store that the user entered is not disorderly notified and the terminal user does not have an unpleasant feeling.

Furthermore in the wireless terminal according to the first embodiment when having entered the AP communication area of the wireless LAN access point in which the radio wave intensity of the wireless signal received from the wireless LAN access point satisfies a predetermined condition the wireless terminal acquires and indicates the notification information corresponding to the wireless LAN access point.

Therefore the terminal user can avoid a situation in which the notification information corresponding to the wireless LAN access point that the terminal user has entered is indicated in the wireless terminal without any restriction and whereby the notification of information to the terminal user can be properly performed.

Hereinafter a specific configuration and specific processing of the information providing system will be more specifically described with reference to the drawings.

A specific configuration example of the information providing system according to the first embodiment will be described with reference to . is a diagram illustrating a specific configuration example of the information providing system according to the first embodiment.

As illustrated in an information providing system includes a plurality of wireless terminals to a plurality of wireless LAN access points to and an information providing apparatus and provides the wireless terminals to with various types of information through a path selected from the information providing apparatus .

The wireless terminals to are mobile phone devices including a wireless LAN communication function like a smart phone and are owned by respective users. Note that when it is not necessary to distinguish the wireless terminals to the wireless terminals to are collectively written as wireless terminal .

The wireless LAN access points to and the information providing apparatus are managed by for example an information delivery service provider. Note that when it is not necessary to distinguish the wireless LAN access points to the wireless LAN access points to are collectively written as wireless LAN access point .

The wireless LAN access point is connected with the information providing apparatus through a communication network and the information providing apparatus can provide the wireless terminal with various types of information from the wireless LAN access point through the communication network . In the present embodiment description will be given in which the communication network is the Internet. However the communication network is not limited to the Internet and may be a network exclusively provided for the information delivery service provider for example.

Further a mobile phone communication network is connected to the communication network through gateway servers and and the information providing apparatus can cause mobile phone base stations to connected to the mobile phone communication network to transmit information to the wireless terminal through the communication network . Note that when it is not necessary to distinguish the mobile phone base stations to the mobile phone base stations to are collectively written as mobile phone base station .

Here the mobile phone communication network has been exemplarily described as the communication network to which the wireless WAN base station is connected. However the communication network to which the wireless WAN base station is connected is not limited to the mobile phone communication network . For example the communication network to which the wireless WAN base station is connected may be a data communication private network. In this case the wireless WAN base station is a wireless base station of the data communication private network and information is transmitted from the wireless base station to the wireless terminal .

Hereinafter specific configurations of the wireless terminal the wireless LAN access point and the information providing apparatus will be respectively described in that order.

The wireless LAN communication unit transmits receive information to from the wireless LAN access point . The wireless LAN communication unit also has a function to detect the radio wave intensity of the wireless signal transmitted from the wireless LAN access point and outputs the radio wave intensity to the control unit . Note that an example of the wireless LAN includes a wireless LAN specified by IEEE 802.11. However the wireless LAN is not limited to the wireless LAN of the standard.

The wireless WAN communication unit transmits receives information to from the mobile phone base station . The mobile phone base station is a wireless base station of a public phone communication network or a wireless base station of a public data communication network for example.

The display unit is a touch panel type display. The user of the wireless terminal can operate the operation screen of the information notification app displayed in the display unit by operating a surface of a screen of the display unit by a finger or the like. The display unit is for example a small liquid crystal display LCD or an organic EL display. Note that the display unit has been exemplarily illustrated as an example of the indication unit. However as described above the notification information may be the sound information the vibration information or the like. In this case the sound output unit that outputs a sound based on the sound information is an example of the indication unit and the vibration output unit that vibrates based on the vibration information is an example of the indication unit.

The operation unit includes keyboards including a key an enter key and an arrow key for inputting a letter a number and a space a power button and the like.

The storage unit is for example a random access memory RAM a semiconductor memory device such as a flash memory or a storage device such as a hard disk or an optical disk. The storage unit stores various programs setting data and the like. Examples of the programs stored in the storage unit include for example programs of an operating system OS and of information notification application hereinafter information notification app . The control unit of the wireless terminal acquires for example program data of the information notification app through the communication network and stores the program data in the storage unit .

The control unit is realized for example by an integrated circuit such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a field programmable gate array FPGA . Further the control unit realizes or executes a function or an action of information processing described below by the program stored in the storage unit being executed by a central processing unit CPU or a micro processing unit MPU using an internal RAM not illustrated as a work area.

The control unit functions as an information management unit and a display control unit by executing the information notification app in which the program data is stored in the storage unit . Further the control unit stores an initial value of the setting data of the information notification app an AP information table and a notification AP information table in the storage unit by executing the information notification app the program data of which is stored in the storage unit for example.

Note that the configuration of the control unit is not limited to the above configuration and may be any configuration as long as the configuration performs information processing described below. Further the function of the information notification app can be set to the control unit in advance.

The information management unit acquires the information on the wireless LAN access point hereinafter described as AP detection information for the wireless LAN communication unit with a predetermined period for example every one second and stores the acquired information in the storage unit . This enables acquisition history of the AP detection information to be stored in the storage unit .

The AP LID is a media access control address MAC address of a wireless LAN communication unit of the wireless LAN access point for example and is included in the wireless signal hereinafter described as AP wireless signal transmitted from the wireless LAN access point . Note that any information other than the MAC address of the wireless LAN communication unit can be employed as long as the wireless LAN access point can be identified with the information.

The radio wave intensity is information on radio wave intensity of the AP wireless signal. Here the radio wave intensity of the AP wireless signal is an intensity level in which a value becomes larger as the intensity becomes higher within a range of 0 to 10. However the radio wave intensity can be set by another unit for example dBm .

The detected time is a time at which the wireless LAN communication unit detects the radio wave intensity of the AP wireless signal. Note that when not being able to acquire information on the detected time from the wireless LAN communication unit the information management unit stores a time at which the information management unit has acquired the information on the radio wave intensity of the AP wireless signal or the like from the wireless LAN communication unit in the storage unit as the AP detection information in place of the detected time .

As described above the information management unit acquires and stores the AP detection information related to the AP communication area that the wireless terminal has entered in the storage unit and determines a wireless LAN access point to serve as the notification acquisition object on the basis of the AP detection information.

To be specific the information management unit obtains as AP unit information average radio wave intensity an average stay time and the number of entrance for each wireless LAN access point of the AP communication area that the wireless terminal has entered on the basis of the AP detection information stored in the storage unit . The information management unit then sets the AP unit information to the AP information table stored in the storage unit .

The average radio wave intensity is an average value of the radio wave intensity of the AP wireless signal received in the AP communication are that the wireless terminal has entered and the information management unit obtains the average radio wave intensity on the basis of the radio wave intensity of the AP wireless signal received in the wireless LAN communication unit during a predetermined term Ta.

The average stay time is an average value of the stay time in the AP communication area that the wireless terminal has entered and the information management unit obtains the average stay time on the basis of a detected time or an acquired time output from the wireless LAN communication unit during the predetermined term Ta. For example when the detected time is continued in the AP detection information of the same AP LID the information management unit determines that the wireless terminal is in a staying state in the AP communication area and determines a term until the detected time become discontinued as a stay time and an average value of the stay time as the average stay time .

The the number of entrance is the number of entrance of the wireless terminal to the AP communication area and when the detected time is continued for a predetermined time or more in the AP detection information of the same AP LID the information management unit determines that the wireless terminal is in a staying state in the AP communication area and increments the the number of entrance .

In the AP information table illustrated in for example in the AP communication area of an AP LID A1 the average value of the radio wave intensity of the AP wireless signal received by the wireless terminal is 10 the average value of the stay time of the wireless terminal is 30 seconds and the number of entrance is once .

Note that the above described predetermined term Ta can be set by the user through the setting screen of the information notification app. The setting screen of the information notification app is displayed by the display control unit in the display unit on the basis of the setting data stored in the storage unit and in a display state the setting data of the storage unit can be updated according to operation details by a user operation to the display unit or the operation unit .

Further while the user of the wireless terminal can set the value of the predetermined term Ta through the setting screen of the information notification app as described above the user can select an automatic mode in which the value of the predetermined term Ta is automatically set. In the automatic mode the information management unit uses a term until a predetermined condition is satisfied as the predetermined term Ta.

As the predetermined condition the number of pieces of AP detection information newly stored in the storage unit the number of AP LIDs included in the AP detection information newly stored in the storage unit or a combination thereof. For example the information management unit can set the predetermined term Ta subject to a predetermined condition that the number of pieces of the AP detection information newly stored in the storage unit is a predetermined number or more and the number of the AP LIDs included in the AP detection information newly stored in the storage unit is a predetermined number or more.

When the user manually sets the predetermined term Ta for example a term from a present time to a predetermined time in the past can be employed as the predetermined term Ta for example from the present to five hours ago one day ago one week ago one month ago or the like .

As described above the information management unit obtains the average radio wave intensity the average stay time and the number of entrance in units of AP communication area that the wireless terminal has entered and determines a wireless LAN access point to serve as the notification acquisition object on the basis of the information.

The information management unit has a first determination mode and a second determination mode as modes to determine the notification acquisition object and whether which mode is used to determine the notification acquisition object can be set by the user through the setting screen of the information notification app similarly to the predetermined term Ta.

First the first determination mode will be described. When the first determination mode is set the information management unit determines as the notification acquisition object a wireless LAN access point falling within the predetermined higher rank K1 in the ranking determined on the basis of the information on the radio wave intensity of the wireless LAN access point .

To be specific the information management unit extracts the AP LIDs in order from an AP LID having the highest intensity from among average radio wave intensities set to the AP information table and determines as the notification acquisition object a wireless LAN access point corresponding to an AP LID falling within the predetermined higher rank K1 in the ranking.

In the processing the information management unit determines as a LAN notification acquisition object a wireless LAN access point falling within the predetermined highest rank K2 

The information management unit sets a determination result in the notification AP information table of the storage unit . is a diagram illustrating an example of the notification AP information table. As illustrated in the notification AP information table is information in which a rank an AP LID and a communication medium are associated with each other.

The rank is an rank determined on the basis of the radio wave intensity of the AP wireless signal hereinafter described as AP rank and the information management unit causes the wireless LAN access point having higher average radio wave intensity to be in a higher rank. Note that the AP rank can be determined in consideration of not only the average radio wave intensity but also the average stay time.

For example the information management unit can cause a wireless LAN access point which obtains a larger result as a result of weighting performed with respect to the average radio wave intensity according to the average stay time to be in a higher rank. Further the information management unit can also cause a wireless LAN access point which obtains a larger result as a result of weighting performed with respect to the average radio wave intensity according to the average stay time and the number of entrance to be in a higher rank.

The second determination mode will be described. When the second determination mode is set the information management unit determines a wireless LAN access point corresponding to the AP unit information that satisfies a condition set by the user of the wireless terminal hereinafter described as notification object condition from among pieces of AP unit information set to the AP information table as the notification acquisition object.

The notification object condition can be set by the user of the wireless terminal through the setting screen of the information notification app similarly to the predetermined term Ta. Information on the notification object condition set by the user of the wireless terminal is stored in the storage unit . The information management unit determines the notification acquisition object on the basis of the information on the notification object condition stored in the storage unit .

As the notification object condition one lower limit value or two or more lower limit values of the average radio wave intensity the average stay time and the number of entrance can be set. For example when the lower limit value of the average radio wave intensity is 3 and the lower limit value of the average stay time is 20 seconds the information management unit determines a wireless LAN access point corresponding to the AP unit information including the average radio wave intensity of 3 or more and the average stay time of 20 seconds or more to be the notification acquisition object.

Note that the determination of the notification acquisition object can be performed in synchronization with an update of the AP information table for example and the timing can be set by the user of the wireless terminal through the setting screen of the information notification app similarly to the notification object condition. Further a determination timing update button is provided on the setting screen of the information notification app and when the determination timing update button is selected by the user of the wireless terminal the information management unit can start the processing of determining the notification acquisition object.

When having determined the notification acquisition object as described above the information management unit transmits information on the notification acquisition object to the information providing apparatus through the wireless LAN communication unit or the wireless WAN communication unit . Note that when having entered the wireless LAN access point to serve as the notification acquisition object the information management unit can transmit the information on the notification acquisition object to the information providing apparatus through the wireless LAN access point .

Next the display control unit will be described. The display control unit displays the notification information transmitted from the information providing apparatus and received by the wireless LAN communication unit or the wireless WAN communication unit in the display unit .

A communication speed of communication through the wireless LAN access point is sometimes relatively fast. Therefore even if the notification information is information having a relatively large information amount the notification information can be acquired by the wireless terminal at a high speed. Therefore the notification information can be notified to the wireless terminal at an appropriate timing. Further a communication charge of the communication through the wireless LAN access point is often low or zero and a charge burden of the user of the wireless terminal is low.

The communication speed of the communication through the mobile phone base station is often relatively slow. Therefore by using the information having a relatively small information amount as the notification information the notification information can be acquired by the wireless terminal at a high speed and the notification information can be notified to the wireless terminal at an appropriate timing. The communication charge of the communication through the mobile phone base station is relatively high and a use upper limit is often determined. Therefore a user burden of the user of the wireless terminal can be reduced.

Note that the display control unit performs other display control necessary in the information notification app. For example the display control unit displays the setting screen of the information notification app in the display unit on the basis of layout data of the setting screen of the information notification app and the setting data stored in the storage unit .

Further the display control unit can notify the acquisition of the notification information from the indication unit. For example the display control unit can notify the acquisition of the notification information by an output of a sound from a sound output unit not illustrated by an output of a vibration from a vibration output unit not illustrated or by outputs of both of the sound vibration from the sound output unit and the vibration output unit.

First a configuration of the wireless LAN access point will be specifically described. As illustrated in the wireless LAN access point includes a wireless LAN communication unit a communication unit and a control unit .

The wireless LAN communication unit is installed such that an area including a location to serve as an object can be the communication area. The wireless LAN communication unit is a communication interface that performs wireless LAN communication and transmits receives information by wireless signals to from the wireless terminal equipped with a wireless LAN communication function.

The communication unit is connected to the communication network and transmits receives information to from the information providing apparatus and a web site not illustrated through the communication network . The communication unit is connected to the communication network in a wired or wireless manner. Hereinafter a device such as the information providing apparatus or a web server not illustrated connected to the communication network is described as a communication network side device.

The control unit includes a relay unit that performs information relay processing and a detection unit that performs detection processing of the wireless terminal and realizes or executes a function or an action of the information processing described below. Note that the internal configuration of the control unit is not limited to the configuration and may be another configuration as long as the configuration performs the information processing described below.

The relay unit transmits information acquired from the wireless terminal through the wireless LAN communication unit to the communication network side device from the communication unit and transmits information acquired from the communication network side device through the communication unit to the wireless terminal from the wireless LAN communication unit .

Note that the information transmission from the wireless LAN access point to the communication network side device is performed for example by packet communication in which an address of the communication network to be allocated to the wireless LAN access point is a transmission source address and an address of the communication network to be allocated to the communication network side device is a transmission destination address. The address of the communication network is for example an address to be allocated to the communication unit and is for example an IP address.

The detection unit acquires a wireless packet transmitted from the wireless terminal through the wireless LAN communication unit to detect existence of the wireless terminal . are diagrams illustrating sequences of establishing a session between the wireless LAN access point and the wireless terminal .

In the example illustrated in a wireless packet called probe request is periodically transmitted from the wireless terminal by broadcast or the like and the detection unit acquires the wireless packet through the wireless LAN communication unit to detect the existence of the wireless terminal .

The probe request includes a basic service set identifier BSSID and when the BSSID coincides with a BSSID of the wireless LAN communication unit the detection unit transmits a probe response to the wireless terminal . The wireless terminal that has received the probe response transfers to a during communication state in a case where automatic communication is set.

The transfer to the during communication state is performed as illustrated in by establishment of a session by an association request and an association response and following that the wireless terminal and the wireless LAN communication unit transmit receive a data frame and a control frame each other to enter the during communication state.

Further the detection unit broadcasts a wireless packet called beacon to the wireless terminal to which the wireless packet is not periodically transmitted through the wireless LAN communication unit as illustrated in and receives an association request with respect to the beacon to detect the existence of the wireless terminal . The detection unit that has received the association request transmits an association response to the wireless terminal to establish a session and causes the wireless terminal and the wireless LAN communication unit to be in the during communication state.

When having transferred to the during communication state the detection unit repeatedly receives a wireless packet until the during communication state is cancelled and detects the existence of the wireless terminal . Note that the during communication state is cancelled when a disconnect request is given from the wireless terminal or when the wireless packet cannot be transmitted received between the wireless terminal and the wireless LAN communication unit .

When having determined to have detected the wireless terminal for example the detection unit transmits terminal information of the wireless terminal to the information providing apparatus through the communication unit . To be specific the detection unit extracts a terminal ID included in the wireless packet transmitted from the wireless terminal and detects radio wave intensity.

The terminal ID is for example a MAC address of the wireless LAN communication unit of the wireless terminal and is added to the wireless packet and transmitted from the wireless terminal . The radio wave intensity is radio wave intensity of a wireless signal received by the wireless LAN access point .

The detection unit transmits an AP WID and information on whether being in the during communication state in addition to the terminal ID of the wireless terminal and information on the radio wave intensity to the information providing apparatus as the terminal information. As the AP WID for example a network address of the communication network to be allocated to the communication unit can be used.

Next a specific configuration of the information providing apparatus according to the embodiment will be described. As illustrated in the information providing apparatus includes a communication unit a storage unit and a control unit . Further the storage unit includes a user information DB and a location information DB and the control unit includes an acquisition unit a determination unit a transmission unit and an information providing unit .

The communication unit is an interface such as a network interface card NIC . The control unit transmits receives various types of information to from the wireless LAN access point through the communication unit and the communication network and to from the wireless terminal through the wireless LAN access point .

The user information DB and the location information DB are storage devices such as a hard disk a RAM a semiconductor memory device such as a flash memory or an optical disk. Note that the user information DB and the location information DB may be a single DB. Note that the various IDs stored in the user information DB and the location information DB are described using the reference signs A1 and U1 . These reference signs are denoted in order to distinguish the IDs for convenience of description and are not given for the purpose of limiting the IDs.

The control unit is realized for example by an integrated circuit such as an ASIC or a FPGA. Further the control unit functions as the acquisition unit the determination unit the transmission unit and the information providing unit by a program stored in the internal storage device being executed by a CPU or a MPU using a RAM as a work area. Note that the configuration of the control unit is not limited to the configuration and may be another configuration as long as the configuration performs information processing described below.

The acquisition unit acquires the information transmitted from the wireless LAN access point . The information transmitted from the wireless LAN access point includes for example the terminal information as described above. When having acquired the terminal information transmitted from the wireless LAN access point the acquisition unit updates the terminal information table of the location information DB on the basis of the information included in the terminal information.

The AP WID is identification information of the wireless LAN access point and is information to be allocated to each wireless LAN access point . The AP WID is for example a network address of the communication network to be allocated to the communication unit of the wireless LAN access point .

The terminal ID is a terminal ID of the wireless terminal existing in the AP communication area of the associated wireless LAN access point . For example the example of illustrates wireless terminals to of terminal IDs T1 to T4 and the like exist in the AP communication area of the wireless LAN access point of the AP WID AW1 .

The radio wave intensity is information on the radio wave intensity of the wireless terminal existing in the AP communication area. The example in illustrates information on latest radio wave intensity corresponding to each terminal ID for the purpose of convenience. However information on the radio wave intensity from when the wireless terminal entered the AP communication area and an average value thereof are set to the terminal information table. Further the example of illustrates the radio wave intensity by an intensity level similarly to in which a value becomes larger as the intensity becomes higher within a range of 0 to 10. However the radio wave intensity can be set by another unit for example dBm .

When having received the terminal information including the information on being in the during communication state from the wireless LAN access point the acquisition unit sets the terminal ID and the information on the radio wave intensity included in the detection information to the terminal existence data in association with the AP WID included in the terminal information. Further the acquisition unit sets a time at which the wireless terminal has entered the during communication state to the terminal information table as a check in time .

A stay time of the wireless terminal in the AP communication area can be detected by comparison of the check in time and a current time. Note that the acquisition unit can set a time at which reception of the terminal information is started to the terminal information table as an enter time independently of whether being in the during communication state.

When the wireless terminal the information on which has been set to the terminal information table exits from the AP communication area afterwards the acquisition unit sets the exit time of the wireless terminal to the terminal information table as a check out time .

Further when having acquired the information on the notification acquisition object from the wireless terminal the acquisition unit sets the information on the notification acquisition object to a user information table described below.

The determination unit determines whether either communication medium of the wireless LAN access point or the mobile phone base station is used to notify the notification information on the basis of the terminal information table and the user information table.

To be specific the determination unit determines whether there is a wireless terminal having newly entered the AP communication area hereinafter may be described as newly entering terminal on the basis of the terminal information table. For example the determination unit determines a wireless terminal in which a new check in time is set to the terminal information table as the newly entering terminal.

Note that the determination unit can determine a wireless terminal in which a new check in time is set to the terminal information table and the stay time is a predetermined time as the newly entering terminal. Further the determination unit can determine a wireless terminal in which a new check in time is set to the terminal information table the stay time passes a predetermined time and the radio wave intensity has a predetermined value or more as the newly entering terminal.

When there is a newly entering terminal the determination unit determined whether notifying the notification information on the basis of the user information table stored in the user information DB . The AP LID of the wireless LAN access point of the notification acquisition object is set to the user information table as the notification object AP. When an AP LID corresponding to the newly entering terminal is set to the user information table the determination unit determines to notify the notification information and when the AP LID corresponding to the newly entering terminal is not set to the user information table the determination unit determines not to notify the notification information.

The user ID is an ID allocated to each user of the wireless terminal and is set to the user information table by the acquisition unit when the wireless terminal performs user registration to the information providing apparatus for example.

The terminal ID is identification information of the wireless terminal at a wireless LAN communication unit side and is a MAC address allocated to the wireless LAN communication unit of the wireless terminal for example. In this case the wireless terminal transmits receives a wireless packet including the terminal ID to perform communication with the wireless LAN access point . Note that the terminal ID may just be able to identify the wireless terminal and is not necessarily limited to the MAC address.

The WAN ID is identification information of the wireless terminal at a mobile phone communication unit side. For example when the wireless terminal is a third generation mobile communication system the WAN ID is a unique number of a subscriber identity module card SIM card incorporated in the wireless terminal . The unique number is also called international mobile subscriber identity IMSI . The wireless terminal transmits receives a wireless packet including the WAN ID to perform communication with the mobile phone base station .

The notification object AP is an AP LID of the wireless LAN access point specified as the notification acquisition object from the wireless terminal . The notification object AP includes a LAN notification object AP and a WAN notification object AP. The notification object AP is set to the user information table by the acquisition unit when the information on the notification acquisition object is transmitted from the wireless terminal to the information providing apparatus .

When the AP LID corresponding to the newly entering terminal is set to the user information table the determination unit determines to notify the notification information. The notification information is notified from a communication medium of either the wireless LAN access point or the mobile phone base station hereinafter may be described as notification communication medium .

When the AP LID corresponding to the newly entering terminal is set as the LAN notification object AP the determination unit determines the notification communication medium is the wireless LAN access point . Meanwhile when the AP LID corresponding to the newly entering terminal is set as the WAN notification object AP the determination unit determines the notification communication medium is the mobile phone base station .

The transmission unit causes the notification communication medium determined by the determination unit to notify the newly entering terminal identified by the terminal information of the notification information of the location information table stored in the location information DB .

The transmission unit acquires the notification information corresponding to the notification communication medium from the location information table stored in the location information DB transmits the notification information to a destination based on the user information table stored in the user information DB and causes the notification communication medium to notify the newly entering terminal of the notification information.

The AP LID is information similar to the AP LID set to the AP information table and the AP WID is information similar to the AP WID set to the terminal information table. Further the location name is a name of an AP installation location and for example the location name is an A store in the AP LID AL1 .

The LAN notification information is information indicating a file name of the notification information to be notified to the wireless terminal through the wireless LAN access point and is stored in the location information DB . Further the WAN notification information is information indicating a file name of the notification information to be notified to the wireless terminal through the mobile phone base station and is stored in the location information DB .

In the location information table illustrated in for example the LAN notification information of the AP LID AL1 is a file name noticeA11.data and the WAN notification information is a file name noticeA12.data .

When the notification communication medium is the wireless LAN access point the transmission unit acquires the LAN notification information set to the location information table and transmits the LAN notification information to the wireless LAN access point using the terminal ID set to the user information table as the destination for the newly entering terminal. Accordingly the WAN notification information is notified from the wireless LAN access point to the newly entering terminal.

Further when the notification communication medium is the mobile phone base station the transmission unit acquires the WAN notification information set to the location information table and transmits the WAN notification information to the mobile phone communication network through the communication network using the WAN ID set to the user information table for the newly entering terminal. Accordingly the LAN notification information is notified from the mobile phone base station to the newly entering terminal.

When an information distribution request is given from the wireless terminal through the wireless LAN access point the information providing unit transmits the information corresponding to the information distribution request to the wireless terminal as a requestor through the wireless LAN access point .

The information corresponding to the information distribution request is stored in the location information DB for each AP WID and the information providing unit acquires the information from the location information DB and transmits the information to the wireless terminal on the basis of the AP WID of the wireless LAN access point that has transferred the information distribution request.

For example when the display unit of the wireless terminal is a touch panel display the notification information displayed in the display unit of the wireless terminal illustrated in is selected by the user of the wireless terminal so that the information distribution request is transmitted from the wireless terminal .

Next a procedure of information delivery processing by the information providing system according to the embodiment will be described. are diagrams for describing information delivery processing flows by the information providing system . Hereinafter processing of the wireless terminal will be described with reference to processing of the wireless LAN access point will be described with reference to and processing of the information providing apparatus will be described with reference to .

First the information processing of the wireless terminal according to the embodiment will be described with reference to . is a flowchart of the information processing in the wireless terminal . The operation is processing repeatedly executed by the control unit of the wireless terminal .

As illustrated in the control unit of the wireless terminal determines whether having detected the AP wireless signal transmitted from the wireless LAN access point through the wireless LAN communication unit step S . In the processing when having determined to have detected the AP wireless signal transmitted from the wireless LAN access point Yes in step S the control unit stores the AP detection information including the information on the AP LID the radio wave intensity and the detected time in the storage unit step S .

When the processing of step S ends when having determined not to have detected the AP wireless signal transmitted from the wireless LAN access point in the processing of step S No in step S the control unit determines whether it is an update timing of the AP information table step S . When having determined it has been the update timing of the AP information table Yes in step S the control unit obtains the average radio wave intensity the average stay time and the number of entrance in units of wireless LAN access point on the basis of the AP detection information stored in the storage unit and updates the AP information table step S .

When the processing of step S or when having determined it has not been the update timing of the AP information table in step S No in step S the control unit determines whether it is a determination timing of the notification acquisition object step S . When having determined it has been the determination timing of the notification acquisition object Yes in step S the control unit determines a wireless LAN access point to serve as the notification acquisition object on the basis of the AP information table stored in the storage unit and transmits information on the notification acquisition object to the information providing apparatus step S .

When the processing of step S ends or when having determined it has not been the determination timing of the notification acquisition object in step S No in step S the control unit determines whether having acquired the notification information from the wireless LAN access point or the mobile phone base station step S . When having determined to have acquired the notification information Yes in step S the control unit displays the acquired notification information in the display unit step S .

When the processing of step S ends or when having determined not to have acquired the notification information in step S No in step S the control unit terminates the processing.

Next information processing of the wireless LAN access point according to the embodiment will be described with reference to . is a flowchart of information processing at the wireless LAN access point . The operation is processing repeatedly executed by the control unit of the wireless LAN access point .

As illustrated in the control unit of the wireless LAN access point determines whether having detected the wireless terminal through the wireless LAN communication unit step S . In the processing when having determined to have detected the wireless terminal Yes in step S the control unit transmits the terminal information the detection information including the AP WID the information on being in the during communication state and the like to the information providing apparatus through the communication unit step S .

In the processing of step S when having determined not to have detected the wireless terminal No in step S or when the processing of step S ends the control unit determines whether having received the information from a device connected to the communication network hereinafter described as network side device through the communication unit step S . When having determined to have received the information from the network side device Yes in step S the control unit transfers the received information to the wireless terminal that is the destination of the information step S .

In step S when having determined not to have received the information No in step S or the processing of step S ends the control unit determines whether there is a request from the wireless terminal to the network side device step S . When having determined that there is a request from the wireless terminal to the network side device Yes in step S the control unit transfers the request from the wireless terminal to the network side device to the network side device through the communication unit step S .

When the processing of step S ends or when having determined that there is no request from the wireless terminal to the network side device in step S No in step S the control unit terminates the processing.

Next processing of the information providing apparatus will be described. is a flowchart of information processing in the information providing apparatus . The operation is processing repeatedly executed by the control unit of the information providing apparatus .

As illustrated in the control unit determines whether having acquired the terminal information from the wireless terminal through the communication unit step S . When having determined to have acquired the terminal information from the wireless terminal Yes in step S the control unit performs notification processing step S . The notification processing is processing of steps S to S illustrated in and will be described in detail below.

In step S when having determined not to have acquired the terminal information from the wireless terminal No in step S or when the processing of step S ends the control unit determines whether having received the information on the notification acquisition object from the wireless LAN access point through the communication unit step S . When having determined to have received the information on the notification acquisition object Yes in step S the control unit sets the information on the notification acquisition object to the user information table and updates the user information table step S .

In step S when having not received the information on the notification acquisition object No in step S or when the processing of step S ends the control unit determines whether having received an information distribution request from the wireless terminal through the communication unit step S . When having received the information distribution request Yes in step S the control unit transmits the location information according to the information distribution request to the wireless terminal as the requestor step S .

In step S when having not received the information distribution request No in step S or the processing of step S ends the control unit terminates the processing.

Next the notification processing in step S illustrated in will be described. is a flowchart of the notification processing in the information providing apparatus .

As illustrated in in the notification processing the control unit updates the terminal information table on the basis of the AP WID the terminal ID the radio wave intensity and the information on whether during communication included in the acquired terminal information step S .

Next the control unit determines whether there is a wireless terminal that has newly entered a communication state with the wireless LAN access point in the AP communication area on the basis of the updated terminal information table step S . When having determined that there is a wireless terminal having newly entered the communication state in the AP communication area newly entering terminal Yes in step S the control unit determines whether the wireless LAN access point of the AP communication area that the newly entering terminal has entered is the wireless LAN access point of the notification acquisition object on the basis of the user information table step S .

In step S when having determined that the newly entering terminal has entered the wireless LAN access point of the notification acquisition object Yes in step S the control unit determines whether a transmission medium that notifies the notification information notification communication medium is the wireless LAN access point that the newly entering terminal has entered on the basis of the information on the notification object AP of the newly entering terminal set to the user information table step S .

When having determined the wireless LAN access point as the notification communication medium Yes in step S the control unit acquires the LAN notification information set to the location information table and transmits the LAN notification information to the wireless LAN access point using the terminal ID set to the user information table as the destination for the newly entering terminal step S .

Meanwhile when having determined the mobile phone base station an the notification communication medium No in step S the control unit acquires the WAN notification information set to the location information table and transmit the WAN notification information to the mobile phone communication network through the communication network using the WAN ID set to the user information table as the destination for the newly entering terminal step S .

When the processing of steps S and S ends when having determined that there is no wireless terminal having newly entered a communication state in the AP communication area in step S No in step S or when having determined that a newly entering terminal has not entered the wireless LAN access point of the notification acquisition object in step S No in step S the control unit terminates the processing.

Next a configuration of an information providing system according to a second embodiment will be described. While in the information providing system according to the first embodiment the notification acquisition object is determined on the basis of the radio wave intensity and the stay time in the information providing system according to the second embodiment the notification acquisition object is determined by further adding a keyword specified by the terminal user.

The wireless terminal A includes a control unit A. The control unit A has a function to set a keyword by the user of the wireless terminal A and a function to transmit the set keyword to the information providing apparatus A in addition to the function of the control unit according to the first embodiment.

To be specific the control unit A includes an information management unit A and a display control unit A. The display control unit A displays a setting screen of an information notification app in a display unit on the basis of data stored in a storage unit . An input frame for inputting a keyword is set on the setting screen of the information notification app and the user of the wireless terminal A performs operation to the display unit or an operation unit on the setting screen to input a keyword.

When the keyword is input by the user of the wireless terminal A the information management unit A stores the input keyword in the storage unit . Further the information management unit A transmits the keyword stored in the storage unit to the information providing apparatus A together with information on candidates of the notification acquisition object through a wireless LAN communication unit or a wireless WAN communication unit . The candidates of the notification acquisition object are determined on the basis of AP unit information by a method similar to the notification acquisition object according to the first embodiment.

The information providing apparatus A includes a control unit A. The control unit A sets the keyword from the wireless terminal A to a user information table and determines a wireless LAN access point of the notification acquisition object on the basis of the user information table in addition to the function of the control unit according to the first embodiment.

The control unit A includes an acquisition unit A and a determination unit A. When the keyword is transmitted from the wireless terminal A to the information providing apparatus A together with the information on the candidates of the notification acquisition object the acquisition unit A sets the keyword to the user information table together with the information on the candidates of the notification acquisition object. is a diagram illustrating an example of the user information table according to the second embodiment.

As illustrated in information on notification object candidate APs and the keyword are set in the user information table corresponding to each user ID. The notification object candidate AP is an AP LID of a wireless LAN access point that serves as a candidate of a notification acquisition object of the wireless terminal A. In the example illustrated in as the notification object candidate APs corresponding to a user ID U1 AL1 AL2 and the like are set and Chinese food is set as the keyword. Note that only one keyword is set corresponding to a user ID. However two or more keywords can be set.

When the wireless terminal A has entered the AP communication area of the wireless LAN access point that is the candidate of the notification acquisition object set to the user information table the determination unit A determines when the keyword set by the user of the wireless terminal A is included in the notification information on the wireless LAN access point the wireless LAN access point as the wireless LAN access point of the notification acquisition object.

As illustrated in when having determined that there is a wireless terminal A having newly entered a communication state in the AP communication area newly entering terminal Yes in step S the control unit A determines whether the wireless LAN access point of the AP communication area that the newly entering terminal has entered is the wireless LAN access point of the candidate of the notification acquisition object on the basis of the user information table step SA .

In step SA when having determined that the wireless LAN access point of the AP communication area that the newly entering terminal has entered is the wireless LAN access point of the candidate of the notification acquisition object Yes in step SA the control unit A determines in the user information table whether a word corresponding to the keyword is included in the notification information corresponding to the wireless LAN access point that the newly entering terminal has entered step S .

For example when a newly entering terminal corresponding to the user ID U1 has entered the AP communication area of the wireless LAN access point that is the candidate of the notification acquisition object the control unit A determines a wireless LAN access point as the notification acquisition object if a word corresponding to Chinese food is included in the LAN notification information or the WAN notification information of the wireless LAN access point .

When a word corresponding to the keyword is included in the notification information corresponding to the wireless LAN access point that the newly entering terminal has entered Yes in step S the control unit A determines a transmission medium notification communication medium that notifies the notification information to be the wireless LAN access point that the newly entering terminal has entered on the basis of the information on the notification object candidate AP step S .

When having determined that the wireless LAN access point as the notification communication medium Yes in step S the control unit A acquires the LAN notification information set to the location information table and transmits the LAN notification information to the wireless LAN access point using the terminal ID set to the user information table as the destination for the newly entering terminal step S . Meanwhile when having determined the mobile phone base station as the notification communication medium No in step S the control unit A acquires the WAN notification information set to the location information table and transmits the WAN notification information to the mobile phone communication network through the communication network using the WAN ID set to the user information table as the destination for the newly entering terminal step S .

As described above in the information providing system A according to the second embodiment the reception of the notification information is restricted by the keyword set by the user of the wireless terminal A. Therefore the information is not notified to the user of the wireless terminal A without any restriction and the notification of the information can be appropriately performed without giving the user of the wireless terminal A an unpleasant feeling.

Note that in the above description the wireless LAN access point of the notification acquisition object is determined on the basis of the keyword set by the user of the wireless terminal A from among the wireless LAN access points of the candidates of the notification acquisition object determined on the basis of the radio wave intensity and the stay time. However the control unit A can determine the wireless LAN access point of the notification acquisition object on the basis of only the keyword set by the user of the wireless terminal A.

In this case all of the wireless LAN access points can be used as the wireless LAN access points of the notification acquisition object. However a wireless LAN access point in which an average radio wave intensity is a predetermined value or more and an average stay time is a predetermined value or more can be used as the notification acquisition object.

Further a user attribute of the user of the wireless terminal A may be set to the user information table. In this case the control unit A can set a keyword on the basis of the user attribute.

Next a configuration of an information providing system according to a third embodiment will be described. In the information providing system according to the first embodiment the wireless terminal transmits the information on the notification acquisition object to the information providing apparatus and the information providing apparatus transmits the notification information on the basis of the information on the notification acquisition object. Meanwhile in an information providing system according to the third embodiment a wireless terminal does not transmit information on a notification acquisition object to an information providing apparatus and determines whether displaying notification information acquired from the information providing apparatus in a display unit on the basis of the information on the notification acquisition object.

The wireless terminal B includes a control unit B. The control unit B does not transmit information on a notification acquisition object to the information providing apparatus B and determine whether displaying notification information acquired from the information providing apparatus B in a display unit on the basis of the information on the notification acquisition object.

To be specific the control unit B includes an information management unit B and a display control unit B. When having determined the notification acquisition object the information management unit B stores information on the notification acquisition object in the storage unit . When having received the notification information from the information providing apparatus B the display control unit B displays the notification information received from the information providing apparatus B in a display unit when the notification information received from the information providing apparatus B is notification information of a wireless LAN access point of the notification acquisition object.

As illustrated in when having determined to have acquired notification information Yes in step S the control unit B of the wireless terminal B determines whether the acquired notification information is notification information of a wireless LAN access point of a notification acquisition object stored in the storage unit step S .

An AP LID of wireless LAN access point is associated with the notification information and the control unit B determines the acquired notification information is the notification information of the wireless LAN access point of the notification acquisition object when the AP LID associated with the notification information is included in the AP LID of the wireless LAN access point of the notification acquisition object.

When having determined the acquired notification information is the notification information of the wireless LAN access point of the notification acquisition object Yes in step S the control unit B displays the acquired notification information in the display unit step S .

The information providing apparatus B includes a control unit B. The control unit B includes an acquisition unit B and a determination unit B. Similarly to the acquisition unit the acquisition unit B acquires terminal information and updates a terminal information table of a location information DB . When a wireless terminal B has entered the AP communication area of the wireless LAN access point the determination unit B acquires for the wireless terminal B the notification information of the wireless LAN access point that the wireless terminal B has entered. That is the determination unit B acquires the notification information independently of the notification acquisition object.

As illustrated in when having determined that there is a wireless terminal B having newly entered a communication state in the AP communication area newly entering terminal Yes in step S the control unit B determines whether radio wave intensity of the newly entering terminal is a predetermined threshold or more a stay time is a predetermined threshold or more. When the radio wave intensity of the newly entering terminal is the predetermined threshold or more the stay time is the predetermined threshold or more the control unit B determines a transmission medium that notifies the notification information notification communication medium to be the wireless LAN access point that the newly entering terminal has entered step SB .

When having determined the wireless LAN access point as the notification communication medium Yes in step SB the control unit B causes the wireless LAN access point to notify the LAN notification information set to the location information table to the newly entering terminal step S . Meanwhile when having not determined the wireless LAN access point as the notification communication medium No in step SB the control unit B causes the mobile phone communication network to notify the WAN notification information set to the location information table to the newly entering terminal step S .

As described above in the information providing system B according to the third embodiment the wireless terminal B does not transmit the information on the notification acquisition object to the information providing apparatus B and displays the notification information acquired from the information providing apparatus B in the display unit on the basis of the information on the notification acquisition object. Therefore the notification of the information can be appropriately performed in the wireless terminal B without making the processing in the information providing apparatus B complicate.

Note that in the information providing system B according to the third embodiment a keyword can be set similarly to the second embodiment. That is the control unit B of the wireless terminal B stores information on a keyword set by a display unit or an operation unit in the storage unit and displays in the display unit the notification information corresponding to the keyword from among pieces of notification information corresponding to wireless LAN access points of the notification acquisition object.

The above described first and second embodiments the information providing apparatus A acquires the information on the notification acquisition object from the wireless terminal A . However a notification acquisition object can be determined for each wireless terminal A on the basis of terminal information acquired from a wireless LAN access point and can be set to a user information table.

To be specific a control unit A of the information providing apparatus A obtains an average radio wave intensity an average stay time and the number of entrance in union of AP communication area for each terminal ID on the basis of a terminal information table and determines the notification acquisition object on the basis of the information similarly to the above described processing. The control unit A sets information on an AP LID corresponding to the determined notification acquisition object to the user information table. In doing so the notification information can be notified to the wireless terminal A while reducing a processing load of the wireless terminal A .

Further in the above described embodiments the notification acquisition object is determined from among wireless LAN access points of the AP communication areas that the wireless terminal A has entered in the predetermined term Ta. However among the wireless LAN access points the notification acquisition object may be determined from among the wireless LAN access points that belong to an area range specified by the user.

In this case an input frame for inputting the area range is set on a setting screen of an information notification app and the user of the wireless terminal A or B can input the area range on the setting screen by performing an operation to the display unit or the operation unit . A control unit A or B of the wireless terminal A or B transmits information on the area range to the information providing apparatus A or B .

A control unit A or B of the information providing apparatus A or B sets the information on the area range acquired from the wireless terminal A or B to the user information table and determines a wireless LAN access point of the notification acquisition object from among wireless LAN access points positioned in the area range.

Further the control unit A of the wireless terminal A can include a non determination mode in which the notification acquisition object is not determined. In the non determination mode the information on the notification acquisition object is not notified to the information providing apparatus A . Therefore the control unit A of the information providing apparatus A transmits the notification information to the wireless terminal A when the conditions of the radio wave intensity and the stay time of the wireless terminal A that has entered the wireless LAN access point is satisfied similarly to the control unit B.

Note that when having displayed the notification information predetermined numbers of times or more in a predetermined term under a state of the non determination mode the control unit A of the wireless terminal A transfers to a first determination mode or a second determination mode and can continue the first determination mode or the second determination mode during a predetermined term.

Further in the above described embodiments the information providing apparatus A stores the notification information and transmits the notification information to the wireless terminal A . However the wireless LAN access point may store the notification information and transmit the notification information to the wireless terminal A .

Note that in the above described embodiments the function to transmit the detection information on the wireless terminal A or B is performed in each wireless LAN access point . However the function may be executed by a wireless LAN access point for detection separately provided with the function to transmit the detection information of the wireless terminal A or B . By separately providing the wireless LAN access point for detection the above described information delivery service can be provided to a location where the wireless LAN access point has already been installed by installing the wireless LAN access point for detection.

As described above the information providing system A or B according to the embodiments includes the wireless terminal A or B the wireless LAN access point and the information providing apparatus A or B . Further the wireless terminal A or B includes the wireless LAN communication unit the wireless WAN communication unit the display unit an example of an indication unit and the control unit A or B and the control unit A or B acquires when a radio wave intensity of the AP wireless signal output from a wireless LAN access point detected by the wireless LAN communication unit satisfies a predetermined condition the notification information corresponding to the wireless LAN access point in the wireless LAN communication unit or the wireless WAN communication unit and displays the notification information in the display unit .

With such a configuration when the wireless terminal A or B has entered the AP communication area of the wireless LAN access point the notification information corresponding to the wireless LAN access point is notified to the wireless terminal A or B . Therefore when a wireless LAN access point is installed in a store for example information on the store can be notified to the user of the wireless terminal A or B who has entered the store. Therefore the information on the store can be effectively notified to the user of the wireless terminal A or B . Further for the user of the wireless terminal A or B information irrelevant to the store that the user entered is not disorderly notified and the user of the wireless terminal A or B does not have an unpleasant feeling.

Furthermore when the wireless terminal A or B has entered the AP communication area of the wireless LAN access point in which the radio wave intensity of the AP wireless signal received from the wireless LAN access point satisfies a predetermined condition the wireless terminal acquires and displays the notification information corresponding to the wireless LAN access point . Therefore the user of the wireless terminal A or B can avoid a situation in which the notification information corresponding to the wireless LAN access point that the terminal user has entered is displayed in the wireless terminal A or B without any restriction and whereby the notification of information to the user of the wireless terminal A or B can be properly performed.

Further the wireless terminal A includes the storage unit that stores the history of the radio wave intensity of the AP wireless signal detected by the wireless LAN communication unit . The control unit A detects the wireless LAN access point that satisfies a predetermined condition on the basis of the history of the radio wave intensity stored in the storage unit .

With such a configuration the wireless LAN access point that satisfies a predetermined condition can be determined in the wireless terminal A and the processing load in the information providing apparatus A can be reduced for example.

Further the control unit A notifies the information on the wireless LAN access point that satisfies a predetermined condition to the information providing apparatus A through the wireless LAN communication unit or the wireless WAN communication unit and acquires the notification information corresponding to the wireless LAN access point that satisfies a predetermined condition from the information providing apparatus A through the wireless LAN communication unit or the wireless WAN communication unit .

With such a configuration when the user of the wireless terminal A has entered the AP communication area of the wireless LAN access point the information providing apparatus A can easily understand whether notifying the notification information and can appropriately notify the notification information.

Further the control unit B displays in the display unit the notification information corresponding to the wireless LAN access point that satisfies a predetermined condition from among pieces of notification information corresponding to wireless LAN access points acquired from the information providing apparatus B through the wireless LAN communication unit or the wireless WAN communication unit .

With such a configuration the wireless terminal B determines whether displaying the notification information acquired from the information providing apparatus B. Therefore the processing load in the information providing apparatus B can be reduced for example.

Further the predetermined condition is a condition that the radio wave intensity of the wireless LAN access point falls within a predetermined higher rank in an ranking determined on the basis of radio wave intensities of an AP wireless signals detected by the wireless LAN communication unit and the control unit A or B acquires the notification information corresponding to a wireless LAN access point falling within a predetermined higher rank in the ranking determined on the basis of the radio wave intensity of the AP wireless signal detected by the wireless LAN communication unit through the wireless LAN communication unit or the wireless WAN communication unit and displays the notification information in the display unit .

With such a configuration for example from among the wireless LAN access points the notification information corresponding to a wireless LAN access point in which the user of the wireless terminal A or B passes through or stays in a location closer to the center of the AP communication area is notified. Therefore the notification information can be appropriately notified.

Further the control unit A or B acquires the notification information corresponding to a wireless LAN access point falling within the predetermined highest rank in the predetermined higher rank through the wireless LAN communication unit and display the notification information in the display unit .

With such a configuration even in a case where the notification information is information having a relatively large information amount the notification information can be acquired in the wireless terminal A or B at a high speed by acquiring the notification information from a wireless LAN access point that is in a better communication state with the wireless terminal A or B .

Further the control unit A or B acquires the notification information corresponding to a wireless LAN access point falling outside the predetermined highest rank in the predetermined higher rank through the wireless WAN communication unit and display the notification information in the display unit .

With such a configuration even in a case of a wireless LAN access point that is in a poor communication state with the wireless terminal A or B the notification information can be acquired through the wireless WAN communication unit and the notification information can be obtained in the wireless terminal A or B at a high speed by using information having a relatively small information amount as the notification information for example and the notification information can be notified to the wireless terminal A or B at an appropriate timing.

Further in the information providing apparatus A the location information DB an example of a notification information storage unit stores the notification information corresponding to each of a plurality of wireless LAN access points and the control unit A acquires a wireless LAN access point in which the radio wave intensity of the wireless signal detected by the wireless LAN communication unit of the wireless terminal A satisfies a predetermined condition as the information on the wireless LAN access point of the notification acquisition object from the wireless terminal or A and transmits to the wireless terminal A through the wireless LAN access point or the mobile phone base station the notification information corresponding to the wireless LAN access point .the notification acquisition object from among pieces of notification information stored in the location information DB .

With such a configuration the information on the store can be effectively notified to the user of the wireless terminal A . Further for the user of the wireless terminal A information irrelevant to the store that the user entered is not disorderly notified and the user does not have an unpleasant feeling. Further when the user of the wireless terminal A has entered the AP communication area of the wireless LAN access point the information providing apparatus A can easily understand whether notifying the notification information and can appropriately notify the notification information.

Further the control unit A of the wireless terminal A transmits the information on the keyword set by the display unit or the operation unit an example of an input unit to the information providing apparatus A and the control unit A of the information providing apparatus A acquires the information on the keyword from the wireless terminal A and transmits to the wireless terminal A the notification information corresponding to the keyword from among pieces of notification information corresponding to wireless LAN access points of the notification acquisition object.

With such a configuration the reception of the notification information is restricted by the keyword set by the user of the wireless terminal A. Therefore the information is not notified to the user without any restriction and the notification of the information can be appropriately performed without giving the user of the wireless terminal A an unpleasant feeling.

Further the above described information providing apparatus A and B may be realized by a plurality of server computers. Further depending on a function the configuration thereof can be flexibly changed by being realized by calling an external platform or the like by an application programming interface API network computing or the like. Further a part of the functions of the above described information providing apparatus A and B may be realized by the wireless LAN access point .

The wireless terminal the information providing method and the information providing system according to the present application have an effect of appropriately notifying a user of a wireless terminal of information.

Although the invention has been described with respect to specific embodiments for a complete and clear disclosure the appended claims are not to be thus limited but are to be construed as embodying all modifications and alternative constructions that may occur to one skilled in the art that fairly fall within the basic teaching herein set forth.

