---

title: Mobile device applications for computer-telephony systems
abstract: On a mobile telecommunications device, computer-executable code executes to facilitate interactions between the user of the mobile telecommunications device and a call center or other computer-telephony integration equipment. The computer-executable code includes instructions that request at least one operation to be performed at a call center, where the call center includes a call center controller, an interactive voice response system component, and at least one agent. At least in part, a wireless network transmits the request from the mobile telecommunications device to the call center controller.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08838081&OS=08838081&RS=08838081
owner: Nuance Communications, Inc.
number: 08838081
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140203
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 424 093 filed on Mar. 19 2012 entitled MOBILE DEVICE APPLICATIONS FOR COMPUTER TELEPHONY SYSTEMS which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Often times telecommunication device users become frustrated when interacting with call centers. For example users may be forced to navigate through tedious menus from interactive voice response IVR systems during which a pre recorded or computer synthesized voice may rather impersonally ask a variety of annoying questions of the user. A user typically can respond to the questions orally or alternately by pressing numeric buttons on the keypad of the telephone in order to cause the telephone to emit via the audio communications channel one or a sequence of dual tone multi frequency DTMF tones for recognition by the IVR system. Problems commonly arise during both modes of communication.

One problem arises during DTMF tone production when the user has a keypad with a nonstandard mapping of letters to numbers. For example if the IVR system is designed for the letter mapping of a standard keypad where for example a single key corresponds to the number 2 as well as the letters A B and C the user of a phone with a keypad having a different letter mapping may experience difficulty as a different DTMF tone or no tone at all may be produced when the user presses the desired key to be communicated to the IVR.

Other problems arise when a user attempts to interact with a call center orally in a noisy environment such as near automobile traffic where loud music is playing or nearby other people talking at loud volume levels. In such situations background noise can overwhelm the user s verbal responses to an IVR system making proper recognition of the user s utterances difficult if not impossible. This same problem can afflict human call center agents who attempt to interact with the user orally. Moreover the user can experience difficulty in listening to the audio based information in a noisy environment. These problems can lead to the user repeatedly and unsuccessfully attempting interactions with the call center not being able to interact in a convenient or timely manner and experiencing dissatisfaction and frustration.

When human agents are employed to verbally dialogue or interact with the user rather than utilizing IVR interactions the costs of the employer generally increase and this approach will not solve all the problems. In some cases where an agent is instructed to read predetermined scripts to a user that an IVR could have been programmed to read a poor and impersonal user experience can result. An IVR system or a human agent may needlessly ask a user questions and waste the time of the user. For example a user may spend minutes navigating through the initial questions or menus of an IVR system during which time the IVR system may verbally present various information that the user either already knows or does not care about such as when the information is not relevant to the situation of the user. Typically an IVR or a human agent knows little about the context of an incoming caller when the voice connection is recently established. The IVR system or agent may not initially know the likely reason that the user is calling about or even information about the identity of the caller whether the identity of the caller really is who the caller says and so on. Furthermore agents working at a call center may be divided by or assigned to groups able or preferred to perform specific tasks or work with specific users. The user is typically initially verbally queried to determine more information about the context of the user such as the nature of the user s need before the user s voice call is transferred to an agent more capable of satisfying the user.

In order for certain transactions to be made with the assistance of a call center a caller may also be asked to verbally prove their identity by providing authentication information which can include information such as the user s address the user s partial or full social security number an account password and other security verification questions. Some IVR systems or agents may require such as for security purposes that the user provide account identification and authentication information initially before any substantive problem solving can begin. In some cases the call center requests account information in order to track the history of the interactions with a customer for example with customer relationship management CRM software. Asking for and orally proving the identity of customers takes the customer s time and also incurs increased risks of misuse of the security authentication information such as by a third party overhearing the user uttering security information or by the human agent misusing the authentication information e.g. performing identity theft with the user s address and social security number .

Call interception technology has alleviated certain problems of interacting with call centers but even with call interception techniques on a mobile device there still can exist the above mentioned user frustrations when connection to an IVR system or agent becomes required in order to address the user s need. The need exists for a system that overcomes the above problems as well as one that provides additional benefits. Overall the examples herein of some prior or related systems and their associated limitations are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations of existing or prior systems will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading the following Detailed Description

In various embodiments the technology facilitates interactions between the user of a mobile telecommunications device and a call center in order to help the user avoid interacting with an IVR system or waiting on hold for a long period of time during a voice call before being able to speak to a human agent or to streamline or eliminate some of the oral interactions during a voice call with a human agent that are necessary to resolve the user s problem or request. The facilitation may include one or more of displaying call center availability information on the graphical user interface of the mobile device scheduling a call with the call center for origination at a future time sending routing instructions for routing a call to a particular agent or group of agents at the call center and displaying or processing on the mobile device information sent by a call center agent via the call center agents terminal.

In some aspects the mobile device receives a message from a mobile care server or a call center controller that contains call center availability information. The mobile device may present the availability information to the user on the graphical user interface of the mobile device in order to allow the user to make an informed decision as to whether or not to make a voice call to the call center. In some cases the graphical user interface of the mobile device only recommends suggests or encourages its user to make a call only when the message indicates that the call center is available. The availability information for the call center may include availability information that is specific for a particular agent or group of agents at the call center. The user may perform a particular action on the mobile device that causes the mobile device to request the availability information or presents the availability information such as opening an application on the mobile device making a particular menu selection within an application or operating system encountering a particular technical problem detected by the mobile device or dialing a phone number for the call center that is intercepted.

In some aspects the mobile device sends at least one of call routing call scheduling and call data attaching instructions to a call center. Call routing instructions instruct the call center to route a phone call received from or originated to the mobile device to a particular agent or group of agents at the call center. Call scheduling instructions instruct the call center to originate a phone call to the mobile device at a particular time in the future. Call data attaching instructions instruct the call center to display information relating to the context identification or authentication of the caller on the terminal of the agent who gets routed the voice call of the mobile device so that the agent can provide an improved user experience to the user during the user s voice call.

A system described in detail below facilitates interactions with computer telephony integration CTI equipment. A software SDK can permit connectivity to server based components that in turn interface with a gateway server or CTI resources. For example the system provides information appearing on the display of a call center agent s terminal such as the context of a caller who is routed to the agent. The agent may see if the user was prior to initiating a call using a menu of the help application to obtain technical support information. In another example the agent sees that a user has already provided account login or authentication information into a graphical user interface of the user s mobile telecommunications device. Accordingly the call center agent may not need to orally ask for authentication information during a phone call with the user thereby saving time of the agent and the user.

The system may automatically display information relating to a caller on an agent s computer screen such as information relating to the caller s account the caller s mobile device the caller s billing information the history of recent interactions with the caller other customer relationship management CRM information for the caller diagnostic information about the caller s mobile device the likely reasons for which the caller may be calling or suggested answers to likely questions and so on.

The system may also store or receive information that a caller or potential caller s phone has recently experienced an unexpected malfunction and it may subsequently display related information on an agent s computer monitor along with suggested remedies that the agent or the customer may take to fix the malfunction or prevent it from happening again. For example the agent may instruct the customer to perform an action on the customer s phone or the agent may remotely control the customer s mobile device while the agent and the user remain on the phone. Alternately the agent may remotely issue commands to the mobile device such as by remotely installing a bug fix for problematic software which the system determined was likely responsible for the crash.

Various examples of the invention will now be described. The following description provides certain specific details for a thorough understanding and enabling description of these examples. One skilled in the relevant technology will understand however that the invention may be practiced without many of these details. Likewise one skilled in the relevant technology will also understand that the invention may include many other obvious features not described in detail herein. Additionally some well known structures or functions may not be shown or described in detail below to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the relevant descriptions of the various examples.

The terminology used below is to be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific examples of the invention. Indeed certain terms may even be emphasized below however any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed Description section.

The smart phone or mobile device illustrated has a graphical user interface such as but not limited to a capacitive touchscreen panel or a liquid crystal display LCD in combination with hardware buttons and the like. Other telecommunication devices such as the devices and may have different user interfaces than the user interface . For example the cell phone or mobile device may have a smaller display e.g. fewer pixels or a smaller dimensioned screen. The telecommunication device may have a non graphical user interface e.g. consisting of touchpad buttons a microphone a ringer and a loudspeaker and no display. 

The communication connections or linkages with the mobile and telecommunication devices include a combination of wireless communication linkages and and wired communication linkages such as the communication linkage . Each of the communication linkages support voice based telecommunications such as over a public switched telephone network PSTN . For example communication linkage may traverse a plain old telephone service and communication linkages and may traverse wireless telecommunication networks e.g. a cellular network such as a Global System for Mobile Communications network GSM a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network 3G 4G network an IEEE 802.11 or 802.16 family network such as a WiFi or WiMAX network a satellite communications network and so on. Some or all of the communication linkages also support the transmission of data. For example the communication linkage may support the transmission of data over a wired and or wireless telecommunication network via any one or a combination of the following techniques short messaging service SMS including binary SMS General Packet Radio Service GPRS 3GPP long term evolution LTE Internet Protocol IP Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP or HTTPS Session Initiated Protocol SIP and any other techniques known in the art for delivering data across wired or wireless networks.

The computer telephony system includes a processor coupled to data storage . The data storage may be any one or a combination of a hard drive random access memory RAM flash memory read only memory a memory cache and any other data storage device known in the art. In various embodiments the processor component may be implemented by a single processor on a single computing device multiple processors on a single computing device or by multiple processors on multiple computing devices such as on various combinations of the telecommunication devices laptop or desktop computers comprising agent terminals server computers main frames networking routers gateways switches and so on. The processor and the data storage may be communicatively coupled with one or more components of the system such as a voice communication component a data communication component a call interception component an IVR component and a queue management component .

The voice communication component may answer phone calls originate phone calls and route phone calls processed by the computer telephony system . For example the voice communication component may answer a phone call received from the user of the mobile device and route it to the IVR component or to one of the agents . The voice communication component may receive instructions such as routing instructions and send messages such as a call routing alerts. The data storage may store the received routing instructions. In some embodiments the voice communication component comprises a telephone exchange or telephone switch such as a private branch exchange PBX or a session initiation protocol SIP switch such as may be used for VoIP or video calling.

The data communication component may communicate data within and beyond the computer telephony system including the communication of messages with mobile device across communication link and in some cases the communication of data with agent terminal and via communication link and respectively.

In some embodiments upon receipt from the voice communication component of an alert that an incoming call exists from a telecommunication device e.g. the mobile device the call interception component may instruct the voice communication component to terminate the voice call and instruct the data communication component to send data communications to the mobile device over communication link in order to intercept the call from the user and provide via the graphical user interface interactive and immediate visual based assistance to the user. By intercepting the voice call the user may be able to immediately resolve a request for assistance in a manner that is both more effective than orally communicating with the IVR component as well as more immediate than waiting for the agents when they are occupied to become available. In some embodiments the system utilizes the IVR component to at times provide automated voice based service to one or more users of the telecommunication devices such as for example when the agents are unavailable or when the user s device does not have a suitable user interface for providing visual assistance on the device. The system may therefore provide compatibility with a wide variety of telecommunication devices .

In order to provide the users with fair time effective cost effective and predictable access to the call center agents who may at times be unavailable e.g. busy helping other users the system may utilize a queue management component . The queue management component may for example provide visually displayable status information to the mobile device about the number of callers who are already waiting to speak to one of the agents . Status information may include the number of callers interacting with the IVR component e.g. who may have already requested or who may soon request to speak to an agent the number of users who are waiting in a queue for the system to call the user back e.g. when the queue management component determines it is the user s turn to speak to an agent and the like. The queue management component may consider a user who is waiting on hold including in some cases interacting with the IVR component as being in the queue.

The mobile device may execute computer executable code to notify its user via its graphical user interface regarding the status of the call center such as notifying the user about how many other callers are already waiting in the queue or about the time that the system anticipates that the user must wait before being able to speak to an agent. In some embodiments the notification is simply a suggestion or a menu option of the lack thereof that is displayed on the graphical user interface that suggests that the user may wish to immediately speak to a currently available agent. The graphical user interface may prompt its user for making a call entering a waiting queue or scheduling a time for a future call. In some embodiments the queue management component considers a subset of the agents at the call center when determining availability estimated wait time or waiting caller queue length. The subset of the agents at the call center may be for example a particular agent who may be assigned to the user a particular group of agents who are best able to address the need of the user and so on.

The wireless communication component may wirelessly transmit and receive information such as analog voice communications or digital packet information across a wireless network to another party. The wireless communication component may utilize a modem a radio and an antenna for implementing various short medium or long range wireless communication techniques known in the art. The wireless communication component may provide both voice communications such as cellular telephone service and data communications such as packet data.

The memory may be any one or a combination of the aforementioned storage devices referenced in the description of the data storage e.g. RAM or flash memory. The memory may contain data and computer executable instructions which may be executed by the processor . The data and computer executable instructions may implement operating systems and application programming interfaces APIs for interfacing with the operating systems or other libraries such as may be provided or compiled by software development toolkits SDKs . APIs and SDKs facilitate the development and maintenance of software or firmware widgets applications and other code. An operating system contained in the memory may include one that is open to third party application development i.e. has APIs available for independent software vendors to utilize when writing code examples including Apple iOS Google Android Microsoft Windows phone or Windows Mobile and Symbian operating systems or one that is not open to third party application development such as may be found on a feature phone. 

In various embodiments portions of the computer executable code facilitate interactions between the user of the mobile device and a call center e.g. the call center the computer executable code comprising instructions that request at least one operation to be performed at the call center. The mobile device may include a graphical user interface based application which utilizes the graphical user interface and that may provide functionality to assist the user to perform tasks related to the call center such as performing a bank transaction e.g. with the call center offering support to customers of a bank troubleshooting problems e.g. technical device problems could be supported by a call center related to the manufacturer of the mobile device or to the wireless service provider receiving other customer support and so on.

One or more widgets callable by a third party software application or operating system may be utilized to perform operations relating to the system . The widgets may have customizable features. The graphical user interface based application may include or utilize any one or more of a call center widget a call center SDK and a call intercept SDK . The call center widget facilitates providing functionality relating to a call center e.g. facilitating the development and maintenance of the application . In addition to or instead of utilizing the call center widget the application may directly utilize the call center SDK and the call intercept SDK . The call center widget may also utilize the SDKs and . The call intercept SDK provides e.g. to the application call intercept methods and functionality. Some call intercept methods and functionality are detailed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 353 016 entitled Call Intercept Methods Such as for Customer Self Support on a Mobile Device dated Apr. 1 2008 as well as in U.S. Pat. No. 7 676 221 of the same title dated Mar. 9 2010. See also U.S. Pat. No. 7 539 484 entitled Method and System for Enhancing Voice Calls Such as Enhancing Voice Calls with Data Services dated May 26 2009. The contents of the above three patent references are hereby incorporated in their entireties.

The mobile device may also contain a call intercept service available for widgets applications or an operating system thereon to utilize e.g. via the call intercept SDK . A service on the mobile device such as the call intercept service may be memory resident e.g. loaded into RAM and available for execution or running in the background e.g. to receive messages after the mobile device has been successfully turned on and booted. For example the call intercept service may be loaded into RAM and ready to run even when the application is not running. In some cases services such as the call intercept service run in a separate execution thread or process. The call intercept service may in some embodiments receive messages execute instructions trigger the graphical user interface based application to load into memory or execute and so on even when the user is not actively using e.g. not observing via the graphical user interface the graphical user interface based application . For example when the user is using a phone number dialer or phone contacts application of the operating system and dials a number in some cases the operating system may trigger the execution of configured functions or code entry points of the call intercept service . In some embodiments call interception may alternately or additionally trigger the launching and executing of the graphical user interface based application . In some embodiments other triggers or messages provided by the operating system for example a notification about the creation or modification of a particular file or configuration parameter at a particular location such as a file directory location may execute portions of the call intercept service .

The SDKs and each contain at least one application programming interface API for sharing data with receiving calls from and making calls to the operating system applications e.g. the graphical user interface based application services e.g. the call intercept service and widgets e.g. the call center widget . An API may be in any variety of suitable formats and languages such as XML C C Objective C Java Script and so on. Example API calls for the call center SDK are indicated in Table 1.

The communication linkage may comprise a data connection and a voice connection . The data connection connects the mobile device to the data communication component and the voice connection connects the mobile device to the voice communication component of the computer telephony system. The data connection may implement the data communication component . For example in some embodiments a mobile care server uses the data connection in order to exchange data between the mobile device and any portions of the call interception the IVR and the queue management components that the mobile care server may implement or relay data communications for. The mobile care server may contain a processor implementing all or portions of the processor . The mobile care server may additionally contain a data storage device e.g. a hard drive with a relational database implementing all or portions of the data storage .

The call intercept service or in some embodiments other executable code residing on the device beside the call intercept service such as the operating system the call center widget or the application may communicate via the data connection with the mobile care server . The mobile care server may cache resources and data such as applications widgets SDKs other code and data etc. for distribution to mobile device when the data connection is ready e.g. when a wireless network that is traversed by the data connection becomes uncongested or available for utilizing with increases cost effectiveness. The data connection may allow the transmission of data using any of the aforementioned data transmission techniques discussed in relation to the communication linkage e.g. SMS MMS IP based etc. . Various events on the mobile device may trigger the communication such as but not limited to the device being booted the device being booted for the first time the user launching an application on the device and the mobile device intercepting the user s request for an outgoing phone call access via a web page displayed screen and the like.

In some embodiments the mobile care server utilizes a communication link to communicate with a backend system . The backend system may store data retrieve data perform actions and perform transactions such as financial transactions at a separate facility such as at a secured financial transaction processing facility of a bank or of a wireless service provider etc.

A network connection allows the mobile care server to communicate with a computer telephony connector . The computer telephony connector may implement or alternately may communicate with such as by a communication link a computer telephony interface associated with at least one call center e.g. the call center or with one type of Customer Interaction Management CIM software. In some embodiments the computer telephone interface is an application programming interface API for the Genesys platform SDK version 8.0 and the computer telephony connector is for programmatically extending the Genesys CIM platform which may be utilized by the call center . The Java API of the Genesys platform SDK is further detailed at http devzone.genesyslab.com devportal 80 20SDK 20Documentation Platform 20SD K 208.0.1 20Java 20API 20Reference.zip.

In other embodiments the computer telephony connector may interface with a different type or brand of CIM platform such as Cisco Intelligent Contact Management software. In some embodiments multiple connectors will be available for the mobile care server to utilize allowing for the system to interface with a variety of CIM platforms and call centers beyond just the call center .

Referring back to the example of the call center in the computer telephony interface may receive requests from the mobile care server e.g. using an extensible markup language XML protocol and by receiving calls to the aforementioned Genesys platform SDK version 8.0. The computer telephony connector and the computer telephony interface may be stand alone physical devices or may be logical components of the mobile care server or a computer telephony controller such as a call center controller associated with the call center . 

In some embodiments the connections and may include the transmission of data over non secured networks such as the internet. In these cases it is desirable for the communication to be encrypted or tunneled such as by using a virtual private network in order to secure the data. When components reside in different locations e.g. if the call center controller is in a first location while the mobile care server is in a second location and while the backend system is in a third location it is desirable for connections between the locations e.g. connection and connection to transmit data and commands in a manner that maintains security during transit between the locations.

The call center controller also has a connection with a voice browser . The voice connection may connect the mobile device with a private branch exchange which may be located within call center . Other connections suitable for conveying voice communications e.g. and may be configured to route the voice connection between the mobile device and the voice browser or to an agent station . The private branch exchange PBX may implement the voice communication component . The call center controller may via the connection alter the configuration state of the PBX with respect to how the PBX manages and connects the voice connections and . The queue management component may be implemented on at least one of the PBX and the call center controller . Using the queue management component the PBX may control telecommunication access to the agents e.g. agent at station and may likewise at times route one or more of the callers to the voice browser .

The voice browser may implement the IVR component . In one example the voice browser accesses Voice XML VXML files in order to determine the voice browser s behavior. Additional details may be found in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2010 0087175 dated Apr. 8 2010 entitled Methods of Interacting Between Mobile Devices and Voice Response Systems the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The agent station is coupled to the call center controller by a connection that is capable of sending and receiving data to and from the agent terminal . The connection may be a private network connection e.g. Ethernet in a private network or a public network connection e.g. an VPN secured connection traversing a portion of the internet. The agent station may contain at least one of a headset a handset a software based phone or another telephonic device suitable for allowing its agent to connect to its voice connection . The agent station may additionally include CRM software CIM platform software related to the call center and other components suitable for interacting with the call center controller and the voice connection . For example Genesys Local Control Agent software may allow the call center controller to monitor and control Genesys applications. The call center controller may detect the responsiveness of Genesys applications in the agent station such as by utilizing heartbeat messages. Heartbeat messages determine whether the agent is or is not currently connected with the voice connection . If the agent is not currently connected that agent may be considered by the call center controller to be available to take a call.

In some embodiments the call center may utilize Genesys Virtual Hold Rendezvous to implement at least a portion of the queue management component .

In some embodiments the system identifies a free inbound phone line with a particular phone number and sends that phone number e.g. via the connector and the mobile care server to the mobile device . The free inbound phone line identification may be performed by checking the status of a list of inbound phone numbers e.g. the list of phone numbers for the PBX or for the call center . 

The call center may utilize Dialed Number Identification Service DNIS in order to determine which telephone number was dialed when a caller e.g. the mobile device establishes voice connection e.g. with the PBX . The dialed number may in some cases be used by the PBX to identify at least in part the caller. For example multiple dialed numbers may reach the same PBX and the PBX may determine the identity of the caller based on the dialed number. Alternately or additionally caller identification extended dialing digits or any other identification based on the ITU T Q.1200 series recommendations Intelligent Network may be used to identify the caller.

For example the PBX or the call center controller may receive notifications defined in the 3GPP TS 29.199 3 V6.3.0 specification or the EDSI Parlay X 2.1 S Part 3 Call Notification. These specifications are available at http docbox.etsi.org TISPAN Open OSA ParlayX21.html and http www.3gpp.org ftp specs archive 29 series 29.199 03 29199 03 630.zip respectively. More specifically the PBX or the call center controller may be configured to receive the handleCalledNumberRequest input message of the aforementioned Call Notification API with CallingParty indicating the identifier of the inbound caller and CalledParty indicating the dialed number when a new call is received. The PBX and or the call center controller may then influence the desired call routing by returning the following parameters in the output message handleCalledNumberResponse ActionToPerform set to Route and the RoutingAddress set to the address e.g. the phone number or extension number of a particular agent to whom the computer telephony system desires the call to be routed. The computer telephony system may alternately or additionally utilize other specific methods for call routing that are known in the art.

The waiting caller queue length datum indicates the number of callers who are waiting to speak with an agent. In some embodiments of the computer telephony system a caller waiting in the queue may have yet to actually make a call e.g. the waiting caller queue length datum may include a user who entered the queue by utilizing the graphical user interface based application or the call center widget .

The estimated wait time datum estimates a time or a duration that a caller needs to wait in order to speak to an agent. For example when the estimated wait time datum indicates 15 minutes a new caller entering the queue would need to wait 15 minutes to speak to an agent. In some embodiments the estimated wait time datum may be associated with a caller who is already waiting in the caller queue. The estimated wait time datum may be an absolute time i.e. one that does not vary along with the present time or a relative time e.g. one that is relative to the present time. Examples of the estimated wait time datum include but are not limited to 15 minutes from the present time a wall clock time such as the string 5 02 30 AM a date a month a year a day of the week a value formatted in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization ISO format a number of seconds elapsed since epoch i.e. midnight of Jan. 1 1970 coordinated universal time and the like.

Caller data may be associated with a current future or past caller of a call center and include a caller identification datum a caller authentication datum a caller context datum and a call routing datum relating to a caller. The identification datum allows the computer telephony system to identify a user e.g. one of the users or a device e.g. one of the telecommunication devices . The identification datum may be any identifier of a caller or a telecommunications device such as a Mobile Subscriber Integrated Services Digital Network Number MSISDN an International Mobile Equipment Identifier IMEI an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI a globally unique identifier GUID an IP address such as an IP version 4 or 6 address and so on.

The authentication datum represents security authentication status or information relating to a caller. For example if authentication datum equals true it may indicate to the system that the caller has already passed a security authentication procedure e.g. a user may have entered a valid account number and password via the graphical user interface based application or may have utilized a fingerprint sensor a retina scanner etc. to otherwise validate the user s authenticity. A variety of other methods known in the art for interacting with a graphical user interface based application e.g. of a mobile device to provide security authentication may result in caller authentication datum being true. In some embodiments the authentication datum contains account or authentication details for example at least one or a combination of an account number a password a PIN number a user name a social security number etc.

The caller context datum contains any information at least partially describing the context or the state of a user e.g. one of the users or a device e.g. one of the telecommunication devices . 

The call routing datum may contain a desired routing path with respect to the agents and any virtual agents such as may be implemented by the IVR component to simulate speaking to a particular agent. For example a routing path may lead to certain agents who provide certain specialties or certain functions of a call center which are not as efficiently provided by other agents for example technical support upgrades personal account manager for Bob Smith etc. 

Wizards and answers to frequently asked questions FAQs may provide to an end user e.g. one of users or in some cases to agents steps to troubleshoot problems find answers to questions seek help and so on. In some cases the wizards and the answers to FAQs contain computer executable instructions such as for one or more of the telecommunication devices or the agent terminals . In some cases may contain text digital pictures menus sound clips other digital files or other resources.

Some example processes using the system described above will now be provided. These are only examples and many other examples are of course possible. Further based on such examples one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate general features of the present system to allow a mobile device to more effectively interact e.g. with a call center or CTI equipment.

The mobile care server at step receives the message e.g. across data connection and forwards it e.g. via the computer telephony connector in combination with the computer telephony interface to the call center controller . In some embodiments the mobile care server may store or process the data locally at the server instead of or in addition to forwarding the attached data to the call center controller .

Proceeding to step the call center controller receives the attached caller data and stores it then returns an acknowledgement to the mobile care server . The mobile care server at step forwards the return acknowledgement message to mobile device . The mobile device at step receives the return acknowledgement and is aware that the system successfully received the attached data.

The graphical user interface based application may display a menu option for speaking to an agent about upgraded calling plans. The user at step indicates a request to speak to an agent e.g. such as by selecting the menu option to speak to an agent visible on the graphical user interface . In some cases the application may determine that the user indicates a request to speak to an agent tacitly automatically or implicitly e.g. just by the opening of the application . At step the application may perform a getStats API call directed at call center SDK passing in the parameter for obtaining the availability of the call center such as the wait time for the caller queue e.g. by passing in at least one of the parameters  QUEUE WAIT TIME  and  CALL CENTER OPEN  . The mobile care server at step receives a message resulting from the getStats API call and forwards it to the call center controller .

The call center controller at step receives the request for availability status of the call center and obtains data relating to the availability of the call center such as the estimated wait time or a Boolean value indicating true if the call center is open etc. As needed the call center controller may communicate with the PBX to determine the call center availability data . The call center controller then sends the requested call center availability data to the mobile care server which the server receives and forwards at step . The mobile device at step receives the estimated wait time for the call center and performs a check for whether the estimated wait time is excessively long e.g. longer than five minutes. Alternately or additionally the mobile device can perform a decision based on a Boolean value regarding whether the call center is open.

If the wait time is excessively long the process continues to step . Otherwise the process continues to step where the mobile device originates a new outbound call to a number for the call center . In this example a PSTN may implement the voice connection . The private branch exchange of the call center at step receives the call e.g. over the PSTN from mobile device and identifies the caller. The identification of the caller may be by the caller s MSISDN or the dialed number etc. as previously detailed above in discussion of the PBX . The PBX then routes the call to an available agent . In some cases such as when the agent is not yet available the PBX may temporarily place the caller on hold or may temporarily route the caller to the voice browser such as when the agent is not yet available. An agent is expected to become available within any maximum period of time previously verified e.g. the estimated wait time determined in step to be no greater than five minutes. Referring back to step the PBX also alerts the call center controller about the call. The alert may include the identification of the caller in combination with an indication of an agent station to which the PBX routed the call.

At step the call center controller receives the alert including the identity of the caller and retrieves the caller data that was previously stored in step . The retrieved data may include the caller context datum indicating that the user opened an application or dialed a number relating to changing the user s wireless subscription account e.g. data that the call center controller received and stored in step . The call center controller may also determine that the call associated with the alert was routed to a particular agent station e.g. agent station . The determination may be based on a call routing datum contained in the alert or based on direct communications with agent station across communication link to determine that the caller it is connected to matches the routed caller e.g. based on caller identification datum contained in the alert . Also in step the call center controller then sends the retrieved information relating to the caller to the agent station . The agent station at step displays the caller information received from the call center controller . In some cases the agent station may receive caller data and obtain additional information based on that data prior to displaying the caller information. The information may be displayed e.g. on the agent s terminal .

At step the agent utilizes the caller information displayed in step to assist the caller whose call was routed in step to the agent s telephone. The agent may determine that the caller would like additional information about a particular calling plan which is available on a Web page at a particular uniform resource locator URL . The agent may decide to send the webpage to the caller by utilizing a CRM software application on the agent s terminal to send the webpage to the caller. At this point the agent or the user may decide to conclude the voice call or may alternately continue the voice call.

The call center controller at step may receive an instruction from the agent s terminal to forward the webpage to the caller. The call center controller may store this instruction for future reference by the computer telephony system for example for future reference by the CRM software of one of the terminals used by agents who may assist the caller in the future. The call center controller sends the caller data including the URL to the mobile care server . The URL may be stored as a caller context data entry and may be associated with a caller identification datum which the system may use to forward the URL to correct mobile device of the caller. The mobile care server at step receives the URL and the identification of the caller with which it is associated and forwards it via the data connection to the mobile device . The mobile device at step receives the URL and may display Web content associated with it. The user at step then may views the displayed Web content.

At step the mobile device receives the indication and schedules an incoming call appointment callback with the call center . The device requests callback scheduling by sending a message to the mobile care server over the data connection . An application on the mobile device may utilize the call center widget or the call center SDK to perform the steps of scheduling a callback and in some cases displaying the call center availability e.g. the application may perform the requestCallBack API call of the call center SDK . At step the mobile care server receives the callback request and forwards it to the call center controller . The callback request may be formatted as a data structure comprising a caller identification entry and a caller context entry . In some embodiments a callback request may additionally include a call routing entry indicating a particular agent or group of agents at the call center with whom the user desires to speak. For example the user may desire to speak with a member of the upgrades team of agents regarding changing the user s calling plan.

The call center controller at step receives the callback request and stores the caller data. If the call center controller determines that it cannot likely call the user back at the requested time it may reply to the callback request with updated call center availability data such as updated estimated wait time . The controller may enqueue the caller schedule an alert at a specified time or perform other steps known in the art to have a call center originate an outbound call to a user at a designated time for example such as by using Genesys Virtual Hold software or Cisco Intelligent Contact Management software . When the mobile care server receives an acknowledgement regarding the callback request from the call center controller the server forwards the acknowledgement to the mobile device . Upon receiving the acknowledgement the mobile device may display to the user that the callback is successfully scheduled or may update its display with updated times for which the call center will allow scheduling a callback. For example if the acknowledgement received at step indicates an updated estimated wait time the mobile device application may go back to step to invite user to indicate a new time of desired callback.

When the user in step observes on mobile device that a callback was successfully scheduled for a particular time the user may wait until that time without the inconvenience of waiting on hold and also without needlessly utilizing limited bandwidth of a wireless telecommunication network e.g. underlying the voice connection . Moreover with the exemplary process of the system has not necessitated that the user interact with the IVR component for an extended period of time.

While the user is waiting in step the call center controller also waits either until the user s position in the queue comes to or close to the front of the queue or for a scheduled time to perform an action relating to calling the user e.g. enqueueing the user into a high priority queue sending an alert to the PBX to immediately originate an outbound call to user and so on. At step the PBX originates an outbound call via a PSTN to the mobile device . The PBX may also send an alert about the originated call to the call center controller . It may also route the originated call to an available agent . The alert may similarly to the alert contain call routing information and or caller identification data .

The steps and may proceed similarly to the previously described steps and respectively. Proceeding to step the mobile device receives an alert of an incoming call via the PSTN. The mobile device may then alert the user of the incoming call such as by playing a ring tone vibrating flashing its display and so on. The user may then answer the call and participate in the call with the agent block . Referring to the steps of through delivering Web content from the agent station to the user may take place subsequent to step even though they are omitted from .

Therefore in the exemplary workflow of the user is therefore able to locally schedule an appointment to speak to an available agent at a time that is likely to be convenient for the user as well as equitable to other users who were previously waiting in the caller queue.

Moreover in the process flow of the system has reduced or eliminated needless and potentially frustrating interactions with the IVR component waiting while holding and excessive utilization of telecommunication networks e.g. a wireless telecommunication network and or a PSTN underlying voice connection . Other benefits are also provided though not mentioned here for reasons of brevity.

The data connection transmits the attached data to the mobile care server where it is received by the server in step . Not shown in the diagram the mobile care server may optionally forward the authentication data for verification of its authenticity to the backend system via the communication link . Upon receiving verification of authenticity from backend system in response the mobile care server may forward the caller authentication data along with the caller identification data to the call center controller . The controller in step receives the attached data and stores it. In some embodiments e.g. where the authenticity is not yet verified the call center controller verifies the authenticity of the authentication caller data at this time. The controller then returns confirmation of the received caller data and in some cases results of any verification of the authentication data to the mobile care server . At step the mobile care server receives confirmation from the call center controller and forwards confirmation onto the mobile device . At step the mobile device receives verification of the attached data. In some embodiments the application on the mobile device may then display via the graphical user interface that the user has been successfully authenticated.

As also shown in step the application may perform a getStats API call of the call center SDK in order to determine if the user s personal account manager is available e.g. by specifying the API parameter  PERSONAL ACCOUNT MANAGER AVAILABLE  . In some embodiments this action may occur automatically without additional user input e.g. if the user was successfully authenticated. At step the mobile care server receives a message resulting from the getStats request and forwards it to the call center controller . At step the call center controller receives the request and determines as necessary which one of the agents is the user s personal account manager such as by consulting a database of personal account managers based on a caller identification entry or a caller authentication entry which could contain an account number that is referenced in the database . The call center controller may retrieve receive or generate an agent availability datum and send it to mobile care server . In step the mobile care server receives the agent availability and forwards it to the mobile device . In step the mobile device receives the agent availability from the mobile care server and displays via its graphical user interface the availability of the user s personal account manager. If the personal account manager is currently available the display may include providing a menu option for the user to speak to the user s personal account manager.

At step the user sees and selects the menu option to speak to the personal account manager. Proceeding to step the mobile device transmits call routing data. This may be initiated by the graphical user interface based application calling the requestTransferDNIS function of the call center SDK passing in an identifier of the party with whom voice communications is desired e.g. the extension number for the user s personal account manager. The call center SDK then transmits a call routing datum and in some embodiments a caller identification datum to the mobile care server . At step the mobile care server receives the data and forwards it to the call center controller . In some embodiments the mobile care server additionally determines and provides with the call routing datum a caller identification datum . At step the call center controller receives the call routing datum and caller identification datum and provides call routing instructions to the PBX such as via communication link . At step the PBX saves the received call routing instructions. In one embodiment the call routing instructions may instruct the PBX regarding how it should respond to handleCalledNumberRequest messages that it may receive discussed in greater detail above. Referring back to step after successfully instructing the PBX with the call routing instructions the call center controller returns a successful acknowledgement to the mobile care server . In step the mobile care server receives the returned acknowledgement and relays it to the mobile device via the data connection . At step the mobile device receives a successful confirmation that the system is ready to specially e.g. personally route a voice call.

In response to receiving the successful confirmation the mobile device may then originate a new outbound voice call e.g. via a PSTN to the PBX . Proceeding to step the PBX receives the call identifies the caller and routes the call as per the call routing instructions previously saved in step . The PBX may route the call to the personal account manager and may provide an alert to the call center controller . In step similar to the previously described steps and the call center controller receives the previously saved caller data e.g. the caller authentication datum stored during step determines an agent station routed by step e.g. the agent station of the caller s personal account manager and sends information based on the retrieved caller data to the agent station . In step the agent station of the user s personal account manager receives the caller authentication datum which indicates that the caller is authenticated and displays caller authenticated on the agent s terminal .

Proceeding to step the agent who is the personal account manager of the user answers the call routed to the agent s station views the displayed caller authenticated message on the terminal and is able to assist the caller personally e.g. by performing a financial transaction in the caller s bank account without asking for account authentication. In some embodiments the caller authentication datum may be modified during a step to remove confidential information such as to not allow an agent to see an authenticated caller s social security number that the caller could have provided for authentication e.g. in step . The caller joins in the call at step and interacts with the caller s personal account manager without needing to provide authentication during the call.

The data structure associates a caller identification datum with a call routing datum e.g. it could associate the MSISDN 206 555 1212 with a desired routing destination of an Upgrades group or team of customer service agents . The system may use the data structure to indicated desired future call routing behavior for a future call e.g. as in the process steps and so on . The system may also use this or a similar data structure when sending an alert or a notification about how a call has been routed e.g. and so on . In one embodiment the call routing datum provides instructions to route the user to an IVR component that presents the user with a computerized voice menu that relates to product or service upgrades e.g. present the user with options for upgrading the user s mobile subscription service. 

The data structure contains the same information as the data structure as well as the caller context datum . In this example the caller context entry Callback requested at 8 34 PM indicates when a callback is requested. Since a day is not specified the callback time may be interpreted to mean on the same day. The presence of the call routing datum may indicate desired call routing instructions for the system to perform when carrying out the callback e.g. possibly at steps etc .

The data structure contains the caller identification datum and a caller context entry which contains a URL. The system may utilize this data structure for example when pushing Web content to a user e.g. during one or more of the steps and .

The data structure contains a caller identification datum representing an IMEI that specifies a particular mobile device such as a particular mobile phone supporting GSM communications and a caller authentication datum indicating an account number as well as an additional status that the password for the account has been verified. The system may utilize this data structure for example in one or more of steps and so on.

The data structure contains the information of the data structure additionally combined with a call routing entry . The call routing entry by a text string x indicates a routing destination of a particular call center agent at a phone extension number . The system may utilize this data structure for example in one or more of steps and e.g. in order to display caller authenticated on the terminal of the call center agent associated with extension or in steps if those steps were in addition to providing call routing instructions altered so that they also provided caller authentication information. 

The data structure contains the caller identification datum a caller authentication datum indicating that authentication verification has not yet been completed i.e. authentication is required for the known account number 95841321 which may be the number of a bank account a loan account a customer service account number etc caller context entry indicating that a user unsuccessfully attempted to make a purchase of a product due to an associated credit card being expired and a call routing datum indicating call routing instructions to route the caller e.g. to either one of the agents associated with extensions or or to extension if available otherwise to extension if is not available etc. This data structure may be passed to the system or between components of the system after a user has unsuccessfully made an attempt to purchase a product using a mobile device. The call routing entry may refer to call center agents who are preferred by the user or preferred by the system for dealing with soliciting credit card renewal information etc.

The data structure contains a call identification datum with an Internet Protocol Version 6 address in this example a caller context entry and a call routing entry . The context entry may indicate that the caller s mobile device has experienced an unplanned failure with information relating to the failure and the call routing entry indicates a desired call routing behavior relating to the Technical Support department. A mobile device may automatically send this data structure to the system for example when the caller experiences a hardware malfunction in order to facilitate the caller receiving knowledgeable assistance from a technical support representative.

Note that call center as referred to herein may be a logical rather than a physical entity. For example the agents servers or other components of the systems logically comprising the call center may not be physically located in one particular location but may be distributed across multiple locations. In some cases the servers and components may be arranged differently than are indicated above. Single components disclosed herein may be implemented as multiple components or some functions indicated to be performed by a certain component of the system may be performed by another component of the system. Furthermore different components may be combined such as the mobile care server and the computer telephony controller thereby eliminating the computer telephony connector and interface . In various embodiments components on the same machine may communicate between different threads or on the same thread via inter process communication or intra process communication including in some cases such as by marshalling the communications across one process to another including from one machine to another and so on.

Although not required aspects of the invention are described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as routines executed by a general purpose data processing device e.g. a server computer wireless device or personal computer. Those skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that aspects of the invention can be practiced with other communications data processing or computer system configurations including Internet appliances hand held devices including personal digital assistants PDAs wearable computers all manner of cellular or mobile phones including Voice over IP VoIP phones dumb terminals media players gaming devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics set top boxes network PCs mini computers mainframe computers and the like. Indeed the terms computer server host host system and the like are generally used interchangeably herein and refer to any of the above devices and systems as well as any data processor.

Aspects of the invention can be embodied in a special purpose computer or data processor that is specifically programmed configured or constructed to perform one or more of the computer executable instructions explained in detail herein. While aspects of the invention such as certain functions are described as being performed exclusively on a single device the invention can also be practiced in distributed environments where functions or modules are shared among disparate processing devices which are linked through a communications network such as a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Aspects of the invention may be stored or distributed on tangible computer readable media including magnetically or optically readable computer discs hard wired or preprogrammed chips e.g. EEPROM or flash semiconductor chips nanotechnology memory biological memory or other data storage media. Alternatively computer implemented instructions data structures screen displays and other data under aspects of the invention may be distributed over the Internet or over other networks including wireless networks on a propagated signal on a propagation medium e.g. an electromagnetic wave s a sound wave etc. over a period of time or they may be provided on any analog or digital network packet switched circuit switched or other scheme .

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling or connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above Detailed Description of examples of the invention is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed above. While specific examples for the invention are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example while processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative implementations may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified to provide alternative or subcombinations. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed or implemented in parallel or may be performed at different times. Further any specific numbers noted herein are only examples alternative implementations may employ differing values or ranges.

The teachings of the invention provided herein can be applied to other systems not necessarily the system described above. The elements and acts of the various examples described above can be combined to provide further implementations of the invention. Some alternative implementations of the invention may include not only additional elements to those implementations noted above but also may include fewer elements.

Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the invention can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further implementations of the invention.

These and other changes can be made to the invention in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain examples of the invention and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the invention can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its specific implementation while still being encompassed by the invention disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the invention should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the invention with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the invention to the specific examples disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the invention encompasses not only the disclosed examples but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the invention under the claims.

To reduce the number of claims certain aspects of the invention are presented below in certain claim forms but the applicant contemplates the various aspects of the invention in any number of claim forms. For example while only one aspect of the invention is recited as a means plus function claim under 35 U.S.C sec. 112 sixth paragraph other aspects may likewise be embodied as a means plus function claim or in other forms such as being embodied in a computer readable medium. Any claims intended to be treated under 35 U.S.C. 112 6 will begin with the words means for but use of the term for in any other context is not intended to invoke treatment under 35 U.S.C. 112 6. Accordingly the applicant reserves the right to pursue additional claims after filing this application to pursue such additional claim forms in either this application or in a continuing application.

