---

title: Determining user authentication requirements based on the current location of the user being within a predetermined area requiring altered authentication requirements
abstract: Systems, apparatus, methods, and computer program products are provided for determining a user's authentication requirements/credentials for a specific network access session based on the current location of the user in comparison to predetermined boundaries of location that have altered authentication requirements, in the form of, increased or decreased authentication requirements/credentials that differ from the standard authentication requirements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09390242&OS=09390242&RS=09390242
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 09390242
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140207
---
In general embodiments of the invention relate to user authentication and more particularly determining user authentication requirements credentials for a specific mobile network access session based on the current location of the user being within a predefined area requiring altered i.e. increased or decreased authentication requirements.

User authentication is typically required when a user conducts a transaction using a debit credit card or seeks access to network based services that store or have access to information that is personnel and or warrants protection from unauthorized access by others e.g. an online or mobile banking service or the like . User authentication serves to validate that the individual conducting the transaction is the individual authorized to use the debit credit card account or that the individual seeking access to the network based service is the individual authorized to access the service. Typically a user provides authentication credentials otherwise referred to herein as authentication requirements e.g. a user ID and password which are then compared to the user s securely stored authentication credentials and if the authentication credentials provided by the user match the stored authentication credentials the user is allowed to conduct the transaction or gain access to the network based service.

In many instances a burden is placed on the user providing the authentication requirements. Specifically the user must remember their authentication credential or in the event that the user forgets the authentication credentials undertake a procedure to recover the authentication credentials. Remembering the authentication credentials can become problematic if the user does not use the network service and or conduct such transactions frequently or if the user is required to change their authentication credentials periodically in order to insure their security. In addition to problems associated with remembering authentication credentials the mere process of entering such authentication credentials either at a point of sale POS location or at a gateway to network service entry can be a burdensome and risky endeavor. In some instances entry of such authentication credentials can be an inefficient and time consuming process. For example if the user is implementing a handheld mobile device such as smart cellular telephone or the like to gain access to a network based service entry of the authentication credentials on the device requires the ability of the user to see the display and accurately enter the credentials via the downsized keypad. If the authentication credentials require different case lettering and or non alphanumeric characters for security purposes entry becomes even more daunting and prone to entry errors. Moreover if the user repeatedly enters the authentication incorrectly the network service may see this as a security risk and bar the user from further attempts thereby denying the user entry to the network service.

In addition to user inefficiency problems entering authentication credentials in a public setting such as a POS location or via a mobile device presents risks that the authentication credentials may be nefariously intercepted by someone in the vicinity.

In today s computing networking environments especially in the mobile or wireless realm the entity that provides the network service or the authenticating entity may have instantaneous availability to other information besides the user provided authentication credentials which can serve to at least assist in validating the identity of the user. Therefore a need exists to develop other methods apparatus and computer program products for user authentication. The desired methods apparatus and computer program products for user authentication should alleviate problems associated with inefficiencies in the current user authentication process and or add additional security to the user authentication process. Further the desired methods apparatus and computer program products should leverage other information that the authenticating entity knows about the user at the time of the authentication request to assist in the authentication process. In this regard the other information known about the user may serve to adjust the authentication requirements credentials that the user must provide to gain access or in some instances eliminate the need for the user to provide authentication requirements credentials.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the present invention address the above needs and or achieve other advantages by determining a user s authentication requirements credentials for a specific network access session based on the current location of the user in comparison to predetermined boundaries of location that have altered authentication requirements i.e. increased or decreased authentication requirements credentials that differ from the standard authentication requirements . The entity providing the network service e.g. a financial institution providing a banking application or the like may configure an area for increased authentication requirements based on the area having a higher than average misappropriation occurrence rate or the area having unsecured wireless network access or the like. In other embodiments the user may configure areas for altered authentication requirements for example the user may designate a frequently visited location as requiring decreased authentication requirements or the like. The predetermined area may also coincide with a predetermined time e.g. time of year month day or the like in which the altered authentication requirements apply. Moreover the altered authentication requirements may be temporal for example the altered authentication requirements apply to a specific event occurring at a specified time at the designated location.

As such when the authentication requirements are decreased the present invention serves to expedite the process for authenticating a user who desires to gain access to a network service such as a banking application or the like. In those embodiments in which the authentication requirements are increased the present invention serves to add heightened security in those instances in which the user is located in a location that is deemed to require such.

An apparatus for determining user authentication requirements for accessing a service define first embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and a processor in communication with the memory. The apparatus further includes an authentication requirements module that is stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The module is configured to receive a request for a user to access a service requiring authentication and in response to receiving the request determine a current physical location of the user. The module is further configured to determine that the current location of the user is proximate to or within a predefined physical area having altered authentication requirements. The altered authentication requirements provide for one of 1 increased or 2 decreased authentication requirements in comparison to standard authentication requirements used to access the service. In addition the module is configured to identify the altered authentication requirements associated with the predefined physical area. In response to identifying the authentication requirements the user is requested to provide the identified authentication requirements and is provided access to the service in response to the user providing the determined authentication requirements credentials.

In specific embodiments of the apparatus the predefined physical area is defined by an entity providing the network service while in other embodiments the predefined physical area is defined by the user.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the authentication requirements module is further configured to determine that that the current location of the user is within the predefined physical area during a predetermined period of time having altered authentication requirements.

In further specific embodiments the apparatus includes a service access module that is stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The service access module is configured to determine that the current location of the user is within the predefined physical area having an altered level of access within the service. The altered level of access provides for one of 1 increased or 2 decreased access to functionality within the service once the user has met the altered authentication requirements.

Moreover in specific embodiments of the apparatus the authentication requirements module is further configured to determine a level of authentication required based on proximity of the current user to the predefined physical area.

In additional embodiments of the apparatus the predefined physical area is associated with a physical area experiencing above normal incidents of misappropriation and the altered authentication requirements are increased authentication requirements while in other embodiments of the apparatus the predefined physical area is associated with a physical area in which unsecure wireless communication is prevalent and the altered authentication requirements are increased authentication requirements.

A method for determining user authentication requirements defines second embodiments of the invention. The method includes receiving a request for a user to access a service requiring authentication and in response to receiving the request determining a current physical location of the user. The method further includes determining that the current location of the user is proximate to or within a predefined physical area having altered authentication requirements. Altered authentication requirements provide for one of 1 increased or 2 decreased authentication requirements in comparison to standard authentication requirements used to access the service. In addition the method includes identifying the altered authentication requirements associated with the predefined physical area. In response the identifying the altered authentication requirements the user is requested to provide the identified authentication requirements and is provided access to the service in response to the user providing the determined authentication requirements credentials.

In specific embodiments of the method the predefined physical area is defined by the entity providing the services and in other embodiments of the method the predefined physical area is defined by the user. As such the entity providing the network services and or the user may designate certain areas having higher risk as areas requiring increased authentication requirements credentials. Conversely the entity providing the network services and or the user may designate certain areas having lower risk as areas requiring decreased authentication requirements credentials.

In further specific embodiments of the invention the predefined physical area may be temporal such that determining that the current location of the user is within the predefined physical area having altered authentication requirements further includes determining that the current location of the user is within the predefined physical area during a predetermined period of time in which the altered authentication requirements are invoked.

In additional specific embodiments the method includes determining that the current location of the user is within the predefined physical area having an altered level of access within the service wherein the altered level of access provides for one of 1 increased or 2 decreased access to functionality within the service once the user has met the altered authentication requirements. The level of access defines functionality available to the user within the service based on the determined authentication requirements and the determination of the level of access may be independent of the determined altered authentication requirements.

In still further specific embodiments of the method determining that the current location of the user is proximate to the predefined physical area having altered authentication requirements further includes determining a level of authentication required based on proximity of the current user to the predefined physical area. In still further embodiments the level of authentication may associated with a determination of where the user currently lies on an authentication continuum that takes account other factors attributes that affect the user s current state in addition to the user s current location.

Moreover in addition embodiments of the method the predefined physical area is associated with a physical area experiencing above normal incidents of misappropriation or in area in which unsecure wireless communication is prevalent and the altered authentication requirements are increased authentication requirements.

A computer program product including a non transitory computer readable medium defines third embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive a request for a user to access a service requiring authentication Additionally the computer readable medium includes a second set of codes for causing a computer to in response to receiving the request determine a current physical location of the user. In addition the computer readable medium includes a third set of codes for causing a computer to determine that the current location of the user is proximate to or within a predefined physical area having altered authentication requirements. The altered authentication requirements provide for one of 1 increased or 2 decreased authentication requirements in comparison to standard authentication requirements used to access the service. Additionally the computer readable medium includes a fourth set of codes for causing a computer to identify the altered authentication requirements associated with the predefined physical area.

Thus systems apparatus methods and computer program products herein described in detail below provide for determining a user s authentication requirements credentials for a specific network access session based on the current location of the user in comparison to predetermined boundaries of location that have altered authentication requirements i.e. increased or decreased authentication requirements credentials that differ from the standard authentication requirements . Both the entity providing the network service or the user may designate areas for altered authentication requirements credentials. The predetermined area may also coincide with a predetermined time e.g. time of year month day or the like in which the altered authentication requirements apply. Moreover the altered authentication requirements may be temporal for example the altered authentication requirements apply to a specific event occurring at a specified time at the designated location.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. Although some embodiments of the invention described herein are generally described as involving a financial institution one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the invention may be utilized by other businesses that take the place of or work in conjunction with financial institutions to perform one or more of the processes or steps described herein as being performed by a financial institution.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art in view of this disclosure the present invention may be embodied as an apparatus e.g. a system computer program product and or other device a method or a combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product comprising a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code computer readable instructions embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples e.g. a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a tangible medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a time dependent access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other tangible optical or magnetic storage device.

Computer program code computer readable instructions for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may be written in an object oriented scripted or unscripted programming language such as Java Perl Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code computer readable instructions for carrying out operations of the invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods or apparatuses the term apparatus including systems and computer program products . It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the instructions which execute by the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

In those embodiments in which the apparatus comprises or is in communication with a mobile communication device the user of the mobile device may be identified by gathering device identification information from the mobile device to generate the device s fingerprint or unique signature of the mobile device. Device identification information may be collected from a variety of sources. In some embodiments the device identification information includes an identification code. The identification code may be but is not limited to a serial number or an item number of the device. In some embodiments the device identification information may be associated with a chip associated with the mobile device. The chip may be but is not limited to a subscriber identification module SIM card removable hard drive processor microprocessor or the like. In other embodiments the device identification information may be associated with a removable part of the mobile device. Removable parts include but are not limited to detachable keyboards battery covers cases hardware accessories or the like. Removable parts may contain serial numbers or part numbers. In alternative embodiments a unique key code or piece of software provided by a financial institution may be downloaded onto the mobile device. This unique key code or piece of software may then serve as device identification information. Typically the device identification information e.g. a serial number an identification code an International Mobile Station Equipment Identity IMEI a phone number a chip a removable part or similar pieces of device identification information is collected from the mobile device without requiring user input. For example the device identification information may be automatically provided by the mobile device. Alternatively the mobile device may provide the information without requiring user input after receiving a request from a system for the identification information. In other embodiments device identification information may be entered manually at the mobile device. For example if the mobile device s serial number cannot be automatically located perhaps due to interference long range or similar hindrance the user may be prompted for manual entry of the serial number or an identification code an International Mobile Station Equipment Identity IMEI a phone number a chip a removable part or similar pieces of device identification information . The device identification information may be stored and subsequently used to identify the user of the mobile device.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. Alternatively computer program implemented steps or acts may be combined with operator or human implemented steps or acts in order to carry out an embodiment of the invention.

According to embodiments of the invention described herein various systems apparatus methods and computer program products are herein described for determining a user s authentication requirements credentials for a specific network access session based on the current location of the user in comparison to predetermined boundaries of location that have altered authentication requirements i.e. increased or decreased authentication requirements credentials that differ from the standard authentication requirements . The entity providing the network service e.g. a financial institution providing a banking application or the like may configure an area for increased authentication requirements based on the area having a higher than average misappropriation occurrence rate or the area having unsecured wireless network access or the like. In other embodiments the user may configure areas for altered authentication requirements for example the user may designate a frequently visited location as requiring decreased authentication requirements or the like. The predetermined area may also coincide with a predetermined time e.g. time of year month day or the like in which the altered authentication requirements apply. Moreover the altered authentication requirements may be temporal for example the altered authentication requirements apply to a specific event occurring at a specified time at the designated location.

As such when the authentication requirements are decreased the present invention serves to expedite the process for authenticating a user who desires to gain access to a network service such as a banking application or the like. In those embodiments in which the authentication requirements are increased the present invention serves to add heightened security in those instances in which the user is located in a location that is deemed to require such.

Referring to a block diagram is presented of an apparatus configured determining user authentication requirements credentials for a specific mobile network access session based on the current location of the user being within a predefined area requiring altered i.e. increased or decreased authentication requirements in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform having a memory and at least one processor in communication with the memory . The memory of apparatus stores authentication requirements module . The authentication requirements module is configured to determining user authentication requirements credentials for a specific mobile network access session based on the current location of the user being within a predefined area requiring altered i.e. increased or decreased authentication requirements. A specific example of a network service may include but is not limited to a mobile banking network service or the like. As such the authentication requirements module is configured to receive a request from a mobile communication device for a user to access a network based service that requires user authentication . The user authentication may be required to gain access to the network service and or to conduct a transaction on the network service.

In response to receiving the request the module is configured to determine the current physical i.e. geographic location of the user. The user is known to the module since the service request is coming from a mobile communication device that is identifiable by procedures discussed previously. The current physical location of the user may be determined by a location determining mechanism e.g. Global Positioning System GPS device or the like in the mobile communication device or via wireless signals transmitted from the mobile device using triangulation methodology or the like. In addition in those embodiments in which the mobile communication device is linked to vehicle equipped with location determining mechanisms the vehicle and or a combination of the vehicle and the mobile communication may determine the current physical location .

Once the authentication requirements module has the current physical location of the user the module is further configured to determine that the current physical location is proximity to or within a predetermined physical area having altered authentication requirements . In specific embodiments certain geographic areas will be predetermined as requiring increased authentication requirements or decreased authentication requirements in comparison to standard authentication requirements used to access the service i.e. the authentication requirements credentials typically requested of a user absent any further knowledge about the state of the user . Increased authentication requirements may be required if the predetermined physical area has been identified as an area of high risk e.g. high misappropriation rate area unsecure wireless communication area or the like . In such embodiments the increased authentication requirements may include a request for the user to provide further personnel data or answer out of wallet challenge questions. In specific embodiments in which the predetermined physical area has been identified as an area of highest risk the altered authentication requirements may include barring the user from accessing the service i.e. no authentication possible . Decreased authentication requirements may be required if the predetermined area has been identified as an area of low risk e.g. an area where the user customarily resides . In such embodiments the decreased authentication requirements may be that no authentication is required by the user to access the service or partial authentication i.e. soft authentication is required. Partial authentication is defined as some form of authentication credentials less than full standard authentication credentials. For example if full credentials i.e. standard credentials normally required to access the service comprise a username and passcode password partial soft authentication credentials may be limited a less complex passcode e.g. a four digit Personal Identification Number PIN or the like.

Once the determination is made that the current physical location of the user is proximate to or within a predetermined physical area having altered authentication requirements the altered authentication requirements are identified and a request is provided to the user typically via display on the mobile communication device to input the altered authentication requirements. Once the user has inputted the altered authentication requirements the user is provided access to the service.

Referring to a block diagram is presented of an apparatus configured to determining user authentication requirements credentials for a specific mobile network access session based on the current location of the user being within a predefined area requiring altered i.e. increased or decreased authentication requirements in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus may include any type and or combination of one or more computing devices. The apparatus is operable to receive and execute modules routines and applications such as authentication requirements module and the like.

The apparatus includes computing platform that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes at least one processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs such as authentication requirements module or the like stored in the memory of apparatus . Processor includes various processing subsystems not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. Additionally processing subsystems may include any portion of the functionality of authentication requirements module obviating the need for such applications and modules to be stored in the memory.

As previously noted in relation to memory stores authentication requirements module that is configured to determine user authentication requirements credentials for a specific mobile network access session based on the current location of the user being within a predefined area requiring altered i.e. increased or decreased authentication requirements. The authentication requirements module is configured to receive a request from a mobile communication device for a user to access a network based service that requires user authentication . The user authentication may be required to gain access to the network service and or to conduct a transaction on the network service.

In response to receiving the request the module is configured to determine the current physical i.e. geographic location of the user. The user is known to the module since the service request is coming from a mobile communication device that is identifiable by procedures discussed previously. The current physical location of the user may be determined by a location determining mechanism e.g. Global Positioning System GPS device or the like in the mobile communication device or via wireless signals transmitted from the mobile device using triangulation methodology or the like. In specific embodiments the determination of the altered authentication requirements may be temporal i.e. the altered authentication requirements in the predetermined physical area exist only for a predetermined time period . In such embodiments the module is further configured to determine a current time .

Once the authentication requirements module has the current physical location of the user the module is further configured to determine that the current physical location is proximity to or within a predetermined physical area having altered authentication requirements . In specific embodiments certain geographic areas will be predetermined as requiring increased authentication requirements or decreased authentication requirements in comparison to standard authentication requirements used to access the service i.e. the authentication requirements credentials typically requested of a user absent any further knowledge about the state of the user . In such embodiments the increased authentication requirements may include a request for the user to provide further personnel data or answer out of wallet challenge questions. The decreased authentication requirements may be that no authentication is required by the user to access the service or partial authentication i.e. soft authentication is required. Partial authentication is defined as some form of authentication credentials less than full standard authentication credentials.

In specific embodiments of the invention the predetermined physical area may be defined by the service provider . For example if the service provider is a financial institution providing an online or mobile banking service the financial institution may identify certain areas as high risk and require increased authentication requirements in such areas. Examples of such high risk areas include but are not limited to areas having historically high rates of misappropriation areas having unsecured wireless communication and the like. In addition the service provider may designate as area as requiring altered authentication requirements on a permanent basis or a temporary basis. For example a service provider may designate a physical area where a heavily attended event is to be held as an area requiring increased authentication requirements for the time period over which the event will be held.

In other specific embodiments of the invention the predetermined physical area may be defined by the user . Such designation by the user may be permanent or temporary. For example if the user is aware of upcoming travel plans the user may designate travel routes or specific locations at the travel destination i.e. hotels residences business offices as areas requiring decreased authentication requirements . Further if the upcoming travel plans are a one time only occurrence the user may designate the locations as requiring decreased authentication requirements on a temporary basis i.e. for a time period that expires at the conclusion of the travel period . However if the travel occurs on a regular and or ongoing basis e.g. permanent vacation residence same business travel destination or the like the user may designate the locations as requiring decreased authentication requirements on a permanent basis or for designated continual time periods e.g. certain times of week month year or the like. 

In those embodiments of the invention in which the predetermined physical area has altered authentication requirements during a specified predetermined time period e.g. on a temporary basis or for designated time periods only the module is further configured to determine that the current time is within the designate predetermined time period such that the altered authentication requirements designated for the predetermined time period are invoked.

In further embodiments the authentication module may be configured to determine a level of authentication from amongst a plurality of levels. Each level may be defined by predetermined based on distance threshold from the predetermined physical area . The predetermined distance thresholds may vary depending on the type or specificity of the predetermined physical area . In specific embodiments of the invention the levels of authentication may define three levels of authentication 1 no authentication level 2 partial soft authentication level and 3 heightened authentication.

The no authentication level may be based on the user currently being physically located within the boundaries of predetermined physical area . The no authentication level is configured such that the user is not required to provide authentication credentials to access the service. The partial authentication level may be based on 1 the user currently being physically located within the boundaries of the predetermined physical location or 2 the user currently being physically located outside of the predetermined location by a predetermined distance. The partial authentication level is configured such that the user is required to provide to some but less than full authentication requirements credentials to access the service. For example if full authentication credentials i.e. standard credentials normally required to access the service comprise a username and password partial credentials may be limited to a less complex passcode e.g. a four digit Personal Identification Number PIN or the like. The heightened authentication level may be based on the user currently being physically located within the physical area and may require the user to input additional personal information or answers to out of wallet challenge questions.

In further embodiments the apparatus includes a service access module that is stored in the memory and is executable by the processor . The service access module is configured to determine a level of access available to the user upon the user meeting the determined authentication requirements. The level of access defines functionality available to the user within the service and may comprise decreased access to functionality compared to normal functionality or increased access to functionality compared to normal functionality . In such embodiments the determination of the level of access granted to the user may be independent of the determination of authentication requirements. The level of access may define transactions or transaction limits that the user is authorized to conduct or information the user is authorized to access during the session.

Referring to a block diagram is presented of an apparatus configured to determining a user s authentication requirements credentials for a specific network access session based on the current location of the user in comparison to a user s normal boundary of location in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus may include any type and or combination of one or more computing devices. The apparatus is operable to receive and execute modules routines and applications such as authentication requirements module and the like.

The apparatus includes computing platform that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes at least one processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs such as authentication requirements module or the like stored in the memory of apparatus . Processor includes various processing subsystems not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. Additionally processing subsystems may include any portion of the functionality of authentication requirements module obviating the need for such applications and modules to be stored in the memory.

The memory stores authentication requirements module that is configured to determining a user s authentication requirements credentials for a specific network access session based on the current location of the user in comparison to a user s normal boundary of location. The authentication requirements module is configured to receive a request from a mobile communication device for a user to access a network based service that requires user authentication . The user authentication may be required to gain access to the network service and or to conduct a transaction on the network service.

In response to receiving the request the module is configured to determine the current physical i.e. geographic location of the user. The user is known to the module since the service request is coming from a mobile communication device that is identifiable by procedures discussed previously. The current physical location of the user may be determined by a location determining mechanism e.g. Global Positioning System GPS device or the like in the mobile communication device or via wireless signals transmitted from the mobile device using triangulation methodology or the like.

Once the authentication requirements module has the current physical location of the user the module is further configured to determine the proximity in distance of the current physical location of the user to a predetermined physical location . The module may access a user profile to determine that the user is associated with one or more predetermined physical locations . The predetermined physical locations are geographic areas in which the user is frequently located for example the user s place of residence the user s place of business or the like. Predetermined physical locations may be predetermined based on user inputs that identify the location. In such embodiments a user who is travelling may designate specific physical location e.g. a temporary residence or place of business for a specific period of time i.e. the travel period and as such the predetermined physical locations may be temporal in nature. In other embodiments of the invention the predetermined physical locations may be determined intuitively in an automated fashion based on monitoring over time the location of the user in relation to their mobile device. In such embodiments the user may notified via an alert or the like of such locations for the purpose of confirming the location as one in which less authentication requirements may be required to access a service.

The authentication requirements module is further configured to determine the authentication requirements i.e. the authentication credentials required by the user for the user to currently access the service based on the proximity in distance of the current physical location of the user to the predetermined physical location .

In specific embodiments of the invention the authentication requirements module to determine the minimal authentication requirements for the user to access the service based on proximity in distance of the current physical location of the user to the predetermined physical location . In such embodiments of the invention the minimal authentication requirements may be no authentication required or partial authentication required based on the user being located within the boundaries of the predetermined physical location . In such embodiment of the invention in which the user gains access to the service by providing the minimal authentication requirements credentials the user may be provided access to decreased functionality within the service i.e. less than full functionality . Decreased functionality may limit the user in terms of the transactions they may conduct within the service the transaction amounts and or the information that is accessible to the user during the network session. In such embodiments of the invention if the user desires full functionality within the service the user may provide full authentication requirements credentials.

In further embodiments the authentication module may be configured to determine a level of authentication from amongst a plurality of levels. Each level may be defined by predetermined distance thresholds from the predetermined physical location . The predetermined distance thresholds may vary depending on the type or specificity of the predetermined physical location . In specific embodiments of the invention the levels of authentication may define three levels of authentication 1 no authentication level 2 partial soft authentication level and 3 full authentication.

The no authentication level may be based on the user currently being physically located within the boundaries of predetermined physical location . The no authentication level is configured such that the user is not required to provide authentication credentials to access the service. The partial authentication level may be based on 1 the user currently being physically located within the boundaries of the predetermined physical location or 2 the user currently being physically located outside of the predetermined location by a predetermined distance i.e. first distance threshold . The predetermined distance is typically configured such that it represents a slight deviation from the boundaries of the predetermined physical location . The partial authentication level is configured such that the user is required to provide to some but less than full authentication requirements credentials to access the service. For example if full authentication credentials i.e. standard credentials normally required to access the service comprise a user ID passcode and identification of a predetermined site key partial credentials may be limited to user ID or the passcode or a less complex passcode e.g. a four digit Personal Identification Number PIN or the like. The full authentication level may be based on the user currently being physically located outside of the boundaries of predetermined physical area by a predetermined distance. The predetermined distance is typically configured such that it indicates a significant deviation from the boundaries of the predetermined physical location. The full authentication level is configured such that the user is required to provide their designated full set of authentication requirements credentials i.e. the authentication requirements required if no other information is known about the user at the time of the request to access the service .

In alternate embodiments of the apparatus the authentication requirements module is configured to determine a point or location along an authentication continuum based at least in part on current location of the user in relation to the boundaries of the predetermined physical location . The point or location along the authentication continuum defines the authentication requirements. In this regard the authentication continuum may comprise a sliding scale such that one end of the continuum defines no authentication and the other end of the continuum defines full authentication. In such embodiments of the apparatus other factors attributes known about the user at the time of the request and or attributes related to the service being accessed or the time of the service request may be used in the determination of the point or location along an authentication continuum . In such embodiments of the invention the point location along the authentication continuum may be determined objectively e.g. using distance and time thresholds or subjectively implementing heuristics or the like to determine an optimal point along the authentication continuum based on the totality of information known about the user the service or the environment at the time of the access request.

In further embodiments of the apparatus the authentication module is configured to determine authentication requirements by determining that the current location of the user is located within one of a plurality of zones of authentication. For example a first zone of authentication may be defined by the boundaries of the user s place of residence and or the user s place of business . It should be noted that the first zone may further delineated to a specific location within the place of residence e.g. specific apartment building room or the like or a specific location with the place of business e.g. a specific building or office within a building . The first zone of authentication may define the authentication requirements as either no authentication required or partial authentication less than full authentication requirements credentials . In another example a second zone of authentication may be defined by the residence of an individual associated with the user e.g. a friend relative or the like and or a place of business consistently frequented by the user e.g. a grocery store restaurant or the like . The second zone of authentication may define the authentication requirements as less than full authentication requirements and more than the authentication requirements required in the first zone.

In further embodiments the apparatus includes a service access module that is stored in the memory and is executable by the processor . The service access module is configured to determine a level of access available to the user upon the user meeting the determined authentication requirements. The level of access defines functionality available to the user within the service and may be based on the proximity in distance of the current physical location of the user to the predetermined physical location. In such embodiments the determination of the level of access granted to the user may be independent of the determination of authentication requirements. While in other embodiments of the invention the determination of the level of access may be independent of the determination of the proximity in distance of the current physical location of the user to the predetermined physical location i.e. the determination of level of access may be based on other factors attributes related to the user s current state the current environment time and or the network service being accessed. The level of access may define transactions or transaction limits that the user is authorized to conduct or information the user is authorized to access during the session.

Referring to a block diagram is presented of an apparatus configured to determine a user s authentication requirements credentials for a specific mobile network access session based on the current location of the user in comparison to a known typical travel route of the user in accordance with alternate embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus may include any type and or combination of one or more computing devices. The apparatus is operable to receive and execute modules routines and applications such as authentication requirements module and the like.

The apparatus includes computing platform that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes at least one processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs such as authentication requirements module or the like stored in the memory of apparatus . Processor includes various processing subsystems not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. Additionally processing subsystems may include any portion of the functionality of authentication requirements module obviating the need for such applications and modules to be stored in the memory.

The memory stores authentication requirements module that is configured to determine a user s authentication requirements credentials for a specific mobile network access session based on the current location of the user in comparison to a known typical travel route of the user. The authentication requirements module is configured to receive a request for a user to access a network based service that requires user authentication . The user authentication may be required to gain access to the network service e.g. an Internet based service accessible via an application i.e. app executable on a user device such as a mobile communication device and or to conduct a transaction on the network service.

In response to receiving the request the module is configured to determine 1 the current physical i.e. geographic location of the user and time and 2 that the user of the apparatus is associated with a predetermined travel route having location boundaries and a time period . The user is known to the module since the service request is coming from a mobile communication device that is identifiable by procedures discussed previously. As such the module accesses a user profile or a database of known travel routes to determine that the user is associated with one or more predetermined travel route. The current physical location of the user may be determined by a location determining mechanism e.g. Global Positioning System GPS device or the like in the mobile communication device which sent the service access request or via wireless signals transmitted from the mobile communication device using triangulation methodology or the like.

Once the authentication requirements module has determined that the user is associated with a predetermined travel route and has determined the current physical location of the user and the current time the module is further configured to determine the proximity in distance and time of the current physical location of the user and current time to the predetermined travel route i.e. the location boundaries and time period .

The authentication requirements module is further configured to determine the authentication requirements i.e. the authentication credentials required by the user for user to currently access the service based on the proximity in distance and time of the current physical location of the user and current time to the predetermined travel route . In specific embodiments of the invention the authentication requirements are defined by levels of authentication . In specific embodiments of the invention the levels of authentication may define three levels of authentication 1 no authentication level 2 partial soft authentication level and 3 full authentication .

The no authentication level may be based on the user currently being physically located within the predetermined location boundaries of the travel route and the current time being within the time period of the travel route . The no authentication level is configured such that the user is not required to provide authentication credentials to access the service.

The partial authentication level may be based on 1 the user currently being physically located within the predetermined location boundaries of the travel route and the current time being within the time period of the travel route or 2 the user currently being physically located outside of the predetermined location boundaries of the travel route by a predetermined distance and or the current time being outside of the time period by a predetermined allotted time. The predetermined distance and the predetermined allotted time are typically configured such that they are slight deviations from the location boundaries and time period of the travel route . The partial authentication level is configured such that the user is required to provide to some but less than full authentication requirements credentials to access the service. For example if full authentication credentials i.e. standard credentials normally required to access the service comprise a user ID passcode and identification of a predetermined site key partial credentials may be limited to user ID or the passcode or a less complex passcode e.g. a four digit Personal Identification Number PIN or the like.

The full authentication level may be based on 1 the user currently being physically located outside of the location boundaries of travel route by a predetermined distance and or 2 the current time being outside of the time period of the travel route by a predetermined time. The predetermined distance and the predetermined time are typically configured such that they are significant deviations from the location boundaries and time period of the travel route . The full authentication level is configured such that the user is required to provide their designated full set of authentication requirements credentials i.e. the authentication requirements required if no other information is known about the user at the time of the request to access the service .

In alternate embodiments of the apparatus the authentication requirements module is configured to determine a point or location along an authentication continuum based at least in part on current location of the user and the current time in relation to the location boundaries and the time period of the travel route . The point or location along the authentication continuum defines the authentication requirements. In this regard the authentication continuum may comprise a sliding scale such that one end of the continuum defines no authentication and the other end of the continuum defines full authentication. In such embodiments of the apparatus other factors attributes known about the user at the time of the request and or attributes related to the service being accessed or the time of the service request may be used in the determination of the point or location along an authentication continuum . In such embodiments of the invention the point location along the authentication continuum may be determined objectively e.g. using distance and time thresholds or subjectively implementing heuristics or the like to determine an optimal point along the authentication continuum based on the totality of information known about the user the service or the environment at the time of the access request.

In further embodiments the apparatus includes a service access module that is stored in the memory and is executable by the processor . The service access module is configured to determine a level of access available to the user upon the user providing the determined authentication requirements. The level of access defines functionality available to the user within the service and may be based on the determined authentication requirements or may be determined independent of the determined authentication requirements. Functionality may be a transaction that the user is authorized to conduct or information the user is authorized to access during the session. The determination of the level of access may take into account the proximity in distance and time of the user to the travel route as well as other information known about the user or the user s current environment at the time of the access request.

Referring to a block diagram is presented of an apparatus configured to determining a user s authentication requirements credentials for a specific service along an authentication continuum based on a current state of the user and or service attributes in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus may include any type and or combination of one or more computing devices. In specific embodiments the apparatus may be a server in communication with a mobile communication device or a mobile communication device. The apparatus is operable to receive and execute modules routines and applications such as authentication requirements module and the like.

The apparatus includes computing platform that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and nonvolatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes at least one processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API layer not shown in that interfaces with any resident programs such as authentication requirements module or the like stored in the memory of apparatus . Processor includes various processing subsystems not shown in embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. Additionally processing subsystems may include any portion of the functionality of authentication requirements module obviating the need for such applications and modules to be stored in the memory.

Memory stores authentication requirements module that is determining a user s authentication requirements credentials for a specific service along an authentication continuum based on a current state of the user and or service attributes in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The authentication requirements module is configured to receive a request from a mobile communication device for a user to perform a function such as access a network based service that requires user authentication or conduct a purchase transaction using a debit credit card or the like.

In response to receiving the request the module is configured to determine the at least one of current physical state condition of the user and or attributes related to the function requiring access. The user is known to the module since the service request is coming from a mobile communication device that is identifiable by procedures discussed previously. The current physical state of the user may be determined by mechanisms disposed in the wireless communication device such as location determining mechanisms Global Positioning System GPS device or the like accelerometers other sensors or the like. The current state of the user may include but is not limited to the geographic location of the user in relation to the mobile communication device the movement of the user in a specified direction the movement of the user across a predetermined boundary line the change in location direction of the user or the like.

Attributes related to the function may include the type of service being accessed or type of transaction being conducted the time e.g. time of day week month year or the like of the access request or transaction the amount of the transaction and the like.

Once the authentication requirements module has determined at least one of the current physical state of the user and or attributes related to the function the module is further configured to determine a location along an authentication continuum based at least in part on at least one of 1 a current physical state condition of the user or 2 an attribute related to the function . The location along the authentication continuum defines the authentication requirements credentials required for the user to perform the function i.e. access a service conduct a transaction or the like . In specific embodiments of the invention the authentication continuum is a sliding scale continuum in which one end of the continuum is defined by no authentication required to perform the function the opposite end of the continuum is defined by either full authentication required heightened authentication required i.e. additional authentication requirements beyond standard authentication requirements e.g. additional personal information from the user or answers to out of wallet challenge questions or no authentication allowed at this time and locations in between vary the degree amount of authentication requirements required for the user to perform the function.

In specific embodiments of the invention the location along the authentication continuum is an objective determination based on the at least one of the current physical state condition of the user and or inclusion or omission of attributes related to the function . In other specific embodiments of the invention the location along the authentication continuum is determined subjectively implementing heuristics or the like based on a totality of the current physical state condition of the user the attributes related to the function and any other conditions attributes or the like related to the user or the function which may affect the authentication requirements. Conditions attributes related to the user are those that have an effect on validating the identity of the user and conditions attributes of the function are those that have an effect on the risk involved with the function or providing access to the function.

In further embodiments the authentication module may be configured to determine a level of authentication from amongst a plurality of levels. Each level may be predetermined based on different authentication requirement criteria related to the state of the user or the attributes of the function. In specific embodiments of the invention the levels of authentication may define four levels of authentication 1 no authentication level 2 partial soft authentication level 3 full authentication level and 4 heightened authentication level.

The no authentication level is configured such that the user is not required to provide authentication credentials to access the service. The partial authentication level is configured such that the user is required to provide to some but less than full authentication requirements credentials to access the service. For example if full authentication credentials i.e. standard credentials normally required to access the service comprise a username and password partial credentials may be limited to a less complex passcode e.g. a four digit Personal Identification Number PIN or the like. The full authentication level is configured such that standard normal authentication requirements credentials are required for the user to perform the function. The heightened authentication level may require the user to input additional personal information or answers to out of wallet challenge questions.

In further embodiments the apparatus includes a function level module that is stored in the memory and is executable by the processor . The function level module is configured to determine a level of functionality available to the user upon the user meeting the determined authentication requirements. The level of functionality defines functions available to the user within the service may be independent of the determination of authentication requirements. The level of functionality may define transactions or transaction amount limits that the user is authorized to conduct or information the user is authorized to access during the session.

At Event in response to receiving the request a determination is made as to the current physical i.e. geographic location of the user. The current physical location of the user may be determined by a location determining mechanism e.g. Global Positioning System GPS device or the like in the mobile communication device which sent the service access request or via wireless signals transmitted from the mobile communication device using triangulation methodology or the like.

At Event once the determination is made of the current physical location of the user a determination is made that the current location of the user is proximate to or within a predefined physical area having altered authentication requirements. Altered authentication requirements are one of increased authentication requirements credentials or decreased authentication requirements credentials in comparison to standard normal authentication requirements credentials.

At Event the altered authentication requirements credentials are identified. The authentication requirements credentials are identified by accessing a database that correlates the predetermined physical areas to the associated altered authentication requirements. Once identified the altered authentication requirements are presented to the user typically via display on the mobile communication device and the user provides the required altered authentication requirements as a means of accessing the service.

Thus systems apparatus methods and computer program products described above provide for determining a user s authentication requirements credentials for a specific network access session based on the current location of the user in comparison to predetermined boundaries of location that have altered authentication requirements i.e. increased or decreased authentication requirements credentials that differ from the standard authentication requirements . Both the entity providing the network service or the user may designate areas for altered authentication requirements credentials. The predetermined area may also coincide with a predetermined time e.g. time of year month day or the like in which the altered authentication requirements apply. Moreover the altered authentication requirements may be temporal for example the altered authentication requirements apply to a specific event occurring at a specified time at the designated location.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible.

Those skilled in the art may appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

