---

title: Cleaning blade, image forming apparatus, and process cartridge
abstract: A cleaning blade includes an elastic member configured to come into contact with a surface of a member to be cleaned and remove residual matter adhering to the surface of the member to be cleaned. The elastic member satisfies the following requirements a and b: a. The elastic member has a contact portion configured to come into contact with the surface of the member to be cleaned and the contact portion includes a modified layer that contains a cured product of an ultraviolet curable composition containing a (meth)acrylate compound; and b. A value obtained by normalizing a peak area ratio S/Sof a modified portion with a peak area ratio S′/S′ of a portion outside the modified layer is 1.5 or more and 10 or less where Sis a peak area value at 1162 cmand Sis a peak area value at 1533 cmobtained by infrared microspectrometry, and the modified portion is a region that extends 100 μm in a contact portion thickness inward direction from the contact portion on a plane that lies at an equal distance from two surfaces constituting the contact portion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09146524&OS=09146524&RS=09146524
owner: RICOH COMPANY, LTD.
number: 09146524
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140703
---
This patent application is based on and claims priority pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Japanese Patent Application No. 2013 148159 filed on Jul. 17 2013 in the Japan Patent Office the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to a cleaning blade that includes an elastic member that comes into contact with a surface of a member to be cleaned so as to remove residual matter adhering on the surface of the member to be cleaned.

In a typical electrophotographic image forming apparatus residual toner adhering to the surface of an image carrier after transfer of a toner image onto a recording medium or an intermediate transfer body during an image forming process is removed by cleaning means.

A cleaning blade is used as the cleaning means due to its simple structure and good cleaning performance. A typical cleaning blade includes an elastic member composed of polyurethane rubber or the like and a supporting member. A base end of the elastic member is supported by the supporting member and a contact portion tip ridge of the elastic member is pressed against the image carrier surface so as to block and scrape off the residual toner on the image carrier surface to carry out removal.

However as illustrated in a cleaning blade composed of polyurethane rubber is pulled in a direction in which an image carrier moves due to increased frictional force between the image carrier and the cleaning blade and a contact portion tip ridge of the cleaning blade is bent back as a result. Once cleaning is continued with the contact portion of the cleaning blade in a bent back state local friction X occurs in a tip surface of the cleaning blade at a position several micrometers distant from the contact portion as illustrated in . If cleaning is further continued under such a condition the local friction X is increased and as illustrated in the contact portion ultimately comes to have a missing part. Toner cannot be appropriately cleaned with a contact portion missing resulting in cleaning failure. In reference numeral denotes a lower surface of the cleaning blade.

 1 A cleaning blade includes an elastic member configured to come into contact with a surface of a member to be cleaned and remove residual matter adhering to the surface of the member to be cleaned the elastic member satisfying requirements a and b below 

a. The elastic member has a contact portion configured to come into contact with the surface of the member to be cleaned and the contact portion includes a modified layer that contains a cured product of an ultraviolet curable composition containing a meth acrylate compound and

b. A value obtained by normalizing a peak area ratio S Sof a modified portion with a peak area ratio S S of a portion outside the modified layer is 1.5 or more and 10 or less where Sis a peak area value at 1162 cmand Sis a peak area value at 1533 cmobtained by infrared microspectrometry and the modified portion is a region that extends 100 m in a contact portion thickness inward direction from the contact portion on a plane that lies at an equal distance from two surfaces constituting the contact portion.

The accompanying drawings are intended to depict example embodiments of the present invention and should not be interpreted to limit the scope thereof. The accompanying drawings are not to be considered as drawn to scale unless explicitly noted.

In order to reduce bending back of the contact portion tip ridge of the cleaning blade coming into contact with the image carrier surface an attempt has been made to increase the hardness of the contact portion so as to increase the resistance to deformation. For example proposals have been made in which a surface layer containing ultraviolet curable resin is formed in a contact portion of a cleaning blade or an elastic member so as to increase the hardness of the contact portion and prevent bending back and deformation of the contact portion.

However the ultraviolet curable resins used in these proposals have a high crosslinking density and thus curing shrinkage that occurs during curing is significant. There is a problem in that when a surface layer composed of such a resin is formed on the contact portion the surface layer may crack or detach.

A cleaning blade in which bending back of a contact portion of an elastic member that comes into contact with a surface of a member to be cleaned is reduced wear of the contact portion of the elastic member during use is less and a good cleaning property is maintained over a long period of time is desirable.

In view of the above one aspect of the present invention is to provide a cleaning blade in which bending back of a contact portion of an elastic member the contact portion coming into contact with a surface of a member to be cleaned is suppressed wear of the contact portion of the elastic member is less during use and good cleaning performance can be maintained for a long period of time.

A cleaning blade according to the present invention includes an elastic member configured to come into contact with a surface of a member to be cleaned and remove residual matter adhering to the surface of the member to be cleaned. The cleaning blade further includes a supporting member and if needed other members.

The cleaning blade preferably includes a supporting member and a plate shaped elastic member having one end connected to the supporting member and a free end portion of a particular length at the other end. The elastic member has a contact portion on the free end portion side and the elastic member is arranged so that the contact portion comes into contact with the surface of the member to be cleaned along the longitudinal direction.

The material shape structure size and the like of the member to be cleaned may be any and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of the shape of the member to be cleaned include a drum shape a belt shape a plate shape and a sheet shape. The size of the member to be cleaned is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose however the size is preferably about typical size.

The material of the member to be cleaned is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples thereof include metal plastic and ceramic materials.

The usage of the member to be cleaned is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. For example when the cleaning blade is used in an image forming apparatus the member to be cleaned is an image carrier.

The residual matter may be any matter suitable for the purpose adhering to the surface of the member to be cleaned and subject to removal with the cleaning blade. Examples of the residual matter include a toner a lubricant inorganic fine particles organic fine particles dirt dust and mixtures of these.

The shape size material etc. of the supporting member may be any and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of the shape of the supporting member include a plate shape a strip shape and a sheet shape. The size of the supporting member is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the size of the member to be cleaned.

Examples of the material for the supporting member include metal plastic and ceramic materials. From the viewpoint of strength a metal plate is preferable and a steel plate such as a stainless steel plate an aluminum plate and a phosphor bronze plate are particularly preferable.

The shape material size structure etc. of the elastic member are not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of the shape of the elastic member include a plate shape a strip shape and a sheet shape. The size of the elastic member is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the size of the member to be cleaned.

The material for the elastic member is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected depending on the purpose. Polyurethane rubber and polyurethane elastomers are preferable since high elasticity can be easily obtained.

The method for making the elastic member is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose.

For example an elastic member may be made by preparing a polyurethane prepolymer by using a polyol compound and a polyisocyanate compound adding a curing agent and if needed a curing catalyst to the polyurethane prepolymer to carry out crosslinking in a particular mold placing the resulting product in a furnace to carry out post crosslinking forming the resulting product into a sheet by centrifugal forming leaving and aging the resulting sheet at room temperature and cutting the resulting sheet into a plate of particular dimensions.

The polyol compound is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples thereof include high molecular weight polyols and low molecular weight polyols.

Examples of the high molecular weight polyols include a polyester polyol which is a condensate of an alkylene glycol and a fatty dibasic acid a polyester based polyol such as a polyester polyol of an alkylene glycol and adipic acid e.g. ethylene adipate ester polyol butylene adipate ester polyol hexylene adipate ester polyol ethylene propylene adipate ester polyol ethylene butylene adipate ester polyol and ethylene neopentylene adipate ester polyol a polycaprolactone based polyol such as polycaprolactone ester polyol obtained by ring open polymerization of caprolactone and a polyether based polyol such as poly oxytetramethylene glycol and poly oxypropylene glycol. These may be used alone or in combination.

Examples of the low molecular weight polyols include dihydric alcohols such as 1 4 butanediol ethylene glycol neopentyl glycol hydroquinone bis 2 hydroxyethyl ether 3 3 dichloro 4 4 diaminodiphenyl methane and 4 4 diaminodiphenyl methane and trihydric or higher alcohols such as 1 1 1 trimethylolpropane glycerin 1 2 6 hexanetriol butanetriol trimethylolethane 1 1 1 tris hydroxyethoxymethyl propane diglycerin and pentaerythritol. These may be used alone or in combination.

The polyisocyanate compound is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples thereof include methylene diphenyl diisocyanate MDI tolylene diisocyanate TDI xylylene diisocyanate XDI naphthylene 1 5 diisocyanate NDI tetramethylxylene diisocyanate TMXDI isophorone diisocyanate IPDI hydrogenated xylylene diisocyanate HXDI dicyclohexylmethane diisocyanate HMDI hexamethylene diisocyanate HDI dimer acid diisocyanate DDI norbornene diisocyanate NBDI and trimethyl hexamethylene diisocyanate TMDI . These may be used alone or in combination.

The curing catalyst is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples thereof include 2 methylimidazole and 1 2 dimethylimidazole.

The curing catalyst content is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The curing catalyst content is preferably 0.01 by mass to 0.5 by mass and more preferably 0.05 by mass to 0.3 by mass.

The JIS A hardness of the elastic member is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The JIS A hardness of the elastic member is preferably 60 or more and more preferably 65 to 80. At a JIS A hardness less than 60 it is difficult to obtain a blade linear pressure and the area of the contact portion contacting the image carrier is likely to increase possibly resulting in cleaning failure.

The elastic member is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. It is preferable to use a multilayered body formed by integrating two or more types of rubber with different JIS A hardnesses since both wear resistance and following property can be achieved.

The JIS A hardness of the elastic member can be measured by for example using a micro durometer MD 1 produced by KOBUNSHI KEIKI CO. LTD. 

The rebound resilience of the elastic member determined in accordance with JIS K 6255 standard is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The rebound resilience is preferably 35 or less at 23 C. and more preferably 20 to 30 at 23 C. At a rebound resilience exceeding 35 the elastic member of the cleaning blade exhibits stickiness and cleaning failure may result.

The rebound resilience of the elastic member can be measured by for example using a No. 221 resilience tester produced by Toyo Seiki Seisaku Sho Ltd. at 23 C. in accordance with JIS K 6255 standard.

The average thickness of the elastic member is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The average thickness is preferably 1.0 mm to 3.0 mm.

The elastic member has a contact portion that comes into contact with the surface of the member to be cleaned and the contact portion includes a modified layer that contains a cured product of an ultraviolet UV curable composition containing a meth acrylate compound. This means that the cured product of an ultraviolet UV curable composition containing a meth acrylate compound may be present in the interior of the contact portion as well as on the surface of the contact portion. In the case where a surface layer is formed the cured product of an ultraviolet UV curable composition containing a meth acrylate compound is contained in the interior of the contact portion.

The cured product of the UV curable composition may be present in a portion other than the contact portion of the elastic member so long as the cured product is contained at least in the contact portion of the elastic member.

As described above a value is obtained by normalizing a peak area ratio S Sof a modified portion with a peak area ratio S S of a portion outside the modified layer is in a particular range where Sis a peak area value at 1162 cmand Sis a peak area value at 1533 cmobtained by infrared microspectrometry . To be more specific the peak area at 1162 cmis due to urethane and the acryl compound used in the elastic member and the peak area at 1533 cmis due to urethane. Accordingly when the peak area ratio S Sis normalized by the peak area ratio S S of the portion outside the modified layer the acryl penetration amount can be standardized.

The sample used in the infrared microspectrometry measurement is obtained by preparing a section of the cleaning blade and placing the section onto a Si wafer. The infrared microspectrometry is preferably of a transmission mode or an ATR mode. The infrared microspectrometer may be FT IR 6200 spectrometer with IRT 7000 produced by JASCO Corporation.

The UV curable composition contains a meth acrylate compound which may be any compound having a methacrylate group or an acrylate group. A meth acrylate compound having a low molecular weight readily penetrates the contact portion and thus modification can be carried out efficiently. Thus a meth acrylate compound having a molecular weight of 100 to 1500 is preferable and a meth acrylate compound having a molecular weight of 500 or less is more preferable.

The meth acrylate compound having a molecular weight of 100 to 1500 is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose.

Examples of the meth acrylate compound include dipentaerythritol hexa meth acrylate pentaerythritol tetra meth acrylate pentaerythritol tri meth acrylate pentaerythritol ethoxy tetra meth acrylate trimethylolpropane tri meth acrylate trimethylolpropane ethoxy tri meth acrylate 1 6 hexanediol di meth acrylate ethoxylated bisphenol A di meth acrylate propoxylated ethoxylated bisphenol A di meth acrylate 1 4 butanediol di meth acrylate 1 5 pentanediol di meth acrylate 1 6 hexanediol di meth acrylate 1 7 heptanediol di meth acrylate 1 8 octanediol di meth acrylate 1 9 nonanediol di meth acrylate 1 10 decanediol di meth acrylate 1 11 undecanediol di meth acrylate 1 18 octadecanediol di meth acrylate glycerin propoxy tri meth acrylate dipropylene glycol di meth acrylate dipropylene glycol di meth acrylate PO modified neopentyl glycol di meth acrylate PEG600 di meth acrylate PEG400 di meth acrylate PEG200 di meth acrylate neopentyl glycol hydroxypivalic acid ester di meth acrylate octyl decyl meth acrylate isobornyl meth acrylate ethoxylated phenyl meth acrylate and 9 9 bis 4 2 meth acryloyloxyethoxy phenyl fluorenone. These may be used alone or in combination. Among these compounds having pentaerythritol triacrylate structures having 3 to 6 functional groups are preferable.

Examples of the compounds having pentaerythritol triacrylate structures having 3 to 6 functional groups include pentaerythritol triacrylate and dipentaerythritol hexaacrylate.

A meth acrylate compound having an alicyclic structure having 6 or more carbon atoms in a molecule has a bulky special alicyclic structure in its molecule thus a meth acrylate compound having a small number of functional groups and a low molecular weight can be used. Thus the compound easily penetrates the contact portion of the elastic member and the hardness of the contact portion can be efficiently improved. In the case where a surface layer is formed on the contact portion cracking and separation of the surface layer can be prevented.

The number of carbon atoms in the alicyclic structure of the meth acrylate compound having an alicyclic structure having 6 or more carbon atoms in a molecule is preferably 6 to 12 and more preferably 8 to 10. When the number of carbon atoms is 6 or more the hardness of the contact portion is sufficiently high and when the number of carbon atoms is 12 or less the possibility of steric hindrance is reduced.

The number of functional groups in the meth acrylate compound having an alicyclic structure having 6 or more carbon atoms in a molecule is preferably 2 to 6 and more preferably 2 to 4. Since the number of functional groups is 2 or more the hardness of the contact portion is sufficiently high and since the number of functional groups is 6 or less the possibility of steric hindrance is reduced.

The molecular weight of the meth acrylate compound having an alicyclic structure having 6 or more carbon atoms in a molecule is preferably 500 or less. When the molecular weight is 500 or less the size of the molecule is small the compound can easily penetrate the elastic member and the hardness can be easily increased.

The meth acrylate compound having an alicyclic structure having 6 or more carbon atoms in a molecule is preferably at least one selected from a meth acrylate compound having a tricyclodecane structure and a meth acrylate compound having an adamantane structure since deficiency of crosslinking points can be compensated due to the special cyclic structure despite a small number of functional groups.

The meth acrylate compound having a tricyclodecane structure is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples thereof include tricyclodecane dimethanol diacrylate and tricyclodecane dimethanol dimethacrylate.

The meth acrylate compound having a tricyclodecane structure may be synthesized as needed and used or may be purchased. An example of the commercially available product thereof is A DCP trade name produced by Shin Nakamura Chemical Co. Ltd.

The meth acrylate compound having an adamantane structure is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples thereof include 1 3 adamantane dimethanol diacrylate 1 3 adamantane dimethanol dimethacrylate 1 3 5 adamantane trimethanol triacrylate and 1 3 5 adamantane trimethanol trimethacrylate.

The meth acrylate compound having an adamantane structure may be synthesized as needed and used or purchased. Examples of the commercially available product thereof include X DA trade name produced by Idemitsu Kosan Co. Ltd. X A 201 trade name produced by Idemitsu Kosan Co. Ltd. and ADTM trade name produced by Mitsubishi Gas Chemical Company Inc. .

The content of the meth acrylate having an alicyclic structure having 6 or more carbon atoms in a molecule is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The content relative to the UV curable composition is preferably 20 by mass to 100 by mass and more preferably 50 by mass to 100 by mass. When the content is 20 by mass or more high hardness can be retained due to the special cyclic structure.

The fact that the meth acrylate compound having an alicyclic group having 6 or more carbon atoms in a molecule in particular preferably a meth acrylate compound having a tricyclodecane structure or a meth acrylate compound having an adamantane structure is contained in the contact portion of the elastic member that comes into contact with the surface of the member to be cleaned can be confirmed by infrared microspectrometry or liquid chromatography.

Other components are not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of other components include a photopolymerization initiator a polymerization inhibitor and a diluent.

The photopolymerization initiator may be any compound that generates active species such as radicals or cations by light energy and initiates polymerization and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of the photopolymerization initiator include a photoradical polymerization initiator and a photocation polymerization initiator. Among these a photoradical polymerization initiator is particularly preferable.

Examples of the photoradical polymerization initiator include aromatic ketones acylphosphine oxide compounds aromatic onium salt compounds organic peroxides thio compounds thioxanthone compounds thiophenyl group containing compounds etc. hexaaryl biimidazole compounds ketoxime ester compounds borate compounds azinium compounds metallocene compounds active ester compounds compounds having carbon halogen bonds and alkyl amine compounds.

The photoradical polymerization initiator is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples thereof include acetophenone acetophenone benzyl ketal 1 hydroxycyclohexyl phenyl ketone 2 2 dimethoxy 2 phenyl acetophenone xanthone fluorenone benzaldehyde fluorene anthraquinone triphenylamine carbazole 3 methylacetophenone 4 chlorobenzophenone 4 4 dimethoxybenzophenone 4 4 diaminobenzophenone Michler s ketone benzoin propyl ether benzoin ethyl ether benzyl dimethyl ketal 1 4 isopropylphenyl 2 hydroxy 2 methylpropan 1 one 2 hydroxy 2 methyl 1 phenylpropan 1 one thioxanthone diethylthioxanthone 2 isopropylthioxanthone 2 chlorothioxanthone 2 methyl 1 4 methylthio phenyl 2 morpholino propan 1 one bis 2 4 6 trimethylbenzoyl phenyl phosphine oxide 2 4 6 trimethylbenzoyl diphenyl phosphine oxide 2 4 diethylthioxanthone and bis 2 6 dimethoxybenzoyl 2 4 4 trimethylpentylphosphine oxide. These may be used alone or in combination.

A commercially available product may be used as the photoradical polymerization initiator. Examples of the commercially available product include IRGACURE 651 IRGACURE 184 DAROCUR 1173 IRGACURE 2959 IRGACURE 127 IRGACURE 907 IRGACURE 369 IRGACURE 379 DAROCUR TPO IRGACURE 819 IRGACURE 784 IRGACURE OXE 01 IRGACURE OXE 02 and IRGACURE 754 all products available from Ciba Specialty Chemicals Speedcure TPO produced by Lambson KAYACURE DETX S produced by Nippon Kayaku Co. Ltd. Lucirin TPO LR8893 and LR8970 all products available from BASF and EBECRYL P36 produced by UCB . These can be used alone or in combination.

The content of the photopolymerization initiator is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The content is preferably 1 by mass to 20 by mass relative to the UV curable composition.

The polymerization inhibitor is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of the polymerization inhibitor include phenolic compounds such as p methoxy phenol cresol t butyl catechol di t butyl para cresol hydroquinone monomethyl ether naphthol 3 5 di t butyl 4 hydroxytoluene 2 2 methylene bis 4 methyl 6 t butylphenol 2 2 methylene bis 4 ethyl 6 butylphenol and 4 4 thiobis 3 methyl 6 t butylphenol quinone compounds such as p benzoquinone anthraquinone naphthoquinone phenanthraquinone p xyloquinone p toluquinone 2 6 dichloroquinone 2 5 diphenyl p benzoquinone 2 5 diacetoxy p benzoquinone 2 5 dicaproxy p benzoquinone 2 5 diacyloxy p benzoquinone hydroquinone 2 5 di butylhydroquinone mono t butylhydroquinone monomethyl hydroquinone and 2 5 di t amylhydroquinone amine compounds such as phenyl naphthylamine p benzylaminophenol di naphthylparaphenylenediamine dibenzylhydroxylamine phenylhydroxylamine and diethylhydroxylamine nitro compounds such as dinitrobenzene trinitrotoluene and picric acid oxime compounds such as quinone dioxime and cyclohexanone oxime and sulfur compounds such as phenothiazine. These may be used alone or in combination.

The diluent is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of the diluent include hydrocarbon based solvents such as toluene and xylene ester based solvents such as ethyl acetate n butyl acetate methyl cellosolve acetate and propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate ketone based solvents such as methyl ethyl ketone methyl isobutyl ketone diisobutyl ketone cyclohexanone and cyclopentanone ether based solvents such as ethylene glycol monomethyl ether ethylene glycol monoethyl ether and propylene glycol monomethyl ether and alcohol based solvents such as ethanol propanol 1 butanol isopropyl alcohol and isobutyl alcohol. These may be used alone or in combination.

The method for constructing a modified layer of an UV curable composition containing a meth acrylate compound in the contact portion of the elastic member is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of the method include the followings 

 1 A method that includes allowing the UV curable composition to penetrate the contact portion of the elastic member by applying the composition with a brush or through dip coating or the like and then curing the UV curable composition by applying UV light 2 A method that includes allowing the UV curable composition to penetrate the contact portion of the elastic member by applying the composition with a brush or through dip coating or the like forming a surface layer by spraying an UV curable composition onto the contact portion and performing curing under irradiation with UV light 3 A method that includes allowing the UV curable composition to penetrate the contact portion of the elastic member by applying the composition with a brush or through dip coating or the like curing the UV curable composition by applying UV light and forming a surface layer by spraying an UV curable composition onto the contact portion.

UV irradiation conditions are not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The accumulated UV dose is preferably 500 mJ cmto 5 000 mJ cm .

The contact portion of the elastic member includes a modified layer that contains a cured product of an ultraviolet curable composition containing a meth acrylate compound. A value obtained by normalizing a peak area ratio S Sof a modified portion with a peak area ratio S S of a portion outside the modified layer is 1.5 or more and 10 or less where Sis a peak area value at 1162 cm and Sis a peak area value at 1533 cmobtained by infrared microspectrometry and the modified portion is a region that extends 100 m in a contact portion thickness inward direction from the contact portion on a plane that lies at an equal distance from two surfaces constituting the contact portion.

According to this structure the contact portion of the elastic member exhibits high hardness and curing and deformation of the contact portion can be suppressed. Moreover since the composition penetrates inside the contact portion curing and deformation can be suppressed even when the interior has become exposed by wear of the contact portion with time. The detailed account is given below.

According to the cleaning blade of the present invention bending back of a contact portion of the elastic member that comes into contact with a surface of a member to be cleaned can be suppressed the wear of the contact portion of the elastic member during use is reduced and a good cleaning property can be maintained over a long period of time. Accordingly the cleaning blade of the present invention can be used in a wide variety of fields but is particularly suitable for use in an image forming apparatus an image forming method and a process cartridge of the present invention described below.

An image forming apparatus according to the present invention includes at least an image carrier charging means exposing means developing means transferring means fixing means and cleaning means and if needed other means appropriately selected. The charging means and the exposing means together are sometimes referred to as electrostatic latent image forming means.

An image forming method used in the present invention includes at least a charging step an exposing step a developing step a transferring step a fixing step and a cleaning step and if needed other steps appropriately selected. The charging step and the exposing step together are sometimes referred to as an electrostatic latent image forming step.

The image forming method used in the present invention can be appropriately implemented by using the image forming apparatus of the present invention. The charging step can be performed by using the charging means the exposing step can be performed by using the exposing means the developing step can be performed by the developing means the transferring step can be performed by using the transferring means the fixing step can be performed by using the fixing means and the cleaning step can be performed by using the cleaning means. Other steps can be performed by using other means.

The material shape structure size etc. of the image carrier hereinafter may be referred to as electrophotographic photosensitive member or photosensitive member are not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected from those known in the art. Examples of the shape of the image carrier include a drum shape and a belt shape. Examples of the material of the image carrier include inorganic photoconductors such as amorphous silicon and selenium and organic photoconductors OPC such as polysilane and phthalopolymethine.

The charging step is a step of charging a surface of the image carrier and is performed by using charging means.

Charging is performed by for example applying a voltage onto the surface of the image carrier by using the charging means.

The charging means is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of the charging means include known contact chargers equipped with conductive or semiconductive rollers brushes films rubber blades and the like and non contact chargers that use corona discharge such as corotron scorotron and the like.

The charging means may be a roller a magnetic brush or a fur brush or may take any other form and can be selected according to the specifications and mode of the electrophotographic image forming apparatus. In the case where a magnetic brush is used the magnetic brush is constituted by for example any of various types of ferrite particles such as Zn Cu ferrite as charging means a nonmagnetic conductive sleeve for supporting the ferrite particles and a magnet roll included in the conductive sleeve. Alternatively in the case where a brush is used a fur that has been made conductive by using carbon copper sulfide metal or a metal oxide is used as the material for the fur brush and a charger is formed by wrapping or bonding the fur around a metal or other conductive core.

The charger is not limited to the contact charger described above but a contact charger is advantageous in that an image forming apparatus can be obtained in which the amount of ozone generated from the charger is decreased.

The charger is preferably arranged in a contact or noncontact manner with respect to the image carrier and preferably charges the surface of the image carrier by simultaneous imposition of DC and AC voltages.

Alternatively the charger is preferably a charging roller arranged in a noncontact manner near an image carrier that has a gap tape and the charger preferably charges the surface of the image carrier by simultaneously imposing DC and AC voltages to the charging roller.

The exposing step is a step of exposing the charged surface of the image carrier and is performed by using the exposing means.

For example the exposure can be performed by illuminating the surface of the image carrier such that an electrostatic latent image is formed on the surface of the image carrier.

Optical systems used in the exposure can be roughly categorized into analog optical systems and digital optical systems. In the analog optical systems the original is directly projected onto the image carrier. In the digital optical systems image information is supplied as an electric signal and the electric signal is converted into an optical signal to expose the electrophotographic photosensitive member and form an electrostatic latent image.

The exposing means is not particularly limited as long as the image carrier surface charged by the charging means can be illuminated with light so as to form an electrostatic latent image and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of the exposing means include various exposure devices such as copying optical systems rod lens array systems laser optical systems liquid crystal shutter optical systems and LED optical systems.

In the present invention a back illumination method for performing exposure from the back surface of the image carrier can be used to form an electrostatic latent image.

The developing step is a step of forming a visible image by developing the electrostatic latent image with the toner.

Formation of the visible image can be carried out by developing the electrostatic latent image with the toner and by using the developing means.

The developing means may be any means capable of developing with the toner and may be appropriately selected from those known in the art. An example of a preferable developing means is a device that at least includes a developing device that can store the toner and supply the toner to the electrostatic latent image in a contact or noncontact manner.

The developing device may be of a dry development type or a wet development type and may be of a single color type or a multicolor type. An example of the developing device is a device that includes a stirrer that charges the toner by friction caused by stirring and a rotatable magnet roller.

In the developing device for example the toner and if needed a carrier are mixed and stirred and the toner is charged by the friction generated by the stirring and forms chains retained on the surface of the rotating magnet roller to form a magnetic brush. Since the magnet roller is disposed near the image carrier part of the toner constituting the magnetic brush formed on the surface of the magnet roller moves to the surface of the image carrier by electrical attraction. Consequently the electrostatic latent image is developed with the toner and a visible image is formed by the toner on the surface of the image carrier.

The toner contained in the developing device may be a developing agent that contains the toner. The developing agent may be a one component developing agent or a two component developing agent.

The toner base particles contain at least a binder resin and a coloring agent and if needed a releasing agent a charge controller and other components.

The binder resin is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of the binder resin include homopolymers of styrene or its substitute such as polystyrene resin and polyvinyl toluene resin a styrene p chlorostyrene copolymer a styrene propylene copolymer a styrene vinyl toluene copolymer a styrene methyl acrylate copolymer a styrene ethyl acrylate copolymer a styrene butyl acrylate copolymer a styrene methyl methacrylate copolymer a styrene ethyl methacrylate copolymer a styrene butyl methacrylate copolymer a styrene methyl chloromethacrylate copolymer a styrene acrylonitrile copolymer a styrene vinyl methyl ether copolymer a styrene vinyl methyl ketone copolymer a styrene butadiene copolymer a styrene isoprene copolymer a styrene maleic acid copolymer a styrene maleic acid ester copolymer polymethyl methacrylate polybutyl methacrylate polyvinyl chloride resin polyvinyl acetate resin polyethylene resin polypropylene resin polyester resin polyurethane resin epoxy resin polyvinyl butyral resin polyacrylic acid resin rosin modified rosin terpene resin phenolic resin aliphatic hydrocarbons aromatic petroleum resin chlorinated paraffin and paraffin wax. These may be used alone or in combination. Among these polyester resin is particularly preferable since polyester resin can decrease the melt viscosity while maintaining the stability of the toner during storage compared to styrene based resin and acryl based resin.

The polyester resin can be obtained by for example polycondensation reaction of an alcohol component and a carboxylic acid component.

The alcohol component is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose.

Examples of the alcohol component include diols such as polyethylene glycol diethylene glycol triethylene glycol 1 2 propylene glycol 1 3 propylene glycol 1 4 propylene glycol neopentyl glycol and 1 4 butenediol etherified bisphenols such as 1 4 bis hydroxymethyl cyclohexane bisphenol A hydrogenated bisphenol A polyoxyethylenated bisphenol A and polyoxypropylenated bisphenol A dihydric alcohol units of the aforementioned substituted with saturated or unsaturated hydrocarbon groups with 3 to 22 carbon atoms other dihydric alcohol units and trihydric or higher alcohol monomers such as sorbitol 1 2 3 6 hexanetetrol 1 4 sorbitan pentaerythritol dipentaerythritol tripentaerythritol sucrose 1 2 4 butanetriol 1 2 5 pentanetriol glycerol 2 methylpropanetriol 2 methyl 1 2 4 butanetriol trimethylolethane trimethylolpropane and 1 3 5 trihydroxymethylbenzene.

The carboxylic acid component is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose.

Examples of the carboxylic acid component include monocarboxylic acids such as palmatic acid stearic acid and oleic acid maleic acid fumaric acid mesaconic acid citraconic acid terephthalic acid cyclohexane dicarboxylic acid succinic acid adipic acid sebacic acid malonic acid divalent organic acid monomers of these substituted with saturated or unsaturated hydrocarbon groups with 3 to 22 carbon atoms acid anhydrides of these and dimer acids from lower alkyl esters and linoleic acid and 1 2 4 benzenetricarboxylic acid 1 2 5 benzenetricarboxylic acid 2 5 7 naphthalenetricarboxylic acid 1 2 4 naphthalenetricarboxylic acid 1 2 4 butanetricarboxylic acid 1 2 5 hexanetricarboxylic acid 3 3 dicarboxymethyl butanoic acid tetracarboxymethylmethane 1 2 7 8 octanetetracarboxylic acid empol trimer acids trivalent or higher carboxylic acid monomers such as anhydrides of the aforementioned acids.

The coloring agent is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected from known dyes and pigments according to the purpose.

Examples of the coloring agent include carbon black nigrosine dye iron black Naphthol Yellow S Hansa Yellow 10G 5G G cadmium yellow yellow iron oxide yellow ocher titanium yellow polyazo yellow oil yellow Hansa Yellow GR A RN R Pigment Yellow L Benzidine Yellow G GR Permanent Yellow NCG Vulcan Fast Yellow 5G R Tartrazine lake Quinoline Yellow lake Anthrazane Yellow BGL isoindolinone yellow red iron oxide red lead lead vermillion cadmium red cadmium mercury red antimony vermillion Permanent Red 4R Para Red Fire Red p chloro o nitroaniline red Lithol Fast Scarlet G Brilliant Fast Scarlet Brilliant Carmine BS Permanent Red F2R F4R FRL FRLL F4RH Fast Scarlet VD Vulcan Fast Rubine B Brilliant Scarlet G Lithol Rubine GX Permanent Red F5R Brilliant Carmine 6B Pigment Scarlet 3B Bordeaux 5B Toluidine Maroon Permanent Bordeaux F2K Helio Bordeaux BL Bordeaux 10B Bon Maroon Light Bon Maroon Medium Eosine Lake Rhodamine Lake B Rhodamine Lake Y Alizarin Lake Thioindigo Red B Thioindigo Maroon Oil Red Quinacridone Red Pyrazolone Red Polyazo Red Chrome Vermillion Benzidine Orange Perinone Orange Oil Orange Cobalt Blue Cerulean Blue Alkali Blue Lake Peacock Blue Lake Victoria Blue lake metal free Phthalocyanine Blue Phthalocyanine Blue Fast Sky Blue Indanthrene Blue RS BC indigo ultramarine blue Prussian blue anthraquinone blue Fast Violet B Methyl Violet Lake Cobalt Violet Manganese Violet Dioxane Violet Anthraquinone Violet Chrome Green Zinc Green chromium oxide viridian emerald green Pigment Green B Naphthol Green B Green Gold Acid Green lake Malachite Green Lake Phthalocyanine Green Anthraquinone Green titanium oxide zinc oxide and lithopone. These may be used alone or in combination.

The content of the coloring agent in the toner is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The content is preferably 1 by mass to 15 by mass and more preferably 3 by mass to 10 by mass.

The coloring agent may be combined with a resin to form a master batch. The resin is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected from those known in the art according to the purpose. Examples of the resin include polymers of substituted or unsubstituted styrene styrene based copolymers polymethyl methacrylate resin polybutyl methacrylate reins polyvinyl chloride resin polyvinyl acetate resin polyethylene resin polypropylene resin polyester resin epoxy resin epoxypolyol resin polyurethane resin polyamide resin polyvinyl butyral resin polyacrylic acid resin rosin modified rosin terpene resin aliphatic hydrocarbon resin alicyclic hydrocarbon resin aromatic petroleum resin chlorinated paraffin and paraffin. These may be used alone or in combination.

The releasing agent is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of the releasing agent include waxes.

Examples of the waxes include carbonyl group containing wax polyolefin wax and long chain hydrocarbons. These can be used alone or in combination. Among these carbonyl group containing wax is preferable.

Examples of the carbonyl group containing wax include polyalkanoic acid ester polyalkanol ester polyalkanoic acid amide polyalkyl amide and dialkyl ketone. Examples of the polyalkanoic acid ester include carnauba wax montane wax trimethylol propane tribehenate pentaerythritol tetrabehenate pentaerythritol diacetate dibehenate glycerin tribehenate and 1 18 octadecanediol distearate. Examples of the polyalkanol ester include tristearyl trimellitate and distearyl maleate. An example of the polyalkanoic acid amide is dibehenyl amide. An example of the polyalkyl amide is trimellitic acid tristearylamide. An example of the dialkyl ketone is distearyl ketone. Among these carbonyl group containing waxes polyalkanoic acid ester is particularly preferable.

The content of the releasing agent in the toner is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The content is preferably 5 by mass to 15 by mass.

The charge controller is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of the charge controller include nigrosin based dyes triphenylmethane based dyes chromium containing metal complex dyes molybdic acid chelate pigments rhodamine based dyes alkoxy based amine quaternary ammonium salts including fluorine modified quaternary ammonium salts alkyl amide elemental phosphorus phosphorus compounds elemental tungsten tungsten compounds fluorine based activators salicylic acid metal salts and metal salts of salicylic acid derivatives.

The content of the charge controller is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The content is preferably 0.1 parts by mass to 10 parts by mass and more preferably 0.2 parts by mass to 5 parts by mass per 100 parts by mass of the toner.

The external additive may be any material containing at least silica particles and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of the external additive include inorganic particles such as silica titanium oxide alumina silicon carbide silicon nitride and boron nitride and resin particles such as polymethyl methacrylate particles and polystyrene particles having an average particle size of 0.05 m to 1 m obtained by a soap free emulsion polymerization method. These may be used alone or in combination. Among these silica having hydrophobized surfaces is particularly preferable.

An example of the silica is silicone treated silica. Silicone treated silica is silica surface treated hydrophobized with silicone oil.

The method of the surface treatment is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose.

Examples of the silicone oil include dimethyl silicone oil methyl hydrogen silicone oil and methyl phenyl silicone oil.

The silicone treated silica may be a commercially available product. Examples of the commercially available products include RY200 R2T200S NY50 and RY50 all available from Nippon Aerosil Co. Ltd. .

Other components contained in the toner are not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of other components include a flow improver a cleaning property improver a magnetic material and a metal soap.

The flow improver is used in the surface treatment to enhance the hydrophobicity so that the flowing properties and charging properties are prevented from degrading even at high humidity. Examples of the flow improver include a silane coupling agent a silylating agent a silane coupling agent containing an alkyl fluoride group an organic titanate based coupling agent an aluminum based coupling agent silicone oil and modified silicone oil.

The cleaning property improver is added to the toner to facilitate removal of the toner remaining on the image carrier or the intermediate transfer body after the transfer. Examples of the cleaning property improver include fatty acid metal salts such as zinc stearate calcium stearate and stearic acid and polymer fine particles produced by soap free emulsion polymerization such as polymethyl methacrylate fine particles and polystyrene fine particles. The polymer fine particles preferably have a narrow particle size distribution and preferably have a volume average particle diameter of 0.01 m to 1 m.

The magnetic material is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of the magnetic material include iron powder magnetite and ferrite. From the viewpoint of color tone a white magnetic material is preferable.

The method for making toner is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected from among the known methods for making toners according to the purpose. Examples of the method include a kneading and pulverizing method a polymerization method a solution suspension method and an atomizing method. Among these a polymerization method such as a suspension polymerization method an emulsion polymerization method or a dispersion polymerization method is preferable since the toner can be made small and highly circular and the image quality can be improved.

The kneading and pulverizing method includes melt kneading a toner material containing at least a binder resin and a coloring agent pulverizing the resulting kneaded product and classifying the pulverized product to make base particles of the toner.

In the melt kneading process described above the toner material is prepared by mixing and the resulting mixture is placed in a melt kneader to perform melt kneading. As a melt kneader for example a single or twin screw continuous kneader or a batch kneader equipped with a roll mill can be used. Examples of the kneader include a KTK type twin screw extruder produced by Kobe Steel Ltd. a TEM type extruder produced by Toshiba Machine Co. Ltd. a twin screw extruder produced by KCK a PCM type twin screw extruder produced by Ikegai Ironworks Corporation and a co kneader produced by Buss AG. In particular the melt kneading is preferably performed under appropriate conditions that do not cause breaking of molecular chains in the binder resin. The melt kneading temperature is determined with respect to the softening point of the binder resin. If the melt kneading temperature is excessively higher than the softening point significant breaking of molecular chains occurs and if the melt kneading temperature is excessively lower than the softening point dispersing may not proceed smoothly.

In the pulverizing process the kneaded product obtained by the melt kneading is pulverized. The kneaded product is preferably first roughly pulverized and then finely pulverized. Examples of preferable methods for pulverizing the kneaded product include a process of causing the kneaded product to collide with a collision plate in a jet stream a process of causing particles of the kneaded product to collide with one another in a jet stream and a process of pulverizing the kneaded product in a narrow gap between a stator and a mechanically rotated rotor.

In the classifying process the pulverized product obtained by pulverizing is classified into particles of particular particle diameters. Classifying can be performed by using a cyclone a decanter a centrifugal separator or the like by removing fine particles.

Upon completion of pulverizing and classifying the pulverized product is further classified in air stream through centrifugal force etc. so as to make toner base particles having a particular particle diameter.

Next an external additive is externally added to the toner base particles. The toner base particles and the external additive are mixed with each other and stirred in a mixer so that the external additive coats the surfaces of the toner base particles while being disintegrated. It is important that the external additive such as silica particles be uniformly and strongly adhered to the toner base particles from the viewpoint of durability.

A toner may be made by a polymerization method as follows. First a toner material containing a coloring agent and a modified polyester based resin that can form urea or urethane bonds is dissolved and dispersed in an organic solvent. The resulting solution or dispersion is then dispersed in an aqueous medium to conduct polyaddition reaction the solvent is removed from the resulting dispersion and the residue is washed to obtain a toner.

Examples of the modified polyester based resin that can form urea or urethane bonds include isocyanate group containing polyester prepolymers obtained by reacting polyvalent isocyanate compounds PIC with carboxyl groups hydroxyl groups etc. at the polyester termini. A modified polyester resin obtained by crosslinking and or elongation of molecular chains caused by the reaction between the polyester prepolymer and an amine can improve a hot offset property while maintaining low temperature fixability.

Examples of the polyvalent isocyanate compounds PIC include fatty polyvalent isocyanates e.g. tetramethylene diisocyanate hexamethylene diisocyanate and 2 6 diisocyanatomethyl caproate alicyclic polyisocyanates e.g. isophorone diisocyanate and cyclohexyl methane diisocyanate aromatic diisocyanates e.g. tolylene diisocyanate and diphenyl methane diisocyanate aromatic aliphatic diisocyanates e.g. tetramethylxylylene diisocyanate isocyanates and the polyisocyanates mentioned above blocked with a phenol derivative oxime caprolactam or the like. These may be used alone or in combination.

The ratio of the polyvalent isocyanate compound PIC is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The equivalent ratio of the isocyanate groups NCO to the hydroxyl groups OH of the hydroxyl group containing polyester NCO OH is preferably 5 1 to 1 1 more preferably 4 1 to 1.2 1 and most preferably 2.5 1 to 1.5 1.

The number of isocyanate groups contained in one molecule of an isocyanate group containing polyester prepolymer A is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The number of isocyanate groups is preferably 1 or more more preferably 1.5 to 3 on average and most preferably 1.8 to 2.5 on average.

Examples of the amine B to be reacted with the polyester prepolymer include a divalent amine compound B1 a trivalent or higher amine compound B2 an amino alcohol B3 an amino mercaptan B4 an amino acid B5 and a compound B6 which is any of B1 to B5 but with blocked amino groups.

Examples of the divalent amine compound B1 include aromatic diamines e.g. phenylene diamine diethyl toluene diamine 4 4 diaminodiphenylmethane etc. alicyclic diamines e.g. 4 4 diamino 3 3 dimethyldicyclohexylmethane diaminecyclohexane and isophoronediamine and fatty diamines e.g. ethylene diamine tetramethylene diamine and hexamethylene diamine .

Examples of the trivalent or higher amine compound B2 include diethylenetriamine and triethylenetetramine.

Examples of the compound B6 which is any one of B1 to B5 above but with blocked amino groups include ketimine compounds and oxazolidine compounds obtained from ketones e.g. acetone methyl ethyl ketone and methyl isobutyl ketone and amines of B1 to B5. Among the amines B B1 and a mixture of B1 and a small amount of B2 are particularly preferable.

The ratio of the amine B is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The equivalent ratio of the isocyanate groups NCO in the isocyanate group containing polyester prepolymer A to the amino groups NHx in the amine B NCO NHx is preferably 1 2 to 2 1 more preferably 1.5 1 to 1 1.5 and most preferably 1.2 1 to 1 1.2.

According to the method for making a toner by a polymerization method described above a small diameter spherical toner can be manufactured at low cost and with less impact on the environment.

A disperser used for dispersing is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of the disperser include a low speed shear type disperser a high speed shear type disperser a friction type disperser a high pressure jet type disperse and an ultrasonic disperser.

Among these a high speed shear type disperser is preferable since the particle size of the dispersed bodies oil droplets can be controlled to 2 m to 20 m.

The conditions such as the number of rotations dispersing time and dispersing temperature of the high speed shear type disperser may be appropriately selected according to the purpose.

The number of rotations is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The number of rotation is preferably 1 000 rpm to 30 000 rpm and more preferably 5 000 rpm to 20 000 rpm.

The dispersing time is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. In a batch method the dispersing time is preferably 0.1 to 5 minutes.

The dispersing temperature is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The dispersing temperature under pressure is preferably 0 C. to 150 C. and more preferably 40 C. to 98 C. In general the higher the dispersing temperature the easier the dispersing operation.

The amount of the aqueous medium used for dispersing the toner material in the aqueous medium is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The amount of the aqueous medium used is preferably 50 parts by mass to 2 000 parts by mass and more preferably 100 parts by mass to 1 000 parts by mass relative to 100 parts by mass of the toner material.

The method for removing the organic solvent from the dispersion is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. For example the whole reaction system may be slowly heated to evaporate the organic solvent in the oil droplets or the dispersion may be sprayed in a dry atmosphere so as to remove the organic solvent in the oil droplets.

Once the organic solvent is removed toner base particles are formed. The toner base particles may be washed dried etc. and further classified for example. The classifying may be performed by removing fine particles in liquid using a cyclone a decanter or a centrifugal separator or by conducting classification after drying.

The resulting toner base particles may be mixed with the external additive and if needed particles such as a charge controller. During mixing mechanical impact may be applied to suppress detachment of the particles such as the external additive from the surfaces of the toner base particles.

The method for applying mechanical impact is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. For example impact may be applied to the mixture by using a blade rotating at high speed or the mixture may be placed in a high speed air stream to accelerate particles and cause the particles to collide with each other or with a collision plate.

The device used in this method is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose.

Examples of the device include Angmill produced by Hosokawa Micron Corporation I type mill produced by Nippon Pneumatic Mfg. Co. Ltd. modified to decrease the pulverizing air pressure Hybridization System produced by Nara Machinery Co. Ltd. Criptron System produced by Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd. and an automatic mortar.

The average circularity of the toner is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The average circularity is preferably 0.97 or more and more preferably 0.97 to 0.98. At an average circularity less than 0.97 a satisfactory transfer property and or a high quality image free of scattering may not always be obtained.

The average circularity of the toner can be measured with for example a flow particle image analyzer FPIA 1000 produced by Sysmex Corporation.

The volume average particle diameter of the toner is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The volume average particle diameter is preferably 5.5 m or less.

The ratio Dv Dn of the volume average particle diameter Dv to the number average particle diameter Dn is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The ratio Dv Dn is preferably 1.00 to 1.40. The closer the ratio Dv Dn to 1.00 the sharper the particle diameter distribution. A toner that has a small particle diameter and a narrow particle diameter distribution achieves a uniform charge amount distribution and a high quality image with less background fogging can be obtained. Moreover in an electrostatic transfer system the transfer ratio can be increased.

The volume average particle diameter and the particle size distribution of the toner can be measured by for example a Coulter counter method. Examples of the device used for measuring the particle size distribution of the toner particles by the Coulter counter method include Coulter Counter TA II and Coulter Multisizer II both available from Coulter Corporation .

The toner may be mixed with a magnetic carrier and used as a two component developing agent. The mass ratio of the toner to the carrier in the two component developing agent is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Preferably 1 to 10 parts by mass of the toner is contained per 100 parts of the carrier.

Examples of the magnetic carrier include iron powder having a particle diameter of about 20 m to 200 m ferrite powder magnetite powder and a magnetic resin carrier.

The coating resin is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of the coating resin include urea formaldehyde resin melamine resin benzoguanamine resin urea resin polyamide resin epoxy resin polyvinyl and polyvinylidene based resin acrylic resin polymethyl methacrylate resin polyacrylonitrile resin polyvinyl acetate resin polyvinyl alcohol resin polyvinyl butyral resin polystyrene resin styrene acryl copolymer resin halogenated olefin resin such as polyvinyl chloride resin polyester based resin such as polyethylene terephthalate resin and polybutylene terephthalate resin polycarbonate based resin polyethylene resin polyvinyl fluoride resin polyvinylidene fluoride resin polytrifluoroethylene resin polyhexafluoropropylene resin a copolymer of vinylidene fluoride and an acrylic monomer a copolymer of vinylidene fluoride and vinyl fluoride a fluoro terpolymer such as a terpolymer of tetrafluoroethylene vinylidene fluoride and an unfluorinated monomer and silicone resin.

If needed conductive powder or the like may be added to the coating resin. Examples of the conductive powder include metal powder carbon black titanium oxide tin oxide and zinc oxide. These conductive powders preferably have an average particle diameter of 1 m or less. At an average particle diameter exceeding 1 m it may become difficult to control the electrical resistance.

The toner can be used as a one component magnetic toner that does not use any carrier or as a non magnetic toner 

The transfer step is a step of transferring the visible image onto a recording medium. Preferably the visible image is first transferred onto an intermediate transfer body primary transfer and then onto a recording medium secondary transfer .

More preferably the transfer step includes a primary transfer step of transferring visible images onto an intermediate transfer body by using two or more colors of toner and more preferably by using full color toners so as to form a combined transfer image and a secondary transfer step of transferring the combined transfer image onto a recording medium.

The transfer of the visible image can be carried out by charging the image carrier by using transferring means. The aforementioned transferring means may be used. The transferring means preferably includes primary transfer means for transferring visible images onto an intermediate transfer body so as to form a combined transfer image and secondary transfer means for transferring the combined transfer image onto a recording medium.

The intermediate transfer body is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose from among known transfer bodies. An example thereof is a transfer belt.

The transfer means primary transfer means and secondary transfer means preferably includes at least a transfer device configured to separate the visible image on the image carrier toward the recording medium side by charging. The number of transferring means may be 1 or more. Examples of the transfer device include a corona transfer device that uses corona discharge a transfer belt a transfer roller a pressure transfer roller and an adhesive transfer device.

The recording medium is typically regular paper but may be any other medium onto which an unfixed image after development can be transferred. The recording medium may be appropriately selected according to the purpose and may be a polyethylene terephthalate PET base for overhead projectors OHP .

The fixing step is a step of fixing a toner image transferred onto a recording medium and fixing means can be used to perform the fixing step. When two or more colors of toners are used fixing may be performed every time a particular color toner is transferred onto a recording medium or after all color toners are transferred and stacked onto a recording medium. The fixing means may be any and may be a thermal fixing method that uses known heating and pressurizing means. Examples of the heating and pressurizing means include a combination of a heating roller and a pressurizing roller and a combination of a heating roller a pressurizing roller and an endless belt. During this process the heating temperature is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The heating temperature is preferably 80 C. to 200 C. If needed a known optical fixing device can be used together with the fixing means for example.

The cleaning step is a step of removing the toner remaining on the image carrier and is preferably performed by cleaning means.

The elastic member of the cleaning blade is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Preferably the elastic member contacts the surface of the image carrier at a pressing force of 10 N m to 100 N m. When the pressing force is less than 10 N m the toner slips through the contact site of the elastic member of the cleaning blade making contact with the surface of the image carrier possibly resulting in cleaning failure. When the pressing force exceeds 100 N m the friction force at the contact site is increased and the cleaning blade may become bent back. The pressing force is more preferably 10 N m to 50 N m.

The pressing force can be measured by a measuring instrument equipped with a small sized compact compression load cell produced by Kyowa Electronic Instruments Co. Ltd. for example.

The angle formed between an end surface of the cleaning blade and a tangent line at a position where the elastic member of the cleaning blade comes into contact with the surface of the image carrier is not particularly limited and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. The angle is preferably 65 or more and 85 or less.

When the angle is less than 65 the cleaning blade may become bent back. When the angle is more than 85 cleaning failure may result.

The charge erasing step is a step of erasing charges by applying a charge erasing bias to the image carrier. The charge erasing step is preferably performed by using charge erasing means.

The charge erasing means may be any means capable of applying a charge erasing bias to the image carrier and may be appropriately selected from known charge erasers. An example thereof is a charge erasing lamp.

The recycling step is a step of recycling the toner removed in the cleaning step so that the toner can be returned to the developing means. The recycling step is preferably performed by recycling means.

The controlling step is a step of controlling the respective steps and is preferably performed by controlling means.

The controlling means may be any means capable of controlling operation of the respective means and may be appropriately selected according to the purpose. Examples of the controlling means include devices such as a sequencer and a computer.

An example of an image forming apparatus according to the present invention will now be described with reference to the drawings.

A transfer unit that includes an intermediate transfer belt serving as an intermediate transfer body is disposed above the image forming units Y C M and K. Toner images of respective colors formed on photosensitive members Y C M and K included in the image forming units Y C M and K are transferred onto the surface of the intermediate transfer belt by being superimposed on one another.

An optical write unit is disposed below the image forming units Y C M and K. The optical write unit is latent image forming means. The optical write unit applies laser beams L emitted based on image data to the photosensitive members Y C M and K of the image forming units Y C M and K. As a result electrostatic latent images for Y C M and K are formed on the photosensitive members Y C M and K. The optical write unit is configured to apply laser beams from a light source to the photosensitive members Y C M and K through plural optical lenses and mirrors by polarizing the laser beams L with a polygon mirror rotated by a motor. Alternatively a system that performs optical scanning by a LED array can be employed as the optical write unit .

A first paper feed cassette and a second paper feed cassette that overlap each other in a perpendicular direction are disposed below the optical write unit . In each paper feed cassette a plurality of recording media P are stacked and stored. The topmost recording medium P in the first paper feed cassette is in contact with a first paper feed roller and the topmost recording medium P in the second paper feed cassette is in contact with a second paper feed roller . When the first paper feed roller is rotated anticlockwise in by driving means not illustrated in the drawing the topmost recording medium P in the first paper feed cassette is ejected toward a feed path disposed on the right hand side of the cassette in so as to extend in the perpendicular direction. When the second paper feed roller is rotated anticlockwise in by driving means not illustrated in the drawing the topmost recording medium P in the second paper feed cassette is ejected toward the feed path .

Plural transport roller pairs are disposed in the feed path . The recording medium P fed to the feed path is sandwiched between the rollers of the transport roller pairs and transported in the feed path from the lower side toward the upper side of .

A resist roller pair is disposed at a downstream end of the feed path in the transporting direction. The resist roller pair temporarily stops rotation of the rollers as soon as the recording medium P sent from the transport roller pairs is placed between the rollers. Then the resist roller pair feeds the recording medium P at an appropriate timing toward a secondary transfer nip described below.

Referring to the image forming unit includes a drum shaped photosensitive member serving as an image carrier. Although the photosensitive member in the drawing has a drum shape the photosensitive member may have a sheet shape or an endless belt shape.

A charge roller a developing device a primary transfer roller a cleaning device a lubricant coater and a charge erasing lamp not illustrated in the drawing are disposed around the photosensitive member . The charge roller is a charging member of a charging device serving as charging means. The developing device is a developing means for forming a toner image from a latent image formed on the surface of the photosensitive member . The primary transfer roller is a primary transfer member of a primary transfer device serving as primary transfer means for transferring a toner image on the surface of the photosensitive member onto the intermediate transfer belt . The cleaning device is cleaning means for cleaning the toner remaining on the photosensitive member after the transfer of the toner image onto the intermediate transfer belt . The lubricant coater is lubricant applying means for applying a lubricant to the surface of the photosensitive member after cleaning with the cleaning device . The charge erasing lamp not illustrated in the drawing is charge erasing means for erasing the surface charges of the photosensitive member after cleaning.

The charge roller is disposed in a noncontact manner with a particular distance from the photosensitive member and configured to charge the photosensitive member to a particular polarity and a particular potential. The surface of the photosensitive member uniformly charged by the charge roller is illuminated with a laser beam L based on image data from the optical write unit serving as latent image forming means so as to form an electrostatic latent image on the surface of the photosensitive member .

The developing device includes a developing roller serving as a developing agent carrier. A development bias is applied to the developing roller from a power supply not illustrated in the drawing. A feed screw and a stirring screw are disposed in a casing of the developing device . The feed screw and the stirring screw are configured to transport the developing agent in the casing in directions opposite to each other so as to conduct stirring. A doctor for regulating the developing agent carried on the developing roller is also provided. The toner in the developing agent stirred and transported by the two screws namely the feed screw and the stirring screw is charged to a particular polarity. The developing agent is then lifted on the surface of the developing roller and regulated by the doctor . As a result the toner adheres to the latent image on the photosensitive member in a development region opposing the photosensitive member .

The cleaning device includes a cleaning blade and other associated parts. The cleaning blade makes contact with the photosensitive member in a counter direction relative to the moving direction of the surface of the photosensitive member . The detailed account of the cleaning blade is given below.

The lubricant coater includes a solid lubricant a lubricant pressurizing spring and other associated parts. The lubricant coater uses a fur brush as an application brush used to apply the solid lubricant to the photosensitive member . The solid lubricant is retained in a bracket and pressurized toward the fur brush by the lubricant pressurizing spring . The solid lubricant is scraped by the fur brush rotating in the dragging direction relative to the rotation direction of the photosensitive member and the lubricant is applied to the photosensitive member . Since the lubricant is applied to the photosensitive member the coefficient of friction of the surface of the photosensitive member is maintained to be 0.2 or less at the time when image forming is not being performed.

The charging device is a noncontact closely spaced device in which the charge roller is disposed closed to the photosensitive member . The charging device may employ a known structure such as corotron scorotron a solid state charger or the like. Among these charging systems a contact charging system or a noncontact closely spaced system is more preferable since the charging efficiency is high less ozone is generated and the size of the device can be reduced.

Examples of the light source for the laser beam L of the optical write unit and the light source of the charge erasing lamp or the like include all types of light emitting devices such as fluorescent lamps tungsten lamps halogen lamps mercury lamps sodium lamps light emitting diodes LEDs semiconductor lasers LDs and electroluminescence EL devices.

In order to apply light of a desired wavelength region only various types of filters such as a sharp cut filter a band pass filter an infrared cut filter a dichroic filter an interference filter and a color conversion filter can be used.

Among these light sources a light emitting diode and a semiconductor laser are preferable since they have high illumination energy and emit long wavelength light of 600 nm to 800 nm.

The transfer unit illustrated in and serving as transfer means includes in addition to the intermediate transfer belt a belt cleaning unit a first bracket and a second bracket . The transfer unit also includes four primary transfer rollers Y C M and K a secondary transfer backup roller a drive roller an assisting roller and a tension roller . The intermediate transfer belt is stretched across these eight roller members and driven by the rotation of the drive roller anticlockwise in so as to perform endless move. The primary transfer rollers Y C M and K and the photosensitive members Y C M and K sandwich the endlessly moving intermediate transfer belt so as to form primary transfer nips. A transfer bias having a polarity for example a positive polarity opposite to that of the toner is applied to the back surface loop inner peripheral surface of the intermediate transfer belt . As the intermediate transfer belt is endlessly moved and sequentially passes the first transfer nips for Y C M and K the Y C M and K toner images on the photosensitive members Y C M and K are transferred primary transfer onto the front surface of the intermediate transfer belt in a superimposed manner. As a result a toner image constituted by superimposed images of four colors hereinafter this image may be referred to as a four color toner image is formed on the intermediate transfer belt .

The secondary transfer backup roller and a secondary transfer roller disposed on the outer side of the loop of the intermediate transfer belt sandwich the intermediate transfer belt and form a secondary transfer nip. The resist roller pair described above sends the recording medium P sandwiched between the rollers toward the secondary transfer nip at a timing that can be synchronized with the four color toner image on the intermediate transfer belt . The entire four color toner image on the intermediate transfer belt is transferred secondary transfer onto the recording medium P in the secondary transfer nip due to the secondary transfer electric field formed between the secondary transfer roller to which the secondary transfer bias is applied and the secondary transfer backup roller and due to the influence of the nip pressure. As a result a full color toner image is formed including white from the recording medium P.

The transfer residual toner which had not been transferred onto the recording medium P remains attached to the intermediate transfer belt that has passed the secondary transfer nip. The toner is removed with the belt cleaning unit . The belt cleaning unit has a belt cleaning blade in contact with the front surface of the intermediate transfer belt and the transfer residual toner on the intermediate transfer belt is scraped off and removed by the belt cleaning blade

The first bracket of the transfer unit is designed to swing at a particular rotational angle about the rotation axis line of the assisting roller as the driving of a solenoid not illustrated in the drawing is turned ON and OFF. The image forming apparatus forming a monochrome image turns the first bracket anticlockwise in by a small amount by driving the solenoid. Due to this rotation the primary transfer rollers Y C and M for Y C and M are revolved anticlockwise in about the rotation axis line of the assisting roller so as to detach the intermediate transfer belt from the photosensitive members Y C and M for Y C and M. Then only the image forming unit K among the four image forming units Y C M and K is driven to form a monochrome image. Accordingly it becomes possible to avoid wear of components constituting the image forming units Y C and M for Y C and M since these units are not driven during formation of a monochrome image.

A fixing unit is disposed above the secondary transfer nip in . The fixing unit includes a pressurizing and heating roller that contains a heat source such as a halogen lamp and a fixing belt unit . The fixing belt unit includes a fixing belt serving as a fixing member a heating roller that contains a heat source such as a halogen lamp a tension roller a drive roller a temperature sensor not illustrated in the drawing and other associated parts. The fixing belt is of an endless type is stretched across the heating roller the tension roller and the drive roller and is moved endlessly in the anticlockwise direction in . During the course of the endless movement the fixing belt is heated from the back side by the heating roller . The pressurizing and heating roller rotated anticlockwise in contacts the front surface of the heated fixing belt at a portion supported by the heating roller from the back. As a result a fixing nip is formed at a portion where the pressurizing and heating roller and the fixing belt contact each other.

A temperature sensor not illustrated in the drawing is disposed on the outer side of the loop of the fixing belt so as to oppose the front surface of the fixing belt with a particular gap therebetween. The temperature sensor detects the surface temperature of the fixing belt immediately before entering the fixing nip. The detection result is sent to a fixing power supply circuit not illustrated in the drawing. Based on the detection results of the temperature sensor the fixing power supply circuit controls ON and OFF of the power supplied to the heat source in the heating roller and the heat source in the pressurizing and heating roller .

The recording medium P that has passed through the secondary transfer nip is detached from the intermediate transfer belt and sent to the fixing unit . As the recording medium P is transported upward in while being sandwiched in the fixing nip in the fixing unit the recording medium P is heated and pressurized by the fixing belt . As a result the full color toner image is fixed onto the recording medium P.

The recording medium P subjected to this fixing treatment travels between the rollers of a sheet ejection roller pair and is discharged from the apparatus. A stack portion is formed on the upper surface of a casing of the main body of the image forming apparatus . The recording medium P discharged by the sheet ejection roller pair is sequentially stacked on the stack portion .

Four toner cartridges Y C M and K respectively containing Y C M and K toners are disposed above the transfer unit . The Y C M and K toners in the toner cartridges Y C M and K are supplied to developing devices Y C M and K of the image forming units Y C M and K as needed. These toner cartridges Y C M and K are independent from the image forming units Y C M and K and are detachable from the main body of the image forming apparatus.

First a signal to perform printing is sent from an operation section or the like not illustrated in the drawing and a predetermined voltage or current is applied to the charge roller and the developing roller at a predetermined timing based on this signal. Similarly a predetermined voltage or current is applied to the optical write unit and light sources such as a charge erasing lamp at a predetermined timing. In synchronization with this operation the photosensitive members Y C M and K are driven and rotated in the arrow direction of by a photosensitive member drive motor not illustrated in the drawing serving as driving means.

As the photosensitive members Y C M and K are rotated in the arrow direction in the surfaces of the photosensitive members Y C. M and K are uniformly charged to a predetermined potential by the charge rollers . Laser beams L corresponding to image data are applied from the optical write unit to the photosensitive members Y C M and K. The charges in the portion irradiated with the laser beam L on the surface of each photosensitive member are erased and an electrostatic latent image is formed as a result.

The surfaces of the photosensitive members Y C M and K on which electrostatic latent images have been formed are each rubbed with a magnetic brush of the developing agent formed on the developing roller at a portion opposing the developing device . During this process the negatively charged toner on the developing roller is caused to migrate to the electrostatic latent image by a predetermined development bias applied to the developing roller and a toner image is formed developed as a result. In each of the image forming units Y C M and K the same image forming process is executed and toner images of respective colors are respectively formed on the surfaces of the photosensitive members Y C M and K of the image forming units Y C M and K.

As discussed above in the image forming apparatus electrostatic latent images formed on the photosensitive members Y C M and K are reversed and developed by the developing devices with a negatively charged toner. In this embodiment an example in which a negative positive N P toner attaching to a portion having a lower potential noncontact charging roller system is used is described. However the system is not limited to this.

The toner images of respective colors formed on the surfaces of the photosensitive members Y C M and K are sequentially subjected to primary transfer so that the toner images are superimposed on one another on the surface of the intermediate transfer belt . As a result a four color toner image is formed on the intermediate transfer belt .

The four color toner image formed on the intermediate transfer belt is transferred onto the recording medium P fed from the first paper feed cassette or second paper feed cassette passed between the rollers of the resist roller pair and reached the secondary transfer nip. During this process the recording medium P temporarily stops while being sandwiched in the resist roller pair and supplied to the secondary transfer nip in a manner synchronous with the front end of the image on the intermediate transfer belt . The recording medium P onto which the toner image has been transferred is detached from the intermediate transfer belt and transported to the fixing unit . As the recording medium P onto which the toner image has been transferred passes through the fixing unit the toner image is fixed to the recording medium P by heat and pressure. The recording medium P with the toner image fixed thereon is discharged outside the image forming apparatus and stacked on the stack portion .

The surface of the intermediate transfer belt from which the toner image has been transferred onto the recording medium P at the secondary transfer nip is cleaned by the belt cleaning unit to remove the transfer residual toner on the surface.

The surfaces of the photosensitive members Y C M and K from which the toner images of respective colors have been transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt at the primary transfer nip are cleaned by the cleaning device to remove the residual toner after transfer. A lubricant is applied to the surfaces by the lubricant coater and then charges are erased with the charge erasing lamp.

Referring to the image forming unit of the image forming apparatus includes a photosensitive member and a charge roller a developing device a cleaning device a lubricant coater and other associated parts serving as processing means housed in a frame . The entire image forming unit is configured as a process cartridge and is detachable from the main body of the image forming apparatus . In the image forming apparatus the image forming unit is designed as a process cartridge so that the photosensitive member and the processing means can be replaced together. Alternatively the unit parts such as the photosensitive member the charge roller the developing device the cleaning device and the lubricant coater may each be designed to be replaceable.

The toner used in the image forming apparatus is preferably a polymerized toner prepared by suspension polymerization emulsion polymerization or dispersion polymerization since the toner can be made highly circular with a reduced diameter and the image quality can be improved. In particular a polymerized toner having an average circularity of 0.97 or higher and a volume average particle diameter of 5.5 m or less is preferably used from the viewpoint of forming high definition images.

The polymerized toner having high circularity and small diameter cannot be satisfactorily removed from the surface of the photosensitive member by using the cleaning blade in a manner similar to removal of a typical pulverized toner from the surface of the photosensitive member resulting in cleaning failure. Increasing the pressure of contact of the cleaning blade onto the photosensitive member may enhance the cleaning property but accelerates wear of the cleaning blade . Moreover the frictional force between the cleaning blade and the photosensitive member is increased the contact portion tip ridge of the cleaning blade in contact with the photosensitive member is pulled in the moving direction of the photosensitive member and becomes bent back refer to . Bending back of the contact portion of the cleaning blade causes various problems such as noise vibrations and a missing portion in the contact portion.

As illustrated in the cleaning blade includes a plate shape supporting member composed of a rigid material such as metal or a hard plastic and an elastic member having a plate shape. The elastic member is fixed to one end of the supporting member with an adhesive or the like. The other end of the supporting member is cantilevered by the casing of the cleaning device .

As illustrated in the cleaning blade is constituted by the supporting member and the elastic member having a plate shape and having one end connected to the supporting member and a free end portion of a particular length at the other end. The contact portion is the free end side end of the elastic member and is arranged to contact the surface of the photosensitive member along the longitudinal direction.

The elastic member preferably has high rebound resilience in order to follow the eccentricity of the photosensitive member and fine undulations on the surface of the photosensitive member . Polyurethane rubber or the like is preferable. The JIS A hardness of the elastic member is preferably 60 or higher. The rebound resilience of the elastic member according to the JIS K 6255 standard is preferably 35 or less at 23 C. The contact portion of the elastic member contacting the surface of the image carrier contains a cured product of an UV curable composition that contains a meth acrylate compound in particular a meth acrylate compound having a tricyclodecane structure or a meth acrylate compound having an adamantane structure pentaerythritol triacrylate and a dipentaerythritol hexaacrylate are preferable .

The UV curable composition containing a meth acrylate compound is allowed to penetrate the contact portion of the elastic member and then irradiated with UV light. As a result a penetrated portion illustrated in is formed the hardness of the contact portion is increased the durability is improved and deformation of the elastic member in the direction of the movement of the surface of the photosensitive member can be suppressed. Moreover deformation can be suppressed by the penetrated portion when the interior is exposed by wear of the surface layer over time.

In the broken line S indicates a plane imaginary plane that lies at an equal distance from a surface a and a surface b constituting the contact portion. The double headed arrow on the broken line in indicates the modified portion that extends 100 m in the contact portion thickness direction on the imaginary plane.

S in denotes the plane that lies at an equal distant from the two surfaces constituting the contact portion.

In the present invention the value of a peak area ratio S Snormalized by a peak area ratio S S namely S S S S is 1.5 or more and 10 or less where Sis a peak area value at 1162 cmand Sis a peak area value at 1533 cmobtained in infrared microspectrometry at the position of the double headed arrow and S S is the peak area ratio in a portion outside the modified layer.

A process cartridge according to the present invention includes at least an image carrier and cleaning means for removing a toner remaining on the image carrier and may further include other means if needed.

The process cartridge is a device component that is detachably attachable to an image forming apparatus and includes an image carrier the cleaning blade of the present invention described above and at least one means selected from charging means exposing means developing means transferring means cleaning means and charge erasing means.

Examples of the present invention will now be described. These examples do not limit the scope of the present invention.

The normalized peak area ratio of the cleaning blade modified portion was measured by a transmission method using FT IR 6200 with IRT 7000 produced by JASCO Corporation. The measured region was any point in the modified portion extending 100 m from the contact portion in the contact portion thickness inward direction on the plane that lies at an equal distance from two surfaces constituting the contact portion. The peak area was calculated by using the bundled software. The peak area of the portion outside the modified layer is obtained from a spectrum measured at a desired point of the elastic member in the region not penetrated by the acrylate compound the region being on the inner side of the contact portion.

The JIS A hardness of the elastic member was measured according to JIS K 6253 by using a micro durometer MD 1 KOBUNSHI KEIKI CO. LTD. For an elastic member having a two layer structure measurement was performed at each surface.

The rebound resilience of the elastic member was measured according to JIS K 6255 by using No. 221 resilience tester produced by Toyo Seiki Seisaku Sho Ltd. The measurement specimen was a specimen prepared by stacking sheets each about 2 mm in thickness so that the total thickness was 4 mm or more.

The average circularity of the toner was measured with a flow particle image analyzer FPIA 2000 produced by Sysmex Corporation . In particular into 100 mL to 150 mL of water from which impurity solid matter in the container had been removed in advance 0.1 mL to 0.5 mL of a surfactant alkyl benzene sulfonic acid salt was added as a dispersant and then about 0.1 g to 0.5 g of the measurement specimen toner was added thereto. Subsequently the suspension in which the toner had been dispersed was dispersed with an ultrasonic disperser for 1 to 3 minutes to prepare a dispersion having a density of 3 000 particles L to 10 000 particles L. The dispersion was loaded in the analyzer and the shape and distribution of the toner were measured. Based on the measurement results C2 C1 was determined where C1 represents an external peripheral length of an actual toner projection image having an area S illustrated in and C2 is an external peripheral length of a circle having the same projection area S illustrated in . The average was taken and assumed to be the average circularity.

The volume average particle diameter of the toner was determined by a Coulter counter method. In particular a Coulter Multisizer 2e produced by Beckman Coulter Inc. was used to obtain data related to the number distribution and the volume distribution of the toner and the data was sent to a personal computer via an interface produced by Nikkaki Co. Ltd. to conduct analysis. To be more specific a 1 mass NaCl aqueous solution using a first grade sodium chloride was prepared as an electrolyte. Into 100 mL to 150 mL of this electrolyte aqueous solution 0.1 mL to 5 mL of a surfactant alkyl benzene sulfonic acid salt was added as a dispersant. Thereto 2 mg to 20 mg of a toner serving as a test specimen was added and dispersed with an ultrasonic disperser for 1 to 3 minutes. In a separate beaker 100 mL to 200 mL of the electrolyte aqueous solution was placed and the solution after the dispersion treatment was added to the beaker until the concentration reached a particular value. The resulting mixture was then processed with a Coulter Multisizer 2e.

The diameters of 50 000 toner particles were measured by using a 100 m aperture and thirteen channels namely 2.00 m to less than 2.52 m 2.52 m to less than 3.17 m 3.17 m to less than 4.00 m 4.00 m to less than 5.04 m 5.04 m to less than 6.35 m 6.35 m to less than 8.00 m 8.00 m to less than 10.08 m 10.08 m to less than 12.70 m 12.70 m to less than 16.00 m 16.00 m to less than 20.20 m 20.20 m to less than 25.40 m 25.40 m to less than 32.00 m and 32.00 m to less than 40.30 m. The toner particles with a diameter of 2.00 m or more and 32.0 m or less were subject to the measurement.

The volume average particle diameter was then calculated from the relationship Volume average particle size XfV fV where X is a representative diameter of each channel V is an equivalent volume at the representative diameter of each channel and f is the number of particles in each channel.

A 11.5 mm 32.6 mm plate shaped elastic member 1 having an average thickness of 1.8 mm was prepared by referring to a method for making a cleaning blade disclosed in Reference Examples of JP 2011 141449 A.

A 11.5 mm 32.6 mm plate shape two layer elastic member 2 having an average thickness of 1.8 mm was prepared by referring to a method for making a cleaning blade disclosed in Example 1 of JP 2011 141449 A.

The JIS A hardness of the resulting two layer elastic member 2 was 80 at the contact surface side and 75 at the opposite side. The rebound resilience was 25 .

Toner base particles having an average circularity of 0.98 and a volume average particle diameter of 4.9 m were prepared by a polymerization method. To 100 parts by mass of the toner base particles 1.5 parts by mass of small diameter silica fine particles H2000 produced by Clariant 0.5 part by mass of small diameter titanium oxide fine particles MT 150AI produced by Tayca and large diameter silica fine particles UFP 30H produced by Denki Kagaku Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha were added and the resulting mixture was stirred and mixed to prepare a toner.

In a liquid prepared by diluting the UV curable composition 1 with a diluent cyclohexanone to a solid content of 50 by mass a portion up to 2 mm from the tip of the elastic member 1 on the side that comes into contact with an image carrier was immersed for 2 hours and dried in air for 3 minutes. After air drying UV light was applied 140 W cm 5 m min 5 passes by using an UV irradiation device UVC 2534 1MNLC3 produced by Ushio Inc. . Then drying was performed for 15 minutes in a heat dryer at a temperature of 100 C. inside.

Next the elastic member 1 after the surface curing treatment was fixed to a plate holder serving as a supporting member. As a result a cleaning blade 1 was obtained.

Next the cleaning blade 1 was loaded in a color multifunctional printer imagio MP C5001 produced by Ricoh Company at predetermined tip entry amount linear pressure and installation angle. The linear pressure and installation angle differ depending on the sample type of the cleaning blade.

The toner was loaded in the color multifunctional printer imagio MP C5001 produced by Ricoh Company . In an environment at 21 C. and 65 RH a chart A4 size landscape orientation having an image area ratio of 5 was printed on 10 000 sheets at 3 prints job. Then the amount of bent back at the contact portion the cleaning property and the amount of wear at the contact portion were evaluated as below. The results are indicated in Table 3.

The state of the cleaning blade coming into contact with a glass plate to which a material used for the photosensitive member surface layer had been applied was observed from the back of the glass plate. The cleaning blade here was caused to rub the surface of the glass plate at a predetermined tip entry amount linear pressure and a predetermined installation angle. The length of the bent back portion at the contact portion of the elastic member of the cleaning blade was measured by using an image output from a CCD camera Nikon CM 5 produced by Nikon Corporation .

After the 10 000 sheets of output described above a vertical strip pattern with respect to the paper moving direction 43 mm in width and the three chart evaluation image A4 in size landscape orientation were output on 20 sheets. The output images were observed with naked eye and the cleaning property was evaluated based on the following standard. Note that the abnormal image indicates that streaks or strips appeared in the printed images or that white spot images were observed.

After the 10 000 sheets of the output described above the wear width of the elastic member viewed from the tip surface side as illustrated in was measured with Laser Microscope VK 9510 produced by Keyence Corporation and the result was assumed to be the wear amount of the contact portion. Note that the shaded part in indicates the cross sectional area of the worn portion.

Cleaning blades 2 to 6 of Examples 2 to 6 and cleaning blades 12 to 14 of Comparative Examples 1 to 3 were prepared as in Example 1 except that the UV curable compositions indicated in Table 2 were used instead of the UV curable composition used in Example 1.

Each cleaning blade obtained was evaluated in terms of the amount of bent back of the contact portion the cleaning property and the wear amount of the contact portion as in Example 1. The results are indicated in Table 3.

Cleaning blades 7 and 8 of Examples 7 and 8 were prepared as in Example 1 except that the UV curable compositions indicated in Table 2 were used and that the penetration time was changed to 6 hours.

The resulting cleaning blades were evaluated in terms of the amount of bent back of the contact portion the cleaning property and the wear amount of the contact portion as in Example 1. The results are indicated in Table 3.

A cleaning blade 9 of Example 9 was prepared as in Example 1 except that the penetration time was changed to 6 hours.

The resulting cleaning blade was evaluated in terms of the amount of bent back of the contact portion the cleaning property and the wear amount of the contact portion as in Example 1. The results are indicated in Table 3.

Cleaning blades 10 and 11 of Examples 10 and 11 were prepared as in Example 1 except that the elastic member 2 indicated in Table 1 and the UV curable compositions indicated in Table 2 were used. Note that the elastic member having a two layer structure was prepared by bonding two types of rubber having different physical properties as described above and rubber having a higher hardness came at the contact portion tip ridge that contacted the image carrier.

Each cleaning blade was evaluated in terms of the amount of bent back of the contact portion the cleaning property and the wear amount of the contact portion as in Example 1. The results are indicated in Table 3.

A cleaning blade 15 of Comparative Example 4 was prepared as in Example 1 except that the penetration time was changed to 18 hours.

The resulting cleaning blade was evaluated in terms of the amount of bent back of the contact portion the cleaning property and the wear amount of the contact portion as in Example 1. The results are indicated in Table 3.

Examples 1 to 11 each include a modified layer containing a cured product of an UV curable composition containing a meth acrylate compound according to the present invention and satisfy the constitutional requirement that the value of a peak area ratio S Snormalized by a peak area ratio S S in a portion other than the modified layer is 1.5 or more and 10 or less where Sis a peak area value at 1162 cmand Sis a peak area value at 1533 cmobtained in microspectrometry at the position in the modified portion that extends from the contact portion by 100 m in the contact portion thickness inward direction on a plane that lies at an equal distant from two surfaces constituting the contact portion.

The results in Table 3 clarify that in Examples 1 to 11 bending back of the contact portion of the elastic member is suppressed the wear of the contact portion of the elastic member is less during use and a satisfactory cleaning property can be maintained over a long period of time.

 A cleaning blade including an elastic member configured to come into contact with a surface of a member to be cleaned and remove residual matter adhering to the surface of the member to be cleaned the elastic member satisfying requirements a and b below 

a. The elastic member has a contact portion configured to come into contact with the surface of the member to be cleaned and the contact portion includes a modified layer that contains a cured product of an ultraviolet curable composition containing a meth acrylate compound and

b. A value obtained by normalizing a peak area ratio S Sof a modified portion with a peak area ratio S S of a portion outside the modified layer is 1.5 or more and 10 or less where Sis a peak area value at 1162 cmand Sis a peak area value at 1533 cmobtained by infrared microspectrometry and the modified portion is a region that extends 100 m in a contact portion thickness inward direction from the contact portion on a plane that lies at an equal distance from two surfaces constituting the contact portion.

 The cleaning blade set forth in wherein the meth acrylate compound has an alicyclic structure having 6 or more carbon atoms in a molecule and includes 2 to 6 functional groups.

 The cleaning blade set forth in above wherein the meth acrylate compound having an alicyclic structure having 6 or more carbon atoms in a molecule has a molecular weight of 500 or less.

 The cleaning blade set forth in one of to above wherein the meth acrylate compound having an alicyclic structure having 6 or more carbon atoms in a molecule is at least one selected from a meth acrylate compound having a tricyclodecane structure and a meth acrylate compound having an adamantane structure. The cleaning blade set forth in above wherein the meth acrylate compound having a tricyclodecane structure is at least one selected from tricyclodecane dimethanol diacrylate and tricyclodecane dimethanol dimethacrylate. The cleaning blade set forth in above wherein the meth acrylate compound having an adamantane structure is at least one selected from 1 3 adamantane dimethanol diacrylate 1 3 adamantane dimethanol dimethacrylate 1 3 5 adamantane trimethanol triacrylate and 1 3 5 adamantane trimethanol trimethacrylate. The cleaning blade set forth in above wherein the meth acrylate compound has a pentaerythritol tri meth acrylate structure including 3 to 6 functional groups. The cleaning blade set forth in any one of to above wherein the ultraviolet curable composition further contains a meth acrylate compound having a pentaerythritol tri meth acrylate structure that includes 3 to 6 functional groups. The cleaning blade set forth in any one of to above wherein the elastic member is a multilayered body formed by integrating two or more types of rubber having different JIS A hardnesses. An image forming apparatus including 

Numerous additional modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the disclosure of the present invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein.

