---

title: Remote system configuration via modulated audio
abstract: The user interface of a mobile computing device is used to configure a target system by establishing a physical connection between a mobile computing device and a target system, such as an audio cable connection between audio jacks of the two or an acoustic coupling through air between a microphones and speakers of the two; establishing an audio or low ultrasonic signal communication session between the two; responsive to the target system entering a configuration mode, prompting a user via the user interface of the mobile computing device to prepare configuration parameter values for the target system; and implementing the configuration parameter values in the target system using the communication session and the physical connection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09450812&OS=09450812&RS=09450812
owner: Dechnia, LLC
number: 09450812
owner_city: Oklahoma City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140314
---
This invention relates generally to methods and processes for configuring complex systems by a remote device in which the remote device provides a full user interface and the complex system provides a limited user interface.

Many computer based systems that we encounter in everyday life in our homes workplaces and in public offer a wide array of configuration options. These configurable options may enable and disable certain features and may provide the system with information it needs to perform its functions. In particular there is a trend in technology for more and more devices to connect to computer networks and especially wireless computer networks such as Wi Fi networks e.g. Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE Wireless Fidelity standard 802.11b . As Wi Fi has proliferated in offices homes factories and public spaces retail parks hotels etc. providers of sophisticated technology equipment have found new and useful added value functions which can be offered when a device is redesigned to include a Wi Fi interface.

For example newer smart televisions may connect to a wired Ethernet etc. or wireless network. After connecting to a network in a home the owner can link to the smart TV to use an Apple iPad Android Based phone or other tablet computer to control the TV to stream content from the controller of the TV for playback on the TV and to search and find online content such as on demand movies Wikimedia sources and photo and video sharing websites.

In another example newer computer printers can be configured to access a home or office Wi Fi network eliminating the need for a wired connection and allowing remote wireless printing from any suitably equipped desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer or smart phone with in the same Wi Fi network. Some newer printers also offer a remote print function wherein upon registration and configuration the printer is assigned a unique electronic mail address. Subsequently any document or attachment sent to the assigned email address from anywhere in the world will be routed over the Internet to the local Wi Fi network and to the printer for automatic unattended printing of the document or attachment.

Still another example are newer environmental controls especially smart thermostats and appliance power controllers intended for home use which also connect to a home Wi Fi network. These networked environmental controls report data such as occupancy status temperature and power consumption to a remote server which then collects data for the user. The user logging into the server via the Internet from anywhere can see patterns and set control parameters such as thermostat set back times and shut off power to appliances which are running unnecessarily and wasting energy.

Yet another example are newer security cameras which integrate into a wireless network and then make their surveillance images available to a server where a user can remotely view the data from the cameras.

Conceivably any piece of equipment in the home or office can benefit in some way from network connectivity be it a refrigerator water heater spa swimming pool lighting printers air conditioning heating alarm system television sound system etc. all of which will require appropriate configuration for network connection.

However in order to configure any of these devices to access a wired Ethernet or wireless network several parameters and values must be selected and configured into the device. For example it may be necessary for the device to log into the network by network name SSID and using a password or key value. If the network is security protected the system must be configured to use the appropriate encryption and security protocol such as Wired Equivalent Privacy WEP Wi Fi Protected Access WPA and WPA2 which are defined in IEEE 802.11 802.11i 2004 802.11i 2007 respectively. Network names passwords and key values may be long non intuitive and may contain a variety of letters and numbers. In some network interface configuration parameters numeric values may have to be specified to the device such as an Internet Protocol IP address and perhaps subnet mask values and even port assignments. And some systems such as the printers that respond to an email address may require inputting an email address value and potentially a Universal Resource Locator URL value for the web server ports for that server and corresponding log in values user name password .

Many of these systems especially the retail home use systems have very limited user interfaces provided on them to save cost and complexity of the device. Because this configuration is typically only performed once upon initial set up of the equipment users are forced to navigate very small display screens and input values using inefficient key combinations such as up down arrow keys to scroll through the alphabet to pick just one character right left arrow keys to move to the next screen or selectable option etc. Not only is this a frustrating experience for many users but it is error prone leading many consumers to believe their new product is not operating correctly when the problem is actually just an incorrect configuration choice or parameter.

In the recent past manufacturers have recognized this problem and attempted to solve it by having many new devices power up with a default configuration. Some of the default configuration values may be printed on a label affixed to the unit so that users and change some other equipment in their network router firewall application programs to match the default conditions of the new piece of equipment. This however can pose security risks because hackers can easily guess the default values and then can access the device without the owner s permission or knowledge.

The user interface of a mobile computing device is used to configure a target system by establishing a physical connection between a mobile computing device and a target system such as an audio cable connection between audio jacks of the two or an acoustic coupling through air between a microphones and speakers of the two establishing an audio or low ultrasonic signal communication session between the two responsive to the target system entering a configuration mode prompting a user via the user interface of the mobile computing device to prepare configuration parameter values for the target system and implementing the configuration parameter values in the target system using the communication session and the physical connection.

The present inventors have recognized a problem in the art which they believe is as of yet unrecognized and unsolved by those skilled in the art regarding providing useful and intuitive user interfaces for network compatible computer based systems which have limited abbreviated or non existent user interfaces on board.

The present inventors realized that prolific mobile technology such as tablet computers laptop computers and smart phones have sufficient user interface hardware which exceeds that of the typical limited user interface on these systems larger screen more colors touch interface virtual or hardware keyboard etc. The inventors set out to co opt these larger and more capable user interfaces to configure these target systems.

The inventors encountered at least three significant problems in their development. First if the new design or app for the tablet computer or smart phone were to try to connect to the target system using a wireless technology such as Wi Fi or Bluetooth then the user would still have to operate the limited user interface on the target system which creates an opportunity for error and frustration.

Second many of the most popular mobile electronic devices such as an Apple iPod iPhone or iPad have no open standard wired connections such as RS 232 may have proprietary wired connections e.g. Lightning or may have no wired connections available at all.

Third many of these target systems are designed to connect to only one network at a time so if the mobile device connected to the target device using a Bluetooth connection Wi Fi connection or wired connection then the target device is disabled or unable to attempt to connect to the Wi Fi network of ultimate interest. Thus the user would have to toggle between configuring the target device while connected to it then disconnecting from it testing the Wi Fi connection that was being configured and if unsuccessful reconnecting to the device and repeating the process.

One considered option for the physical connection between the mobile device and the target device was optical transmission technologies. Infrared Data Arrangement IrDA is commonly used between remote controls and entertainment equipment such as televisions and home theater components. Many of today s mobile devices do not have IrDA transmitters built into them and IrDA is a relatively low bandwidth and error prone transmission scheme. The lack of IrDA transmitter might be overcome by modulating the screen on the mobile device as some screens also produce a small amount of infrared light but the data rate and error rate issues remain of concern.

The present inventors realized that almost all of these mobile devices have audio interfaces on them including combinations of microphones speakers and mic headphone jacks. And many of the non network compatible target systems already have at least an audio output device such as a speaker or annunciator and many have an audio input device as well. For those which are being redesigned to add network compatibility adding an audio jack e.g. 3.55 mm jack for receiving an audio cable or adding a microphone or speaker is a relatively low cost proposition which is consistent with design constraints of retail electronics. There are several headphone jack sizes configurations and pin out definitions in use in various mobile systems today some of which use the same size jack receptacle and cable end plug but which use different pin out conventions. Jacks receiving 2.5 mm and 3.5 mm plugs are common on many mobile devices some with slightly different pin out definitions. Some electronic audio interface driver devices for use on circuit boards automatically sense the pin out of a jack or cable and other embodiments may utilize a fixed pin out or switchable connection circuit design. The Apple iPhone iPad and iPod Touch have a headphone microphone connection which is compliant with Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association JEITA standard RC5325A. In a preferred embodiment a target system which is compatible with being configured by a mobile system through an audio cable will automatically detect the pin out or wire to signal assignments of a cable which is plugged into its audio jack. Through some experimentation the present inventors also found that lower frequencies of ultrasonic signals can also be detected by microphones and produced by speakers of many common mobile devices. Audio is typically considered to extend from the lower few tens of cycles per second Hertz Hz up to 18 or 20 kilohertz kHz . Lower ultrasonic signals while imperceptible by most people s hearing extends up a few more kilohertz such as to 27 kHz or 28 kHz. The present inventors realized that both communication frequency ranges are suitable and reliable enough for the amount of data to be transferred between the mobile device and the target system being configured and that the lower ultrasonic signals presented an additional advantage of not confusing the user and being less susceptible to interference by ambient noise.

Through additional experimentation and testing the present inventors discovered that both wired cabled and through the air acoustic wireless coupling were reliable enough of physical connection over limited distances to provide a connection between the mobile device and the target device.

Using the results of these experiments and test the communication stack shown in can be realized in certain embodiments of the present invention. The top of the stack is the application layer which is the program or programs running on the mobile device such as an Apple iOS application program or Google Andriod application program. At this layer the application program merely makes application programming interface API calls to establish a connection with a target device and to send and receive data to and from the target device.

In the optional buffering and packetizing layer middleware program instructions executed by the processor of the mobile device hold and organize data to be sent to the target device and to be received by the application layer . In the optional error control layer typical error detection Cyclic Redundancy Check parity bits etc. are implemented and error free data is exchanged with the buffering layer . Erroneous data is re transmitted or re received according to a simple handshake protocol of acknowledgement via the modulation demodulation layer .

The mod demod layer is responsible for modifying an audio or low ultrasonic signal to embed data or recover data from the signal. Amplitude modulation AM or the more advanced Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QAM which is well known in the modem arts can be employed. Preferably according to experiments and tests by the present inventors a form of frequency modulation FM and in particular Frequency Shift Keying FSK is employed. The FSK modulation can be readily implemented in firmware by simply generating one of two frequency audio or low ultrasonic tones and the FSK demodulation can be implemented in firmware using two bandpass filters.

The physical interface may take the form of one or more cabled connections an acoustic through the air wireless coupling or combinations of these physical interconnection types. A two wire interface can be half duplex e.g. transmit only from the mobile device to the target device or it may be full duplex e.g. transmit and received to and from the mobile device and the target device using current summation signaling. A three wire interface which is common on most mobile devices provides separate wires for microphone signal e.g. input and a speaker signal e.g. output and a third wire for a common reference. A four wire interface is essentially two half duplex two wire interfaces having a first pair of wires for the microphone and a second pair of wires for the speaker signal.

The acoustic interface may consist of several embodiments as well. In one embodiment both the mobile device and the target device have separate microphones and speakers. In this embodiment half and full duplex transceiving is possible using Frequency Division Multiplexing FDM wherein different frequencies are assigned to the target system s transmission than to the mobile system s transmission. This arrangement allows for both systems to be transmitting data simultaneously albeit on different audio or low ultrasonic frequencies and receiving on the corresponding frequencies. Selection of the frequency assignments must only consider the precision of the bandpass filters and harmonic cross talk. Or in other embodiments a half duplex communication scheme can be realized. And in other embodiments the same physical transducer may be used both as a speaker acoustic output signal generator and a microphone input acoustic signal detector .

Turning to an arrangement of components according to at least one embodiment of the invention is shown. In this example a configurable target device is to be set up to communicate with a Wi Fi access point . In a first arrangement an audio cable 2 3 or 4 wire is connected from the headphone mic jack on a mobile device and connected to an audio jack on the target system . Then using an application program and a coordinating logical process on the target system described in the following paragraphs the proper configuration options such as network name security protocol and password or key are sent from the mobile device to the target system .

Because the configuration connection in this arrangement is not actually using the Wi Fi interface of the target system the target system can proceed to establish a connection with the access point while the configuration connection remains active. If the connection fails then the user can simply make adjustments and other trials to re attempt connection without having to leave configuration mode of the target device. And because the Wi Fi connection of the mobile device is not being used for the configuration operations the user may access the web to find frequently asked questions FAQ s watch demonstration videos etc. to assist him or her during the configuration process.

Similarly in another example of arrangement of components a mobile device can communicate wirelessly via acoustic coupling in the audio or low ultrasonic frequency range to the target system . As described in previous paragraphs the connection can be half or full duplex and may use a microphone speaker pair or a dual mode acoustic transducer. Configuration options and parameter values e.g. network name security protocol choice password or key etc. are transferred from the mobile device to the target system . Other than the connection being an acoustic coupling instead of a wired connection of the previous example all other functions can be the same including allowing the target device attempting to connect to the Wi Fi network and the Wi Fi connection of the mobile device being still available for the user to use for normal non configuration functions such as making telephone calls looking up information on the Internet etc.

In either of the foregoing examples an application program on the mobile device provides a combination of one or more of user prompts menus radio button lists slider controls input fields and selectable options in order to allow the user to select configuration values to be downloaded to the target device. Such operation may be entirely completed between the mobile device the target device and the user.

In some other embodiments of the present invention it may be desirable or necessary to involve a server as shown in in the configuration process. There are many advantages to this approach. The server may provide the prompts and screens such as voice prompts to the user via a mobile device over a network such as the Internet and intranet a cellular telephone network or even over a plain old telephone service POTS system. When the server has collected enough information from the user such as network name security option and password or key it can then format the data and transmit it from the server over the network to the mobile device or over the configuration connection or to the target system. Again the target system s Wi Fi interface is still available during configuration to attempt connection to the access point but in this arrangement the mobile device does not need to contain an application with the configuration data locally stored or if it is running an application it can be a light application sufficient to relay information between the server and the target device.

An additional advantage of this server enhanced arrangement is that a human assistant can use a terminal to assist or authorize in the configuration process thereby providing a higher level of support especially for more complex configuration operations.

Referring now to and example set of coordinating logical processes according to the present invention are shown which are compatible with the foregoing embodiment descriptions. The left column of steps is performed by the target system for configuration preferably by a processor under software or firmware control. The right column of steps is performed by the mobile system which has a greater or more capable user interface than the target system also preferably by a processor under software or firmware control.

The target system monitors one or both of the audio jack 3.55 mm or similar and the acoustic input device microphone for the presence of a cable plug in the jack or the presence of a connection tone . Other configuration initiation events such as the push of a button or the initial powering up of the target system may also suffice to proceed to step . Simultaneously the audio patch cable 3.55 or similar is installed in the audio jack of the mobile device and the audio jack of the target system or the user initiates the mobile device to initiate a configuration connection which produces a connection tone at the mobile device s acoustic output device . The mobile device waits for a response from the target system before it proceeds.

Upon making the basic connection physical and mod demod through the audio patch cable or the acoustic through the air coupling the target system and the mobile system validate each other such as by exchanging a make model and serial number and optionally a security key. After this validation the mobile device then prepares the configuration parameters and values in several different manners. For example in the scenario of configuring a Wi Fi interface on the target system the mobile system can initially configure the target s Wi Fi interface to search for available networks which are broadcasting their network names and can collect those names from the target system for the user to see and select. Or if the mobile system has a Wi Fi interface of its own it can also scan for network names which are being broadcast. In another approach such as connecting to a Wi Fi network which is not broadcasting its name or where the desired network control parameters are already known the mobile system can prepare the parameters optionally prompting and collecting choices from the user by relaying prompts and responses to and from a remote server or automatically without engaging the capabilities of the target system.

When the configuration parameters and values are ready they are sent to the waiting target system from the mobile device such as by FSK modulation of the data values in an audio range or low ultrasonic range and optionally including encryption packetizing and error detection and correction.

When the target system has received the configuration parameters and values it attempts to implement the configuration such as by configuring its Wi Fi interface and attempting to log into a Wi Fi network as previously discussed. Meanwhile the mobile device and optionally the server await the results of the configuration attempt.

If the configuration attempt is unsuccessful then new parameters and values can be prepared and sent optionally based on any error codes returned from the target system which is repeated until the configuration attempt is successful or the configuration mode is terminated otherwise.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable media having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming languages or a conventional procedural programming language. The program code may execute entirely on one computer or distributed over multiple computers.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to process illustrations of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of each process diagram and that combinations of blocks can be realized by computer program instructions executed by one or more processor. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function or action specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The preceding paragraphs have set forth example logical processes according to the present invention which when coupled with processing hardware embody systems according to the present invention and which when coupled with tangible computer readable memory devices embody computer program products according to the related invention.

Regarding computers for executing the logical processes set forth herein it will be readily recognized by those skilled in the art that a variety of computers are suitable and will become suitable as memory processing and communications capacities of computers and portable devices increases. In such embodiments the operative invention includes the combination of the programmable computing platform and the programs together. In other embodiments some or all of the logical processes may be committed to dedicated or specialized electronic circuitry such as Application Specific Integrated Circuits or programmable logic devices.

The present invention may be realized for many different processors used in many different computing platforms. illustrates a generalized computing platform such as common and well known computing platforms such as Personal Computers web servers such as an IBM iSeries server and portable devices such as personal digital assistants and smart phones running a popular operating systems such as Microsoft Windows or IBM AIX UNIX LINUX Google Android Apple iOS and others may be employed to execute one or more application programs to accomplish the computerized methods described herein. Whereas these computing platforms and operating systems are well known an openly described in any number of textbooks websites and public open specifications and recommendations diagrams and further details of these computing systems in general without the customized logical processes of the present invention are readily available to those ordinarily skilled in the art.

Many such computing platforms but not all allow for the addition of or installation of application programs which provide specific logical functionality and which allow the computing platform to be specialized in certain manners to perform certain jobs thus rendering the computing platform into a specialized machine. In some closed architectures this functionality is provided by the manufacturer and may not be modifiable by the end user.

The hardware portion of a computing platform typically includes one or more processors accompanied by sometimes specialized co processors or accelerators such as graphics accelerators and by suitable computer readable memory devices RAM ROM disk drives removable memory cards etc. . Depending on the computing platform one or more network interfaces may be provided as well as specialty interfaces for specific applications. If the computing platform is intended to interact with human users it is provided with one or more user interface devices such as display s keyboards pointing devices speakers etc. And each computing platform requires one or more power supplies battery AC mains solar etc. .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof unless specifically stated otherwise.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

It should also be recognized by those skilled in the art that certain embodiments utilizing a microprocessor executing a logical process may also be realized through customized electronic circuitry performing the same logical process or processes.

It will be readily recognized by those skilled in the art that the foregoing example embodiments do not define the extent or scope of the present invention but instead are provided as illustrations of how to make and use at least one embodiment of the invention. The following claims define the extent and scope of at least one invention disclosed herein.

