---

title: System, method, and computer program for preserving service continuity in a network function virtualization (NFV) based communication network
abstract: A system, method, and computer program product are provided for preserving service continuity in a Network Function Virtualization based (NFV-based) communication network. In use, a first virtual network function (VNF) instance associated with a first VNF in a first hardware unit in a Network Function Virtualization based (NFV-based) communication network is identified. Additionally, a second VNF instance on a second hardware unit is instantiated, the second VNF instance being compatible with the first VNF instance. Further, communication directed to the first VNF instance is diverted to the second VNF instance on the second hardware unit, in response to initiating the second VNF instance on a second hardware unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09384028&OS=09384028&RS=09384028
owner: Amdocs Software Systems Limited
number: 09384028
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20141216
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 918 597 filed Dec. 19 2013 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to telecommunications and or data communications and more particularly to network function virtualization NFV of telecommunications networks.

Network Function Virtualization is a term or a name of a proposed architecture of telecom services as published by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI in a series of documents available from the ETSI website. NFV uses generic hardware platform and software adapted for the generic hardware platform. Thus NFV creates a network much more flexible and dynamic than a legacy communication network. In NFV based networks a Virtual Network Function VNF decouples the software implementation of the network function from the infrastructure resources it runs on by virtualization. A network service is based on one or more VNFs and or Physical Network Functions PNFs their interconnections and chaining definitions. The VNFs can be executed on almost any generic hardware processing facility. Therefore VNFs may be installed removed and moved between hardware facilities much more easily less costly and thus more frequently.

The flexibility of the NFV based network enhances the means available for optimizing the network s capacity and performance. However current techniques for preserving service continuity in such networks are limited.

A system method and computer program product are provided for preserving service continuity in a Network Function Virtualization based NFV based communication network. In use a first virtual network function VNF instance associated with a first VNF in a first hardware unit in a Network Function Virtualization based NFV based communication network is identified. Additionally a second VNF instance on a second hardware unit is instantiated the second VNF instance being compatible with the first VNF instance. Further communication directed to the first VNF instance is diverted to the second VNF instance on the second hardware unit in response to initiating the second VNF instance on a second hardware unit.

As shown a first virtual network function VNF instance associated with a first VNF in a first hardware unit in an NFV based communication network is identified. See operation .

Additionally a second VNF instance on a second hardware unit is instantiated the second VNF instance being compatible with the first VNF instance. See operation .

Further communication directed to the first VNF instance is diverted to the second VNF instance on the second hardware unit in response to initiating the second VNF instance on a second hardware unit. See operation . Moreover the method may be implemented such that continuity of a service associated with the first VNF instance is preserved i.e. not interrupted .

In one embodiment the method may further include deactivating the first VNF instance in response to diverting the communication. Additionally a second VNF may be deployed to the second hardware unit where the second VNF is compatible with the first VNF. In the context of the present description the term compatible may indicate the same or having the same or similar functionality.

According to another embodiment there is provided a system method and computer program product for disabling initiation of a new instance of a virtual network function in a processing facility before migrating an instance of the virtual network function from the processing facility initiating an instance of a virtual network function in a first processing facility before deactivating an instance of the virtual network function in a second processing facility migrating an instance of a virtual network function from a first processing facility to a second processing facility before deactivating the instance of a the virtual network function in the first processing facility and diverting communication addressed to a first instance of a virtual network function in a first processing facility to a second instance of the virtual network function in second processing facility before deactivating the first instance.

According to another embodiment there is provided a system method and computer program product for preserving service continuity in an NFV based communication network where the first processing facility and the second processing facility are the same processing facility.

According to another embodiment there is provided a system method and computer program product for preserving service continuity in an NFV based communication network additionally including one or more of the steps of initiating a preventive maintenance activity related to the virtual network function initiating an optimization activity related to the virtual network function initiating a product replacement activity related to the virtual network function.

According to another embodiment there is provided a system method and computer program product for preserving service continuity in an NFV based communication network additionally including one or more of the steps of deactivating a virtual network function in a first processing facility only after all instances of the virtual network function are migrated from the first processing facility to a second processing facility replacing a virtual network function in a first processing facility only after all instances of the virtual network function are migrated from the first processing facility to a second processing facility and updating a virtual network function in a first processing facility only after all instances of the virtual network function are migrated from the first processing facility to a second processing facility.

According to another embodiment there is provided a system method and computer program product for preserving service continuity in an NFV based communication network additionally including one or more of the steps of deactivating a first virtual network function in a first processing facility only after all communications incoming to the virtual network function are diverted from the first processing facility to a second virtual network function in a second processing facility replacing a first virtual network function in a first processing facility only after all communications incoming to the virtual network function are diverted from the first processing facility to a second virtual network function in a second processing facility and updating a first virtual network function in a first processing facility only after all communications incoming to the virtual network function are diverted from the first processing facility to a second virtual network function in a second processing facility.

According to another embodiment there is provided a system method and computer program product for preserving service continuity in an NFV based communication network additionally including one or more of the steps of deactivating a first processing facility only after all instances of virtual network functions operative in the processing facility are migrated from the first processing facility to a second processing facility replacing a first processing facility only after all instances of virtual network functions operative in the processing facility are migrated from the first processing facility to a second processing facility and updating a first processing facility only after all instances of virtual network functions operative in the processing facility are migrated from the first processing facility to a second processing facility.

In the context of the present description the terms network and communication network refer to the hardware and software connecting one or more communication elements including wireline networks wireless networks and or combinations thereof.

The terms network function virtualization NFV and virtual network function NFV are described in a series of documents published by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI and available from the ETSI website. The term virtual network function or feature VNF refers to a particular implementation of a function a feature or a service provided by the network internally within the network or externally to a customer subscriber end user a terminal or a server. A VNF may include the software program implementation of the function or feature or service. The term VNF instance VNF I refers to a particular process or task executing the VNF program by a particular virtual machine or processor or computing facility and or used by a particular customer or subscriber end user terminal or server etc. .

The term service refers to any type of use such as a use case that an NFV based communication network may offer or provide to one or more communication elements. A service may include switching data or content between any number of elements providing content from a server to a communication element or between servers securing and protecting communication and content processing content provided by the customer or by a third party providing backup and redundancy etc. A service may be using partial functionality of a VNF or may include one or more VNFs and or one or more VNF instances forming a service sub network or interconnection model . In the context of the present description the term chain may refer to such service sub network such as a particular plurality of VNFs and or VNF instances associated with particular service type or a service instance.

The term deployment when referring to hardware elements including processing elements memory elements storage elements connectivity communication elements etc. refer to the configuration or topology of these hardware elements creating the NFV based network. The term deployment when referring to software elements such a VNFs and VNF instances refers to the association between such software elements and hardware elements.

The term deployment optimizations refers to association of software and hardware elements in a manner that satisfies a particular set of requirements and or rules such as load related and performance related requirements or a manner that makes a better use of a particular hardware deployment such as by reducing operational cost.

The terms service deployment optimization or service optimization or chain optimization refer to optimizing the deployment of a service chain i.e. optimizing the deployment of one or more VNF instances making a particular service. The terms chain optimization and service optimization may thus be used interchangeably.

The term session refers to a communication connection between two or more entities that persists for a period of time during which data may be exchanged there between. A session may be implemented and managed by a session layer in the corresponding network protocol. The term session may include a network session and a logical session. The network session may be associated with the devices used to communicate while the logical session may be associated with the communicating parties users and may persist regardless of the communication means that the parties are using.

The term service continuity includes and applies to the terms session continuity and streaming continuity . Streaming refers to streaming media session or service such as sound including voice video multimedia animation etc. The term service usually applies to a group of VNFs or the functionality provided by the group of VNFs but may also apply to a single VNF or the functionality provided by the VNF . The term continuity indicates that the session or the service is not interrupted or that an interruption is short enough that a user is not aware of such interruption or that the interruption does not cause any loss of data or that the loss is handled in acceptable manner e.g. a few packets of speech lost but the conversation can continue etc. .

The term availability or service availability refers to a level of the service or a characteristic of the service in which the service provider should provide the service albeit possible hardware or software faults. For example the service provider may obligate to the customer to provide a particular level of processing power communication features such as bandwidth latency and jitter database consistency etc. Such level or characteristic of the service should be available to the customer even when a hardware component or a software component providing the service do not function properly. Providing availability may therefore require additional resources such as backup resources and or mirroring. Hence availability may also refer to the terms fault recovery and redundancy .

The term fault recovery refers to the process of recovering one or more of the network s services functions and features after a fault whether caused by a hardware malfunction a system crash a software bug or a security breech or fault. A hardware malfunction includes but is not limited to any type of inadequate performance associated with for example power supply processing units memory storage transmission line etc. The term fault recovery also applies to recovering the functionality of one or more VNFs or VNF instances with respect to any of the above. The terms security breech or security fault may be used interchangeably.

The term redundancy refers to any type of component of the network that is fully or partly duplicated provided in standby mode or otherwise available to replace another component of the network when that other component stops functioning properly or otherwise indicates some kind of fault. Redundancy may apply but is not limited to hardware software data and or content.

More illustrative information will now be set forth regarding various optional architectures and uses in which the foregoing method may or may not be implemented per the desires of the user. It should be strongly noted that the following information is set forth for illustrative purposes and should not be construed as limiting in any manner. Any of the following features may be optionally incorporated with or without the exclusion of other features described.

The present embodiments comprise a system method and computer program product for preserving service continuity in a communication network using network function virtualization NFV and more particularly but not exclusively to managing the migration of a virtual network function VNF in NFV based communication networks while preserving service continuity.

The principles and operation of a system method and computer program product for preserving service continuity in an NFV based network according to embodiments of the present invention may be better understood with reference to the following drawings and accompanying description.

It is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangement of the components set forth in the following description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of other embodiments or of being practiced or carried out in various ways. Also it is to be understood that the phraseology and terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.

In the context of this document an element of a drawing that is not described within the scope of the drawing and is labeled with a numeral that has been described in a previous drawing has the same use and description as in the previous drawings. Similarly an element that is identified in the text by a numeral that does not appear in the drawing described by the text has the same use and description as in the previous drawings where it was described.

The drawings associated with this document may not be to any scale. Different figures may use different scales and different scales can be used even within the same drawing for example different scales for different views of the same object or different scales for the two adjacent objects.

The purpose of embodiments of the present invention is to provide service continuity while migrating VNFs in an NFV based network. Migration of VNFs applies to several operations carried in a communication network such as network optimization preventive maintenance and product replacement. In the case of network optimization a VNF is moved migrated from a first computing facility to a second computing facility to improve the overall network performance. In the case of preventive maintenance a VNF is moved migrated from a first computing facility to a backup computing facility to enable maintenance activity in the first computing facility. In the case of product replacement the functionality of a VNF is moved migrated from a first VNF instance using the replaced product to a second VNF instance using the replacing product.

The term computing facility relates to any type of computing device including but not limited to a processing device a memory device a storage device and or a communication device including cloud based infrastructure. A product replacement may refer to products from different vendors different products from the same vendor different releases of the same product product upgrades etc.

A method system and computer program product for providing service continuity while migrating VNFs in an NFV based network is described herein in terms of a method and a system for automating preventive maintenance in NFV based communication networks. It is appreciated that providing service continuity while migrating VNFs in an NFV based network in other cases such as network optimization and product replacement is performed using a similar method and system etc.

Preventive maintenance applies to any action or activity performed in the network in anticipation of an adverse event effect or situation. The preventive maintenance prevents the occurrence of such event effect or situation or any possible degradation of the network performance. Except for preventing unexpected degradation of the network performance preventive maintenance is considered less costly than fault maintenance. Network Function Virtualization creates a network much more dynamic than a legacy communication network. Network functions are installed removed and moved between hardware facilities much more frequently and thus managing preventive maintenance becomes more difficult on one hand and more critical on the other hand.

Lifecycle management or workflow refers to a series of actions executed with regards to a particular virtual network function or feature or a group of VNFs such as for example a group of VNFs comprising a service or a component of a service. Such actions may be for example onboarding the VNF provisioning the VNF scaling the VNF preventive maintenance fault maintenance tearing the VNF and deboarding of the VNF discontinuation .

One purpose of lifecycle management is to schedule and execute preventive maintenance activities without affecting the rendered services. Actions or activities of preventive maintenance are typically scheduled ahead of the anticipated event to enable graceful tearing of services while maintaining session continuity. Preventive maintenance activities are costly and therefore their frequency should be reduced to the minimum. Preventive maintenance activities require network resources and thus may have adverse effect on the network performance. Therefore the preventive maintenance activities should be scheduled to periods of low load on the relevant resources. Such periods should make available the required resources for the load and time as required by the particular preventive maintenance activity.

Preventive maintenance refers to hardware and software and the effect between them. For example the rate of hardware aging namely the probability of a hardware fault due to usage may depend on the type of software and the activity. As a hardware component may be associated with several software components and various number of instances processes of the same type of software and vice versa there is an intricate relationship between hardware and software. In an NFV based network this relationship changes continuously.

Therefore preventive maintenance activities are typically performed according to the statistical data collected and analyzed for the hardware components and in an NFV based network also for any virtual network function feature VNF and any instance of network virtualization function.

Lifecycle management in NFV environment is different from lifecycle management in legacy networks due to the flexibility of the NFV environment in allocating VNFs to processing resources. Therefore lifecycle management in a legacy network is quite stable over time while lifecycle management in NFV environment is changing with the activation of every VNF instance. A method for continuous adaptation of the lifecycle plan to the changing NFV environment is therefore required.

As shown in at least one NFV based network is provided. The NFV based communication network includes an NFV management system an NFV orchestration NFV O module and a preventive maintenance module according to one embodiment.

In the context of the present network architecture the NFV based network may take any form including but not limited to a telecommunications network a local area network LAN a wireless network a wide area network WAN such as the Internet peer to peer network cable network etc. While only one network is shown it should be understood that two or more similar or different NFV based networks may be provided.

The NFV based network may include one or more computation facilities each including one or more hardware units and being interconnected by communication links to form the NFV based network . At least one of the computation facilities may include the NFV management system . The NFV management system may include the NFV O module and the preventive maintenance module .

The NFV O module may be executed by one or more processors or servers such as computation facilities of theNFV based network . The NFV O module may be executed as an NFV O instance or component. The NFV O module may therefore include a plurality of NFV O instances or components as will be further explained below.

The preventive maintenance module may be a part or a component of the NFV O module . However the preventive maintenance module the NFV O module and the NFV management system may be separate software programs provided by different vendors. In one embodiment the NFV based network may even have a plurality of any of the NFV management systems the NFV O modules and or the preventive maintenance module .

A plurality of devices are communicatively coupled to the NFV based network . For example a server computer and a computer or terminal may be coupled to the NFV based network for communication purposes. Such end user computer or terminal may include a desktop computer a lap top computer a tablet computer and or any other type of logic or data processing device. Still yet various other devices may be coupled to the NFV based network including a personal digital assistant PDA device a mobile phone device a television e.g. cable aerial mobile or satellite television etc. 2 etc. These devices may be owned and or operated by end users subscribers and or customers of the NFV based network . Others of the devices such as administration station may be owned and or operated by the operator of the NFV based network .

A network administrator may supervise at least some aspects of the operation of the NFV based network by controlling an NFV infrastructure including the NFV management system the NFV O and the preventive maintenance module .

In one embodiment the hardware unit may represent a computing facility of or a part of a computing facility . The hardware unit may include a computing machine. The term computing machine relates to any type or combination of computing devices or computing related units including but not limited to a processing device a memory device a storage device and or a communication device.

The hardware unit may therefore be a network server and the computing facility may be a plurality of network servers or a data center including cloud based infrastructure. As an option the hardware unit may be implemented in the context of any of the devices of the NFV based network of and or and in any desired communication environment.

Each hardware unit or computing machine computing device computing related unit and or hardware component etc. including each communication link between such hardware units may be associated with one or more performance type and a respective performance rating or value where the hardware unit and or communication link is operative to provide the performance value. Performance types are for example processing power cash memory capacity regular memory capacity e.g. RAM dynamic or volatile memory etc. non volatile memory e.g. such as flash memory etc. capacity storage capacity power cooling bandwidth bitrate latency jitter bit error rate and packet loss etc. Virtual machines may run on top of the hardware unit and a VNF may be run on one or more of such virtual machines.

The hardware unit may be operative to provide computing infrastructure and resources for any type and or instance of software component executed within the NFV based network of . In this regard the hardware unit may be operative to process any of the processes described herein including but not limited to any NFV related software component and or process. The hardware unit is operative to process virtual network functions VNFs VNF instances network function virtualization orchestration NFV O software modules and functions data center management software and or cloud management systems CMS etc.

In various embodiments the hardware unit may include at least one processor unit one or more memory units e.g. random access memory RAM a non volatile memory such as a Flash memory etc. one or more storage units e.g. including a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disk drive etc. one or more communication units one or more graphic processors and displays and one or more communication buses connecting the various units devices.

The hardware unit may also include one or more computer programs or computer control logic algorithms which may be stored in any of the memory units and or storage units . Such computer programs when executed enable the hardware unit to perform various functions e.g. as set forth in the context of etc. The memory units and or the storage units and or any other storage are possible examples of tangible computer readable media.

It is appreciated that computer program may include any of the NFV management system the NFV O and or the preventive maintenance module of .

In one embodiment the NFV management system may include an NFV O module and a preventive maintenance module . In one embodiment the NFV O module and the preventive maintenance module may represent the NFV O module and the preventive maintenance module of respectively. The NFV management system may include one or more NFV O modules . In various embodiments each of the NFV O modules may include orchestration and workflow management that is responsible for managing i.e. orchestrating and executing all NFV O processes including inbound and or outbound communication and interfaces.

The NFV management system may include a deployment optimization module that enables a user to devise automatic mechanisms for network optimizations. The deployment optimization module may operate these mechanisms automatically and continuously to optimize the distribution of VNFs and their VNF instances in real time or near real time by migrating VNFs and VNF instances e.g. VNF instances of etc. between hardware units e.g. hardware units of etc. .

The NFV management system may also include a chain optimization module . The chain optimization module may be a part of deployment optimization module and may enable a user to devise automatic mechanisms for optimizing the deployment of chains or groups of VNFs and VNF instances. A service provided by an NFV based network is typically made of a particular chain or group of particular VNFs and their respective VNF instances. The chain optimization module optimizes the deployment of chains or groups of services between hardware units according to the requirements and specifications associated with and or adapted to the particular service or chain or a group.

The chain optimization module may operate these mechanisms automatically and continuously to optimize in real time the operation of chains or groups of the VNFs and their VNF instances by re planning their distribution among hardware units and optionally also by migrating the VNFs and associated VNF instances between hardware units.

The NFV management system may also include a service fulfillment module that manages service and resource e.g. VNF instance lifecycle activities as part of the process and orchestration activities. This may include on boarding initiation e.g. instantiation installation and configuration scaling termination software update e.g. of a running VNF etc. test environment and or rollback procedure. Additionally the service fulfillment module may also provide decomposition of an order to multiple network services and the activation of such network service as a single VNF instance or as a chain of VNF instances.

Order decomposition includes translating business orders into a network oriented service implementation plan. For example a business order may be decomposed into a plurality of functions some of which may be provided by different software programs or modules e.g. such as various VNFs instantiated as a plurality of VNF instances across one or more data centers. Performing order decomposition the service fulfillment module may consult the deployment optimization module for the best deployment option to customer order in a given network and resource condition. Performing order decomposition the service fulfillment module may then initiate the service including all its components. Order decomposition may be performed in several locations across an NFV O hierarchy. For example initial decomposition may be performed in the root of the NFV O and then further decomposition may be performed in the relevant data centers.

In one embodiment an activation and provisioning module may provide the plan for activation and provisioning of the service to the orchestration and workflow management . The activation and provisioning module may also provide feedback on fulfilment status to an upper layer. This upper layer may include the business support services BSS .

The NFV management system may also include an assurance module and a service management module capable of gathering real time data on network elements status and creating a consolidated view of services and network health. The assurance module includes assurance functionality and may interact with the service management module to perform assurance related lifecycle management procedures. Lifecycle management can be also triggered by other modules policies manual intervention or from the VNFs themselves etc. The assurance module and the service management module may also trigger events associated with lifecycle management and faults. The assurance module and the service management module may monitor the health of the network and may execute fault recovery activities.

The assurance module and the service management module provide the ability to monitor services status and performance according to the required criteria. The assurance module and the service management module may also interact with the network infrastructure e.g. including computing storage and networking etc. to receive the required information analyze the information and act upon each incident according to the defined policy. The assurance module and the service management module are able to interact with analytics to enrich a policy assurance module. Interfaces may also be provided for implementation by an external system.

The NFV management system may also include a policy management module that enables a user to define and configure offline and or real time policy for controlling VNF and service related rules. The policy management module may contain the preconfigured policies and activities as well as selection rules for the NFV O process to determine the preferred policy or activity to be performed for a particular process event. The policy management may be multi layered including vendor policy service policy and operator policy etc. The policy mechanism may trigger the suitable policy layer vendor service operator .

The NFV management system may also include an administration module that provides an overall view of the network manual lifecycle management and intervention and manual system administration and configuration. The administration module may be operable to enable a user such as an administrator e.g. administrator of etc. to manage view and operate the NFV O system. The administration module may also provide a view of the network topology and services the ability to perform specific activities such as manual lifecycle management and changing service and connectivity configuration.

The NFV management system may also include an inventory management module that maintains a distributed view of deployed services and hardware resources. Inventory catalogues may reflect the current instantiation and allocation of the resources and services within the network mapped into products and or customer entities.

The NFV management system may also include a big data analytics module that analyzes network and service data to support network decisions involving services and subscribers to improve network performance based on actual usage patterns. The big data analytics module may also generate what if scenarios to support business oriented planning processes. Additionally the big data analytics module may function to analyze and evaluate the information for various planning aspects e.g. Virtual Network Capacity Planning Data Center Capacity Planning Value based planning Cost analysis for network deployment alternatives etc. deployment and management e.g. Guided Operator Recommendations What if scenario analysis and simulation application rapid elasticity and resource usage optimization etc. and may support business oriented planning processes.

The NFV management system may also include a catalog module may include records defining various aspects of the network such as products services and resources such as hardware units and VNFs e.g. a VNF directory etc. . The catalog module may include a collection of centralized hierarchical information repositories containing resource service and product definitions with their relationship versioning and or descriptors etc. Such records may include templates enabling a user such as an administrator to define particular network components such as resources products services etc. A resource template may define resources descriptors attributes activities procedures and or connectivity etc. A service template may define a service variation from resource building blocks. A product template may define parameters of a sellable product e.g. prices rating etc. based on service composition e.g. in one embodiment this may be part of a BSS catalogue .

The inventory management module the big data analytics module and or the catalog module may support multiple data centers multiple CMSs and provide a centralized view across the infrastructure. The inventory management module the big data analytics module and or the catalog module may also support hybrid networks and services maintaining both physical and virtual resources.

The NFV management system may also include an accounting and licensing module that may be operable to record and manage network software usage data for commercial purposes including licensing accounting billing and reconciliation of services with subscribers and providers. The accounting and licensing module may manage licensing and usage of virtual network applications including the ability to support complex rating schemes based on various parameters such as CPU memory data etc. The accounting and licensing module may enable users to define the pricing of particular VNF modules and provide settlement with vendors. The accounting and licensing module may also enable the evaluation of internal costs of services provided within the network for calculating return on investment ROI .

The NFV management system may also include a fault recovery module otherwise named disaster recovery planning module or DRP etc. that enables a user to plan and manage disaster recovery procedures for the NFV O and or the entire network.

The NFV management system may also include a security management module that provides the authentication authorization and accounting services of application security across the network. The security management module may include for example an authentication module and function. In one embodiment the authentication module and function e.g. including identity management etc. may authenticate the identity of each user defined in the system. Each user may have a unique user identity and password. The system may support password based authentication with flexible password policy. Integration with external authentication providers may be done via additional system enhancements. The authorization module and function may support a role based access control RBAC mechanism where each user is assigned with one or more roles according to the business needs based on the least privileges concept e.g. standard or administrator roles . In one embodiment the accounting and licensing module may provide an audit of security events such as authentication or login events.

As an option the security management module may use rules to protect sensitive information. For example such rules may be used to ensure the data accessed is used for the specific purposes for which it was collected sensitive information is encrypted when in storage transit and masked truncated on display and logs and that the entire security system is deployed in the customer s intranet network i.e. behind network infrastructure measures in an independent domain etc.

In one embodiment the NFV management system may further include a Secure Development Life Cycle SDLC module that ensures that security aspects are handled during a project s life cycle such as security design security testing etc.

As shown further in the NFV management system may include a service planning module . The service planning module may be used by a communication service provider CSP sales representative enterprise and or technician as part of selling engagement process with enterprise SMB customers.

The service planning module may also provide the ability to interact with catalogues customer data network and ordering systems to provide online network service proposals for the enterprise customers with ability to quote update the proposal validate the serviceability and network inventory and once done provide the service order for activation using the northbound interface.

The preventive maintenance module may also be part of the NFV O module . The preventive maintenance module is operable to identify a first VNF instance associated with a first VNF in a first hardware unit initiate a second VNF instance on a second hardware unit the second VNF instance being compatible with the first VNF instance and divert communication directed to the first VNF instance to the second VNF instance on the second hardware unit in response to initiating the second VNF instance on the second hardware unit. Moreover the preventive maintenance module may implement functionality described in the context of etc.

The preventive maintenance module or the NFV O module may be operable to preserve service continuity when migrating a VNF or a group of VNFs or a service between hardware units and or when migrating a VNF functionality or the functionality of a group of VNFs or a service between different VNFs e.g. between VNF s of different VNF vendors .

The NFV management system may also include east west APIs that include various domains activities interfaces including an information source to a big data repository and interaction capability with a physical network system OSS .

Northbound APIs provides application programming interfaces APIs to various external software packages such as business support system BSS for service order fulfilment cancel and update activities status notification resource inventory view monitoring system assurance system service planning tool administration tool for system view and configuration and big data repository etc.

Further the southbound APIs may provide APIs for external software packages such as CMS including service and VNFs lifecycle activities receiving from the infrastructure status and monitoring information for upstream system and activities e.g. assurance an SDN Controller or other connectivity system to configure inter and intra data center connectivity an EMS to configure the VNF and a VNF for a direct configuration.

As shown in the NFV based network may include hardware units connected via transmission lines and VNFs implemented as software programs installed in hardware units . Some of the hardware units may be directly connected to a customer. The customer may be a subscriber an end user or an organization represented herein as a terminal or a server or a plurality of terminals and or servers . The NFV based network may also include an NFV management system an NFV orchestration NFV O and a preventive maintenance module which may all represent elements described in the context of the previous figures etc. .

As shown further in several typically different VNFs may be installed in the same hardware unit . Additionally the same VNF may be installed in different hardware units .

A VNF may be executed by a processor of the hardware unit in the form of a VNF instance . Therefore a particular VNF installed in a particular hardware unit may be incarnated in e.g. initiated executed as etc. any number of VNF instances . The VNF instances may be independent of each other. Additionally each VNF instance may serve different terminals and or servers . The NFV based network connects to and between communication terminal devices that may be operated by one or more customers subscribers and or end users.

It is appreciated that a network operator may manage one or more services deployed in the customer s premises. Therefore some of the hardware units may reside within the premises of the network operator while other hardware units may reside in the customer s premises. Similarly a server such as server computer of may reside in the premises of the network operator or in the customer s premises. Consequently when the network operator provides and or manages one or more services for a customer s terminal devices such as a server computer the NFV based network of the network operator may directly manage the VNFs providing the services and their VNF instances .

In such situation the NFV based network may manage the services irrespectively of the location of the terminal devices e.g. the server computer etc. whether in the premises of the network operator or in the customer s premises. In other words the NFV based network may be managing the VNFs and the VNF instances providing the services as well as the terminal devices e.g. the server computer etc. being co located within the same computing device e.g. the hardware unit etc. whether in the premises of the network operator or in the customer s premises or in a commercial cloud or any other place.

A service provided by the communication network may be implemented using one or more VNFs. For example the service may be a group or a chain of interconnected VNFs. The VNFs making the group or the service may be installed and executed by a single processor by several processors on the same rack within several racks in the same data center or by processors distributed within two or more data centers. In some cases chain optimization may be employed by optimizing the deployment of a service in a communication network using network function virtualization and to optimizing the deployment of a group or a chain of virtual network functions in the NFV based network . Therefore the term chain optimization refers to the planning and or managing of the deployment of VNFs making a chain or a group of VNFs providing a particular service.

For example shows a first service including the VNFs and their respective VNF instances and and a thick line. In this example the group or chain of the VNFs making first service are connected as a chain of VNFs . However the VNFs making a service may be connected in any conceivable form such as a star tree root tree branch mesh etc. including combinations thereof. It is noted that the VNFs may be executed by two or more VNF instances such as VNF .

The deployment of the group or chain of the VNFs making the first service is therefore limited by constraints such as the capacity of the communication link bandwidth and or latency delay .

A VNF may have a list of requirements or specifications such as processing power cash memory capacity regular memory capacity e.g. RAM dynamic or volatile memory etc. non volatile memory e.g. such as flash memory etc. capacity storage capacity power requirements cooling requirements etc. A particular VNF instance providing a particular function e.g. to a particular customer entity etc. may have further requirements or modified requirements for example associated with a particular quality of service QoS or service level agreement SLA . Such requirements may include maximum latency or delay average latency and maximum variance latency jitter maximal allowed packet loss etc. Other requirements may include service availability redundancy backup provisions for roll back and or recovery fault tolerance and or fail safe operation etc.

A service made of a chain or a group of VNFs and their VNF instances may have a similar list of requirements or specifications covering the service as a whole. Therefore such requirements or specifications may imply affect or include requirements or specifications regarding communication links between the VNFs and or the VNF instances . Such requirements or specifications may include bandwidth latency bit error rate and or packet loss etc. Such communication requirements or specifications may further impose deployment limitations or constraints requiring particular VNFs and or VNF instances to reside in the same data center or within the same rack or even in the same computing device for example sharing memory or being executed by the same processor. Security measures may add further requirements or specifications such as co location of some of the VNFs and or the VNF instances .

In the context of the NFV based network has a hierarchical structure. There may be at least four aspects of the hierarchical structure of the NFV based network . The networking or traffic aspect refers to the arrangement of the transmission lines between the hardware units . The processing aspect refers to the arrangement of the hardware units . The software aspect refers to the arrangement of the VNFs . The operational aspect refers to the arrangement of the VNF instances .

One aspect of the optimization process in an NFV based network is that it may be based on real time needs rather than long term statistically anticipated needs. One potential limitation on network reconfiguration in NFV based networks is that network configuration does not result in a deterioration beyond acceptable level of any of the current services. The NFV deployment module e.g. module of etc. may function to enable and manage migration of services between the hardware units the VNFs and the VNF instances in real time without affecting or with a minimal effect on the availability of a service and while securing service and session continuity.

In the context of the current description the term continuous means that the deployment optimization module and or a chain optimization module e.g. the chain optimization module of etc. performs the relevant optimization task or process in run time or real time or online or on the fly or repetitively and without adversely affecting the network s functionality and its services.

Unlike a legacy network the NFV based network may have two topologies the topology of the hardware devices and the topology of the VNFs the distribution of VNFs among the hardware devices . The topology of the hardware network is relatively stable while the VNF topology can be optimized in real time. Another benefit of the NFV based network is that modifying the software topology e.g. the distribution of VNFs among the hardware devices is much less costly than any modification of the hardware topology. However any modification of the network has its cost including the cost of making such modification possible. Added cost may result from the need to process the modification of the topology and the re distribution of VNF instances and to maintain excess resources for such purpose.

Thus in some cases it may be desired to localize the NFV O and particularly the deployment optimization processes associated with the deployment optimization module and the chain optimization module to reduce the cost and simultaneously to secure the possibility to expand the scope of the network managed by these processes if needed.

The distributed architecture of an NFV O enables faster response to local events on one hand and improved scalability on the other hand. In a distributed NFV O architecture decision processes are performed in self contained and local decision points closer to the customer and closer to the events e.g. such as network or security faults etc. .

The hierarchy of a distributed NFV O can be viewed as a tree of two component types a core component and a leaf component . The NFV O core component can be a child of another core component and or a parent of one or more core components or leaf components . A leaf component cannot be a parent of a core component or a leaf component .

Orchestration parameters managed by a particular leaf component or core component may be reported in real time to the supervising parent core component . In addition to the supervision this continuous updating process enables the supervising component to provide backup and or support recovery processes associated with hardware and or software faults as well as security faults and or breeches.

To provide redundancy a leaf component may be supervised by two or more core components and child core components may be supervised by two or more parent core components . The orchestration parameters managed by a particular core component or leaf component may also be mirrored to the backup core components . Optionally the NFV O core components may have the same fully functional orchestration capabilities while leaf components may be limited to simple well defined and localized sub orchestration tasks and thus may provide a faster response to demands and changing load.

A cloud management system CMS is a software package managing one or more hardware units operating one or more VNFs and executing one or more VNF instances. A CMS can be managed by one or more leaf components or core components or combinations thereof. A CMS can be located in the operator s premises or in the customer s premises or partly in both.

An NFV O component such as a core components or a leaf component typically orchestrates a particular predefined territory. The territory may be one or more cloud management systems one or more services one or more customers etc. Therefore there can be an overlap between territories of different NFV O components. For example one NFV O component may orchestrate a CMS another NFV O component may orchestrate a service that is at least partly provided by the same CMS and additionally a third NFV O component may orchestrate services for a particular customer connected to that same CMS .

If for any reason the first responder NFV O component cannot resolve the problem for example for lack of adequate or sufficient resources within the territory of the particular NFV O component the problem may be escalated above to the supervising or parent NFV O component.

The NFV O is a central component of the network as a system and thus may present a risk from a security perspective. For example an attack against the NFV O may result in a total network outage. Securing the NFV O is therefore a goal and a challenge. A distributed NFV O architecture enhances the network resilience endurance. When an attack on a particular instance of the NFV O is detected the NFV O instance may be isolated and its functionality may be transferred to one or more other NFV O instances.

Another aspect of the NFV O hierarchy is stratified granularity or resolution of the orchestration process. An NFV based network may include a very large number of hardware elements e.g. processors memory units storage units communication links etc. and an even larger number of VNFs and VNF instances. Each of the VNF instances may have a number of requirements e.g. such as processing power memory size storage size communication bandwidth latency and jitter etc. . Each of these hardware elements and software modules may produce a number of load values e.g. corresponding to their respective requirements .

All of this creates a large amount of data that should be processed continuously or repeatedly to determine possible adverse conditions e.g. a particular overload or a potential cost saving situation. Such situation may require deployment optimization e.g. the planning of a newly optimized deployment of VNF instances and redeployment e.g. implementing the optimized deployment . The NFV O hierarchy enables scalability of the redeployment optimization process by distributing the process in a hierarchical manner.

One optional aspect of hierarchical deployment optimization is that higher levels in the NFV O hierarchy processes deployment optimization in a coarser granularity or resolution while lower levels in the NFV O hierarchy processes deployment optimization in a finer granularity or resolution .

For example while a leaf component manages its part territory of the NFV based network in terms of particular hardware elements e.g. processors memory units storage units communication links etc and software elements e.g. VNFs and VNF instances a core component may manage its part territory of the NFV based network in terms of whole subordinate child core components or leaf components it supervises. Thus such parent core component may perform deployment optimization in terms of requirements and load values applied to whole subordinate child core components or leaf components .

A customer may use the services of several telecom operators. For example the customer may be an international company operating in several countries. Such a customer usually establishes a virtual private network VPN across this plurality of telecom operators. Considering that these operators now operate NFV based networks the customer may establish a service including a plurality of VNFs where different VNFs are part of different networks. Managing such inter operator VNF chains or services requires tight coordination across different NFV based networks.

Such coordination can be implemented using various techniques. For example the coordination may be implemented by enabling tight coordination between NFV Os of the different NFV based networks. As another example the coordination may be implemented by establishing an inter network NFV O module that manages one or more inter network VNF chains or services of a particular customer.

Optionally such inter network NFV O may supervise two or more child or leaf NFV O modules each within a particular NFV based network incorporating an NFV participating in the particular VNF chain or service. It is appreciated that NFV Os of different operators may be provided by different NFV O vendors.

In a first network configuration a single NFV O module may manage the deployment of VNFs and VNF instances throughout the entire NFV based network. A deployment optimization module e.g. and a chain optimization module of the NFV O module may continuously investigate the development of loads and provide alternative deployment plans. Consequently the NFV O module may redeploy VNFs and VNF instances and reallocate network resources accordingly.

Deployment optimization is indicated when one part of the NFV based network is over loaded or approaches an overload situation while another part of NFV based network is relatively idle. The redeployment migrates some of the network entities e.g. VNFs and VNF instances from the overloaded part of NFV based network to the relatively idle part of the NFV based network to free resources where needed mostly. Therefore the deployment optimization and redeployment activities may follow the changes of load distribution.

The preventive maintenance database is a data structure including a template database a deployment database a topology database and an activity database . The template database includes detailed records of hardware types and software types i.e. VNF templates . The template database and particularly the VNF templates may be part of a virtual function catalog.

The deployment database includes detailed records of hardware instances i.e. hardware units actually deployed in the network and software instances i.e. VNF instances as deployed in the network .

The topology database defines the topology of the NFV based network. The topology database may be part of or interface with a service view and topology module.

The activity database contains a record for each scheduled activity of preventive maintenance. Every record of the template database includes a list of all the faults associated with the respective hardware or software e.g. VNF component the fault frequency or mean time to fault MTTF or MTBF mean time between faults for each fault fault conditions or dependencies such as the dependency of the MTTF on values such as temperature and humidity value and period activation deactivation cycles of use rate of upgrade such as bug fixes etc. preventive maintenance activity required to prevent a particular fault of a particular VNF and resources associated with a preventive maintenance activity required to prevent a particular fault of a particular VNF type quantity and period Mean Time To Repair MTTR .

Every record of the deployment database includes network requirements e.g. SLAs associated with each hardware instance and VNF instances in use usage data e.g. type of load quantity and period associated with any particular fault of any particular hardware instance and VNF instances in use network behavior actual performance associated with each hardware instance and VNF instances in use and a type of preventive maintenance activity and the associated anticipated time by which the preventive maintenance activity should be performed.

These data structures can also be grouped as a hardware database of hardware types and instances and a software database of software VNF types and instances .

The topology database contains a record for each hardware instance unit and each VNF instance in the network. The record defines the location of the hardware instance or VNF instance the relations such as connectivity between the hardware instances between the VNF instances and between the VNF instances and hardware instances e.g. in which they are installed . Additionally at least one backup unit such as a hardware instance is defined for each hardware instance and VNF instance . When a hardware instance or a VNF instance are being repaired their functionality is moved to the backup unit.

Every record of the activity database includes the hardware instances or VNF instances for which preventive maintenance activity is scheduled the scheduled preventive maintenance activity the time of the scheduled preventive maintenance activity and its anticipated length and the backup unit scheduled to replace the maintained hardware instance or to host the maintained VNF instance .

The goal of the preventive maintenance procedure is to schedule preventive maintenance activities while preserving the network s performance while requiring minimum backup resources. The preventive maintenance procedure includes various modules e.g. processed executed concurrently .

For example the preventive maintenance procedure includes tracking module that tracks the network continuously to anticipate the preventive maintenance needs. The tracking module may be part of or receive data from assurance and a performance management module. The tracking module collects data for each type of hardware unit SDN module and VNF module as well as operating data for each instance of hardware unit SDN module and VNF module e.g. using the records of hardware instances and software VNF instances . The tracking module also calculates statistical data associated with the various faults as defined for each hardware unit SDN module and VNF module e.g. using the records of hardware types and VNF types .

Operating data refer to values such as load time of operation temperature and humidity cycles of operations including activation and deactivation consumption including memory consumption etc. The tracking module also tracks and calculates statistical data regarding the time it takes to prepare a unit or module for maintenance and the time it takes to complete the maintenance activity. According to the collected and calculated data the tracking module computes the period earliest time and latest time in which preventive maintenance should be performed for each type and for each instance of hardware unit SDN module and VNF module.

Planning module schedules preventive maintenance activities within the available resources so that the network s performance is secured typically in coordination with a service policy management module and with a deployment optimization module.

Activation module activates and or performs preventive maintenance activities according to their schedule as set by the planning module .

Restoration module restores services to their original configuration after all the relevant maintenance activities are completed.

Alarm module analyzes and anticipates potential critical situations and adverse events their causes and their priority.

In one embodiment the modules of the preventive maintenance procedure i.e. modules may communicate via a maintenance database .

Planning module schedules preventive maintenance activities to each and every instance of hardware unit SDN module and VNF module according to the accumulated data statistical analysis and anticipated usage. Scheduling a preventive maintenance activity includes scheduling one or more backup units to each hardware instance and one or more backup VNF instances associated with particular preventive maintenance activities.

It is appreciated that a maintenance activity performed on a particular hardware instance may require shutting down all the VNF instances allocated to that particular hardware instance. Therefore all these VNF instances should be migrated to their backup units.

It is also appreciated that a maintenance activity performed on a particular VNF type installed in a particular hardware instance may require shutting down the VNF instances of that particular VNF type allocated to that particular hardware instance. Therefore all these VNF instances should be migrated to their backup units but not necessarily VNF instances of different VNF types.

It is further appreciated that a maintenance activity performed on a particular VNF type may require shutting down all the VNF instances installed in the same hardware instance including VNF instances of other VNF types. For example if the maintenance activity requires maintenance to a shared memory or storage resource or a shared communication resource.

Preventive maintenance is typically associated with a particular hardware device even if the maintenance activity is confined to software only such as a soft reset memory defragmentation garbage collection or downloading a new software release. The hardware device may execute several VNF instances and even several types of VNFs. Different VNFs may be associated with different services customers sessions etc. Clearing a particular hardware device for maintenance requires migrating all active VNFs to other devices without disrupting or degrading the service.

A preventive maintenance procedure may also provide data to the deployment activation and provisioning modules to ensure that the deployment and or activation of a new service takes in account the needs for preventive maintenance and leaves available enough resources to enable timely maintenance activities.

The preventive maintenance procedure may also provide data to the policy accounting and billing modules to incorporate the cost of preventive maintenance in the pricing of plans and SLAs in accordance with their respective usage of VNFs as well as their effect on the network configuration.

As shown in the planning module starts with step by loading a hardware instance record and its respective record of a hardware type. From these records the planning module concludes and selects in step a fault having the earliest predicted time. That is the period for the earliest required preventive maintenance activity.

In step the planning module selects the maintenance preparation plan associated with the selected fault. The maintenance preparation plan includes a list of backup facilities typically one or more instances of hardware units and VNF modules . In step the planning module then checks that the backup facilities are available as needed considering processing power memory and storage space bandwidth etc. and if backup is unavailable notify an alarm module step .

If backup facilities are available as needed the planning module proceeds to step to identify all the VNF instances associated with the fault maintenance plan. Typically these VNF instances are running on the hardware instance to be maintained. However in some situations there are other VNF instances that should be relocated or replaced or otherwise require the use of a backup VNF instance.

The planning module then verifies that all these VNF instances have their backup available step . If backup is available the planning module schedules a maintenance preparation activity for each of the VNF instances step . Such maintenance preparation activity typically relocates the VNF instance to the respective backup facility. Finally the planning module activates blocking criteria step to eliminate further activation of any process or instance for these hardware and VNF instances.

After the maintenance planning module has scheduled all the maintenance preparation activities maintenance activation module may perform the maintenance preparation activities and thereafter activate the maintenance activity itself.

In one embodiment the activation module starts with step by selecting the earliest planned maintenance preparation activity. In step the activation module checks if the preparation activity refers to a hardware unit instance and then step verifies that all VNF instances associated with the hardware unit are relocated so that the hardware unit is software free and then step activates the preventive maintenance activity. If the hardware unit is not software free the activation module aborts and notifies the alarm module step .

If the planned maintenance preparation activity refers to a VNF the activation module proceeds to step to perform the maintenance preparation activity that is to migrate the function performed by the VNF instance to the planned backup hardware unit and or VNF instance. This activity may repeat for all the instances of the particular VNF residing on the particular hardware unit. When the VNF is cleared step that is when all VNF instances of the same type are migrated from the particular hardware unit to their backup locations the activation module activates the preventive maintenance activity step .

As shown in sub network includes four types of VNF instances a migrating VNF instance indicated by numeral a destination VNF instance indicated by numeral one or more source VNF instances indicated by numeral and one or more addressable VNF instances indicated by numeral . Source VNF represents any number of VNF instances sending data to the migrating VNF . Addressable VNFs represent any number of VNF instances receiving data from the migrating VNF .

A maintenance preparation procedure migrates the functionality of VNF instance to VNF instance while preserving service continuity between VNF instances and VNF instances .

Maintenance preparation procedure is an example of migrating a VNF in an NFV based network. Maintenance preparation procedure applies to preventive maintenance however the process described in maintenance preparation step also applies to other situations including an activity requiring the preservation of service continuity such as network optimization and product replacement. Maintenance preparation procedure describes by way of an example a method of migrating and deactivating a VNF instance hereinbelow replaced VNF instance while preserving session continuity.

In one embodiment maintenance preparation procedure starts with steps and by determining the VNF type of the VNF instance to be migrated replaced VNF instance and the alternative location or the target or destination computing facility to where the VNF instance is to be migrated. It is appreciated that the replaced VNF instance or the functionality of the replaced VNF instance can be migrated within the same computing facility.

For example when migrating a VNF functionality to an upgraded version of the VNF type or another product supporting a VNF type of a similar functionality.

The maintenance preparation procedure proceeds to step and step to verify that capacity is available at the destination computing facility alternative location and that traffic bandwidth is available from the source VNF to the destination VNF. If capacity or bandwidth is unavailable the process aborts and notifies the alarm module step . Capacity refers to processing power memory storage etc. Bandwidth refers to the traffic requirements from any source VNF instance to destination VNF instance as well as traffic requirements from destination VNF instance to any addressable VNF instance.

If capacity and bandwidth are available maintenance preparation procedure cheeks step if VNF software compatible with the destination VNF is already installed in the destination computing facility and installs the VNF software if necessary step .

The maintenance preparation procedure proceeds to activate the destination VNF instance step . If the destination VNF instance requires data and or content step the maintenance preparation procedure may load or update the required data and or content to the destination VNF instance step . Then the maintenance preparation procedure diverts the communication from the source VNF instances feeding the replaced VNF instance to the destination VNF instance step .

If necessary the maintenance preparation procedure may execute a compatibility verification step . A compatibility verification procedure may include comparing the output of the destination VNF instance with the outputs of the replaced VNF instance. It is appreciated that in this case the data flows from the source VNF instances are duplicated so that both the replaced VNF instance and the destination VNF instance receive the inputs substantially simultaneously.

The compatibility may be verified in step regarding data and or content and transmission and or timing parameters e.g. bandwidth latency jitter etc. . If the data of the outputs of the replaced VNF instance and the destination VNF instance is not the same step the maintenance preparation procedure may remove the VNF destination instance step and repeat the installation process. If the transmission or timing parameters of the outputs of the destination VNF instance is incompatible with the requirements step the maintenance preparation procedure may seek a different location for the VNF destination instance.

Thereafter the maintenance preparation procedure deactivates the VNF instance step . If there are a plurality of inputs step maintenance preparation procedure may repeat steps to as necessary.

It is appreciated that alternatively steps and may be executed after data and contents are loaded and or updated for all the inputs. It is appreciated that the compatibility verification process can be executed for each input independently and or for any group of inputs.

The maintenance preparation procedure has been described above referring to the migration of a single VNF. However as described above a service may include a plurality of VNFs and or VNF instances. Such plurality of VNFs and or VNF instances making a service is also named a VNF chain or sub network. Two or more VNFs and or VNF instances of such VNF chain or sub network may have particular inter related requirements. For example such two or more VNFs and or VNF instances may require particular bandwidth latency jitter etc. between them. In such case a process of VNF migration as described above with reference to maintenance preparation procedure and or may affect such two or more VNF instances or the entire chain or sub network. Consequently the steps of installing updating diverting verifying compatibility and deactivating may apply to a plurality of VNF instances taken together.

It is therefore appreciated that embodiments of the present invention as described above include a system method and computer program product for preserving service continuity in a communication network using network function virtualization. Service continuity is particularly preserved while performing network activities such as preventive maintenance network optimization and or product replacement. In one embodiment service continuity is preserved for each instance of a virtual network function before initiating any of the above activities relating to the particular VNF or a service including such VNF.

The method for preserving service continuity according to embodiments of the present invention may include at least one of the following activities disabling initiation of a new instance of a virtual network function in a processing facility before migrating an instance of the virtual network function from the processing facility initiating an instance of a virtual network function in a first processing facility before deactivating an instance of the virtual network function in a second processing facility migrating an instance of a virtual network function from a first processing facility to a second processing facility before deactivating the instance of the virtual network function in the first processing facility and or diverting communication addressed to a first instance of a virtual network function in a first processing facility to a second instance of the virtual network function in second processing facility before deactivating the first instance. The techniques described above apply when the VNF is migrated between different processing facilities or within the same processing facility.

An example on the multi NFV O environment is provided above with reference to describing a hierarchical NFV O deployment. In the hierarchical NFV O deployment of the maintenance preparation procedure as shown and described with reference to operates within the scope of a single NFV O such as an NFV O leaf component.

As an option the flow chart may be viewed in the context of the details of the previous Figures. Of course however the flow chart may be viewed in the context of any desired environment. Further the aforementioned definitions may equally apply to the description below.

If the particular leaf NFV O component is unable to migrate a VNF within its territory steps and the NFV O component may apply for additional resources step . For example the NFV O component may request additional resources from its parent NFV O component. A parent NFV O component may then reassign one or more resource from another NFV O component e.g. another NFV O leaf component to the requesting NFV O component.

If sufficient resources are acquired step there may be the following cases intra territorial resource allocation bilateral inter territorial resource allocation and multi lateral inter territorial resource allocation.

Intra territorial resource allocation steps and typically means that one or more resources where reallocated from a first territory typically managed by a first leaf NFV O component to a second territory typically managed by a second leaf NFV O component . The reallocated resources are now part for the second territory and the requesting NFV O may proceed to migrate the VNF instance s as shown and described above with reference to .

Inter territorial resource allocation typically means that one or more resources are assigned to the requesting second NFV O however under the management of the providing first NFV O. In simple cases such as bilateral inter territorial resource allocation only two NFV O modules are involved the migration is typically coordinated. In a coordinated migration each of the NFV O modules involved executes a part of the process shown and described above with reference to steps and of .

Multi lateral inter territorial resource allocation step typically means that several NFV Os are involved or that any other complexity requires that the execution of the process shown and described above with reference to is delegated to a superior NFV O module such as a parent or core NFV O module.

It is appreciated that the execution of the process shown and described above with reference to may be delegated to an NFV O module of a different hierarchy. For example from a geographical NFV O hierarchy to a module of service NFVO hierarchy or a module of customer NFVO hierarchy.

In step of the maintenance preparation procedure verifies that the new destination VNF is compatible with the old replaced VNF. The maintenance preparation procedure may verify compatibility by comparing corresponding output data of the new and old VNFs. In some cases the service provided by the migrated VNF is active at the time of compatibility verification and inputs are available to both the old and new VNFs producing compatible or incompatible outputs. In some cases the service provided by the migrated VNF is active at the time of compatibility verification and inputs are not available. In the later cases the maintenance preparation procedure may introduce artificial inputs to the new and old VNF to generate outputs that can be compared to verify compatibility.

The artificial input as described above may be test data as used to test the particular VNF program. However in the case of the maintenance preparation procedure and or step of verifying compatibility the test data is used to check that the data used by the destination VNF instance is compatible with the data used by the replaced VNF instance.

As part of a VNF migration process such as maintenance preparation procedure described above a destination VNF instance is provided to replace VNF instance . As part of a compatibility verification process such as step shown and described above with reference to a compatibility verification VNF instance is provided. Compatibility verification VNF instance receives the outputs of the replaced VNF instance and the destination VNF instance and compares them to verify that the destination VNF instance is compatible with the replaced VNF instance . As shown in compatibility verification VNF instance transfers the output such as the output of the replaced VNF instance to the one or more VNF instances . Additionally and or optionally for example if one or more of VNF instances is inactive a testing VNF instance is provided typically also as a part of a compatibility verification process such as step shown and described above with reference to . Testing VNF instance is connected to the inputs of the replaced VNF instance and the destination VNF instance to provide artificial input data to be compared by the compatibility verification VNF instance .

It is appreciated that the testing VNF instance may add a mark or a tag or a similar means of identification to input data sent to the replaced VNF instance and the destination VNF instance to identify the data as testing data . Thereafter the replaced VNF instance and the destination VNF instance may produce output data bearing the test marks or tags or similar means f identification and send it to the compatibility verification VNF instance . Thereafter the compatibility verification VNF instance may identify the particular output data received from the replaced VNF instance and the destination VNF instance as testing data and refrain from forwarding this data downstream e.g. to the one or more VNF instances . This enables the system as described in to operate the testing VNF instance while providing service to customers.

If the compatibility verification is successful the destination VNF instance is connected directly to the one or more VNF instances and the compatibility verification VNF instance and the testing VNF instance are removed.

Coupled to the network is a plurality of devices. For example a server computer and an end user computer may be coupled to the network for communication purposes. Such end user computer may include a desktop computer lap top computer and or any other type of logic. Still yet various other devices may be coupled to the network including a personal digital assistant PDA device a mobile phone device a television etc.

As shown a system is provided including at least one central processor which is connected to a communication bus . The system also includes main memory e.g. random access memory RAM etc. . The system also includes a graphics processor and a display .

The system may also include a secondary storage . The secondary storage includes for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disk drive etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner.

Computer programs or computer control logic algorithms may be stored in the main memory the secondary storage and or any other memory for that matter. Such computer programs when executed enable the system to perform various functions as set forth above for example . Memory storage and or any other storage are possible examples of tangible computer readable media.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

