---

title: Plasma-assisted synthetic jets for active air flow control
abstract: A plasma-assisted synthetic jet device, an aircraft including a plasma-assisted synthetic jet device, and a method of improving aerodynamic properties are disclosed for providing air flow control at an aerodynamic structure by ionizing one or more gases exiting through an aperture of the synthetic jet device disposed in the aerodynamic structure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09637224&OS=09637224&RS=09637224
owner: THE BOEING COMPANY
number: 09637224
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140221
---
The present disclosure relates to aerodynamic structures and more specifically to improved aerodynamic properties of aerodynamic structures using air flow control.

The performance of aerodynamic structures depends primarily on the lift and drag forces created at the surface of the structures in response to passing air flow. Mechanically fixed surfaces may be selectively included at aerodynamic surfaces such as rotor blades wings engine inlets fan blades nozzles etc. in order to alter local aerodynamic properties and thus achieve desired aerodynamic properties for those aerodynamic structures. Additionally movable control surfaces such as flaps slats spoilers ailerons elevators and rudders may be included in or on the aerodynamic surfaces in order to dynamically alter the geometry of the aerodynamic surface thus altering the aerodynamic properties of the structure.

Beyond the various mechanical means included on aerodynamic structures aerodynamic properties of the structures may also be altered by causing effects on the passing air flow. These effects may be generated by various actuating devices disposed in or on the aerodynamic surface or device.

One embodiment provides a synthetic jet actuator that includes an aerodynamic structure having an aerodynamic surface and forming an aperture through the aerodynamic surface. The synthetic jet actuator also includes one or more walls forming a chamber within the aerodynamic structure and adjacent to the aerodynamic surface wherein the chamber is in fluid communication with an ambient environment through the aperture. The synthetic jet actuator also includes an ionizing device disposed at the aperture and configured to ionize chamber gases exiting through the aperture.

Another embodiment provides an aircraft that includes a thrust source and one or more lifting surfaces configured to generate a lift force when coupled to the thrust source. The aircraft also includes at least one synthetic jet actuator configured to provide air flow control at an aerodynamic surface of the aircraft the aerodynamic structure having an aerodynamic surface and forming an aperture through the aerodynamic surface. The synthetic jet actuator includes one or more walls forming a chamber within the aerodynamic structure and adjacent to the aerodynamic surface wherein the chamber is in fluid communication with an ambient environment through the aperture. The synthetic jet actuator also includes an ionizing device disposed at the aperture and configured to ionize chamber gases exiting through the aperture.

Another embodiment provides a method for flying an aircraft that includes using a thrust source to generate a lift force at one or more lifting surfaces of the aircraft and providing air flow control at an aerodynamic structure of the aircraft by ionizing one or more gases exiting from a synthetic jet actuator disposed in the aerodynamic structure.

The features functions and advantages that have been discussed may be achieved independently in various embodiments or may be combined in yet other embodiments further details of which can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings.

To facilitate understanding identical reference numerals have been used where possible to designate identical elements that are common to the figures. It is contemplated that elements disclosed in one embodiment may be beneficially utilized on other embodiments without specific recitation. The illustrations referred to here should not be understood as being drawn to scale unless specifically noted. Also the drawings are often simplified and details or components omitted for clarity of presentation and explanation. The drawings and discussion serve to explain principles discussed below where like designations denote like elements.

To provide enhanced control of air flow at aerodynamic structures various actuating devices described in greater detail below may be included in or on the aerodynamic structures. By controlling the propulsion of gases from the chambers of the actuating devices i.e. by controlling volumetric flow rate direction etc. and further by selectively ionizing propelled gases better air flow control near the actuating devices may be achieved. By ionizing the propelled gases a larger plasma may be formed near the aerodynamic surfaces which in turn causes a greater attraction force on the passing air flow. As a result aerodynamic structures that include these actuating devices may exhibit greater aerodynamic performance such as decreased drag force increased flow attachment reduced noise and reduced turbulent wake. Consequently the aerodynamic structures may be less prone to stalls and may have decreased stall speeds and may be able to operate at greater angles of attack without inducing stalls. The propelled ionized gases may provide superior performance at supersonic or hypersonic speeds.

The air flow interaction further creates a boundary layer of air in which the air velocity is gradually reduced from a free stream velocity i.e. the velocity at points where the aerodynamic structure does not affect the air flow to approximately a zero velocity at the surface of the aerodynamic structure . The size and shape of boundary layer is related to the aerodynamic properties of the structure as well as the velocity of the air flow thus by altering the size and or shape of the boundary layer the amount of drag force created by the structure may also be changed.

Synthetic jet device includes one or more walls forming a chamber . The shape and position of the one or more walls may be selected in order to form chamber with a desired shape and or volume for example the walls may have a rounded shape from a top view to form a cylindrical chamber or the walls may be formed at right angles to form a rectangular chamber. Of course walls may have a non uniform profile such as tapered from top to bottom or vice versa . The volume of chamber may be selected so as to optimize performance characteristics of the synthetic jet device the shape of chamber may also be selected to optimize performance and may further account for practical considerations i.e. limitations associated with placement of the synthetic jet device within aerodynamic structure .

Synthetic jet device includes a piezoelectric actuated diaphragm which is physically coupled to the one or more walls and forms a boundary of chamber . A power supply is coupled to the piezoelectric actuated diaphragm and configured to cause the diaphragm to oscillate in an upward and downward motion as shown by the adjacent arrows . Of course the direction and or frequency of oscillation may vary depending on the orientation of the diaphragm and or the synthetic jet device . The oscillation of the diaphragm causes pressure changes within chamber which in turn causes air outside the synthetic jet device to be alternately drawn into and propelled out of chamber through aperture the air movement is represented by arrows .

By controlling the frequency and magnitude of the oscillations of the diaphragm and based on the current conditions of air flow the aerodynamic performance of a particular surface or device may be improved. To provide this control the power supply may generally be an alternating current AC power supply and may be configured to generate any feasible signal to provide to the diaphragm such as a sine wave square wave ramp sawtooth etc. The power supply may be further configured to use pulse width modulation PWM in order to provide a signal having a desired duty cycle to the diaphragm. Power supply may be disposed within aerodynamic structure .

In alternative embodiments diaphragm may be actuated using different means for example using electrostatic electromagnetic hydraulic or pneumatic means. In another embodiment a piston assembly may be used instead of the diaphragm. The piston assembly may form a seal with walls and provide the desired pressure changes within chamber to operate the synthetic jet device.

Synthetic jet device is positioned adjacent to an aerodynamic surface and may include one or more top walls coupled to the walls the one or more top walls may form part of aerodynamic surface and may be formed of the same material as the rest of aerodynamic surface or may alternately be formed of a different material. If top wall s are not included walls may be coupled directly to the aerodynamic surface so that aerodynamic surface forms a boundary of chamber .

In an alternative embodiment the synthetic jet device may be set in from an aerodynamic surface thereby providing a selected depth or thickness of the material of the aerodynamic surface between the synthetic jet device and the ambient environment .

In order to affect the air flow moving in ambient environment synthetic jet device is in fluid communication with ambient environment through an aperture that is formed through aerodynamic surface . Additionally or alternately the aperture may be formed through the one or more top walls of the synthetic jet device . Aperture may have any desired shape and size and may be selected so as to optimize performance characteristics of the synthetic jet device. In one embodiment the aperture is circular as seen from a top view and may have a fixed diameter between about ten 10 microns and about one hundred 100 microns. In other embodiments the size of the aperture may be mechanically adjustable in order to control the velocity of fluid flowing therethrough. For example the aperture could include a motorized valve coupled to a power supply an adjustable shutter and or a movable lid assembly disposed adjacent to the aperture.

Synthetic jet device further includes an ionizing device disposed at the aperture . The ionizing device may comprise any type of device capable of ionizing air or other gases which includes devices configured to produce electric or magnetic fields suitable for ionization. As shown the ionizing device includes a surface electrode and an inner electrode and each electrode is coupled to a power supply . The electrodes may have any feasible shape and size and may be constructed of any feasible conductive material. In one embodiment the electrodes may be constructed of a copper foil. In other embodiments electrode materials may be selected for conductive structural and or other properties example materials may include graphite carbon titanium brass silver platinum and so forth. To enable electrodes to generate the desired electric or magnetic fields and to avoid electrical shorts aerodynamic surface and or top wall s may be constructed of a dielectric material or at least significantly less conductive than the material selected for electrodes . Consistent with generally desirable aerodynamic properties some embodiments may provide an aerodynamic surface and or top wall s that are constructed of carbon fiber carbon fiber reinforced polymer or other composite materials having a suitable strength to weight ratio. Of course aerodynamic surface and top wall s may be constructed of different materials.

In several embodiments each electrode may be attached adjacent to the aerodynamic surface or to the top wall s and may have an opening that corresponds to the size and position of aperture . In one embodiment each electrode may be ring shaped having a circular opening. The surface electrode may be protected from the conditions of ambient environment by including an insulating layer configured to at least partially cover the surface electrode. The material of insulating layer may be selected based on its thickness or other aerodynamic properties as insulating layer extends into the ambient environment away from aerodynamic surface too great a thickness may cause an undesirable change in the aerodynamic properties of the aerodynamic surface e.g. a large thickness tends to create additional drag force . Examples of insulating layer may include an insulating tape or layer s of a film coating or of paint. The insulating layer material may primarily be selected based on its dielectric properties i.e. its ability to withstand operating voltages at a desired thickness or size and may also be selected for its thermal chemical or mechanical resistance properties. In one embodiment the insulating layer may be a Kapton a registered trademark of E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company tape or film other insulating layer materials may include polyimides polyamides polyamide imides polyetheretherketones or other polymers having suitable properties.

In alternate embodiments the surface electrode may be embedded fully or partially beneath the aerodynamic surface thereby reducing or eliminating the effects caused by its profile on the aerodynamic surface. For example top wall s may include a recess of a suitable size and shape to receive the surface electrode adjacent to aerodynamic surface . To protect the surface electrode from environmental conditions the surface electrode could be completely enclosed within the material of top wall s or of aerodynamic surface or the size e.g. depth of the recess could be selected to further include an insulating layer beneath the aerodynamic surface thus protecting the surface electrode while minimizing any profile on the aerodynamic surface.

As shown insulating layer extends only to the lateral edges of aperture . In other embodiments however the size of the opening in electrodes may vary from the size of the aperture for example surface electrode may have an opening that is larger than the aperture . In such an embodiment the insulating layer may be formed over the entire surface electrode thus fully shielding the surface electrode from the ambient environment without altering the size of aperture . The electrode opening may have any feasible size constrained by an ability to generate the electric or magnetic fields necessary to ionize propelled gases. Because electrodes are generally aligned with each other i.e. having little or no lateral offset a greater ionization efficiency may be realized during operation as a larger fraction of electric field lines may be used for ionization.

Electrodes are coupled to power supply which has parameters e.g. frequency and magnitude selected that are capable of ionizing gases as they are propelled out from the synthetic jet device into the ambient environment . The ionized propelled gases may form a plasma adjacent to or near the synthetic jet device which will generally attract air flow toward the aerodynamic surface . Power supply is generally an alternating current AC power supply and similar to power supply described above and may be configured to generate any feasible signal for example sine wave square wave PWM etc. to provide to the electrodes for ionizing the propelled gases.

In some embodiments the signals provided to both the piezoelectric actuated diaphragm and to electrodes may be a common signal. One embodiment may provide a common signal to both by using a single power supply as power supply and as power supply . Another embodiment may provide power supplies and as separate entities but synchronize their respective outputs so that essentially the same signal is provided.

In other embodiments the signals provided to the piezoelectric actuated diaphragm and to electrodes may differ but may be selected to provide improved performance of the synthetic jet device . For example the signal provided to piezoelectric actuated diaphragm may be selected to propel chamber gases at a particular volumetric flow rate and or cyclic frequency through the aperture . The signal provided to electrodes may be optimally synchronized to the signal provided to piezoelectric actuated diaphragm for example the signal provided to the electrodes may be delayed i.e. phase shifted by a predetermined amount such that pulses provided at the electrodes are coordinated to ionize a greater amount of air as it is propelled through the aperture . In other words a volume of air is propelled by a piezoelectric actuated diaphragm in response to the signal pulse provided by power supply . Instead of pulsing power supply at the same time as power supply the pulses of power supply may be selectively delayed to reflect an amount of time required for the propelled volume to physically reach the aperture . And by applying the ionizing pulses to electrodes as relatively larger amounts of air reaches the aperture a greater ionization efficiency may be achieved i.e. more ionization occurs for the amount of power delivered to the synthetic jet device .

Further in some embodiments the power supply may be configured to provide ionizing pulses to electrodes only during a selected portion of the signal cycle that is provided to the piezoelectric actuated diaphragm . For example power supply may alter its signal output so as to not ionize gases during periods in which piezoelectric actuated diaphragm oscillates in one direction and draws air into the chamber from the ambient environment . During this period power supply may provide no output signal i.e. zero volts to the electrodes or may instead provide a modified output signal perhaps having a lesser amplitude and or frequency that is calculated not to ionize any of the gases being drawn into the chamber . This may prevent unnecessary damage or wear to the synthetic jet device caused by forming a plasma inside the chamber itself and may further improve ionization efficiency of the synthetic jet device.

As described above embodiments may provide power supplies and as separate power supplies or as a single power supply. The power supply or supplies may be coupled to a synchronization module configured to selectively shift or otherwise tune the signals that are provided to piezoelectric actuated diaphragm and to electrodes . The functions provided by the synchronization module may be achieved through any feasible means such as by using hardware components an application specific integrated circuit or analog circuitry and or software.

Referring now to one embodiment depicted in a synthetic jet device is provided which includes several common components with other embodiments described above. Synthetic jet device also includes a bottom wall which may be coupled to the walls in enclosing chamber in one embodiment bottom wall walls and top wall s may be formed as a single unit. A gas source may be in fluid communication with chamber to provide one or more gases to be propelled and or ionized. A flow controller may be disposed between the gas source and the chamber to control gas flow delivered to the chamber. The gas source may include one or more gases selected for their ionization capability such as argon helium etc.

As the gases provided to chamber approach the ionizing device for example along a path shown by arrow the ionizing device may ionize the gases in a manner similar to that described above. The gases may be propelled through chamber toward aperture and ultimately through the aperture as atoms of the gases are attracted using the electric or magnetic fields generated by power supply and electrodes . In another embodiment as depicted in a synthetic jet device may use ionizing device to propel atoms of atmospheric air without a separate gas source.

Of course in all the embodiments a pressure differential may exist between the chamber and ambient environment . For example the velocity of air flow may cause a decreased air pressure in the ambient environment relative to the pressure within the chamber. This pressure differential may be beneficially used to supplement the propulsion provided by the various gas propulsion devices described herein or in other embodiments the pressure differential may be used as the sole source of propulsion.

Embodiments may achieve additional air flow control by permitting synthetic jet devices to be steerable. For example top wall s may be comprised of a flexible material such as rubber and walls or bottom wall may be physically connected to one or more actuating devices configured to pivot the synthetic jet device while the physical couplings between the aerodynamic surface walls and the top wall are maintained. Additionally or alternatively the walls i.e. the top walls walls and or bottom wall of the synthetic jet devices may be suitably shaped and or disposed within the aerodynamic structure to permit steering movement by the actuating devices . The actuating devices may include one or more electromechanical or pneumatic devices physically coupled to the synthetic jet device at discrete points or areas or coupled to a pivoting surface adjacent to the synthetic jet device for example a generally flat surface coupled beneath bottom wall . Of course different synthetic jet devices may be steered together or independently.

Additionally or alternatively a steering function may be performed using one or more electromagnets shown in adjacent to or in proximity of the synthetic jet devices and for example disposed within the aerodynamic structure and coupled to a power supply . When appropriate power signals are applied to the electromagnets the magnetic fields generated may influence i.e. may either attract or repel the ionized particles exiting the aperture of the synthetic jet device and thereby selectively steer the direction of the output.

No matter the configuration selected to achieve the steering functions the opening of top wall s of the steerable synthetic jet device may remain at least partially aligned with at the aperture in order to allow propelled gases to be ionized and to exit the chamber.

By controlling the propulsion of gases out from the chamber by controlling volumetric flow rate direction etc. the synthetic jet devices may provide better air flow control past the aerodynamic surface thus providing improved aerodynamic properties.

Generally the size of a formed plasma will be proportional to its ability to attract air flow that is by forming a larger plasma a greater effect on controlling the air flow may be realized. Providing propelled gases may tend to support formation of a larger plasma which may further attract the air flow . As a result synthetic jet devices can achieve greater penetration into the boundary layer in other words reduce the boundary layer in which drag forces occur which results in decreased drag. Additionally the attraction of air flow to the aerodynamic surface may provide better flow attachment to the aerodynamic surface this generally makes the aerodynamic structure less prone to stalls and may decrease the stall speed for the structure. Similarly the improved flow attachment to the aerodynamic structure may allow for greater angles of attack without stalling which may be beneficial for military aircraft or for other high performance applications. The synthetic jet devices may be particularly well suited for use across the range of subsonic supersonic and hypersonic speeds whereas devices not using propelled ionized gases may generally be suitable for use only at subsonic speeds.

Controller may be coupled through I O interface to one or more sensors which may generally provide data to the controller and may be used to complete a control feedback loop. Sensors may be configured to measure one or more parameters of the ambient environment the aerodynamic structure or the synthetic jet device such as various temperatures flow rate air speed humidity pressure electric or magnetic fields voltage current and so forth. Controller may also be configured to receive user inputs through the I O interface for example using an application programming interface API . Data received from sensors may be stored in memory as sensor data and the user inputs may be stored as setpoints or performance metrics generally reflecting a desired operation of the aerodynamic structure.

Based on sensor data and the setpoints performance metrics controller may be configured to calculate or to otherwise determine an optimal employment of the synthetic jet devices. Such an optimization function may include determining which of the synthetic jet devices to operate at what levels to operate i.e. power signal magnitude frequency and or gas delivered to the synthetic jet devices direction s to steer the output of synthetic jet devices and so forth. The optimization function may occur substantially continuously or may be performed at intervals by the processor .

Controller is further configured to provide control signals to several components of the synthetic jet devices. The control signals may be responsive to the determined optimal employment of the synthetic jet devices or may reflect user entered setpoints or performance metrics . For example power source signals may be used to optimally control the output provided by power sources . In some embodiments control signals may be sent to gas sources gas source signal or to the flow controller these signals could indicate among other things the selection quantities and distribution of gases to be provided to the chamber for propulsion and ionization. Controller may also be configured to provide steering control signals to one or more actuators or electromagnets configured to alter the direction of propelled gases from the synthetic jet devices generally as disclosed above.

Synthetic jet devices may be provided along the leading edge and or trailing edge or essentially at any other desired position of horizontal stabilizer or vertical stabilizer and may be used to augment or to entirely replace traditional control surfaces such as rudders elevators etc. Embodiments may include synthetic jet devices disposed at approximately corresponding positions on opposite sides of the horizontal stabilizer or on vertical stabilizer .

Synthetic jet devices may also be included at an air inlet of jet engines which are the thrust source for aircraft . Smoothing the air flow provided to the jet engines may result in more stable and or more efficient operation of the jet engines and as described above may permit extended operation of the jet engines for example beyond rated limits at least temporarily .

Synthetic jet devices may also be included anywhere along the fuselage . The synthetic jet devices may be advantageously placed adjacent to or near auxiliary components of the aircraft that protrude such as radio antennas and that generally decrease the aerodynamic properties of the aircraft i.e. create additional drag . For example one or more synthetic jet devices could be disposed fore or aft with respect to the air flow direction of landing gear to provide smoother air flow past the landing gear when deployed and thus better overall aerodynamic properties for the aircraft. The synthetic jets could also be selectively turned off or not used when the landing gear is retracted that is when compensating for the effects of the landing gear is unnecessary.

While aircraft is depicted as a commercial airplane the principles and methods may be similarly applied to personal aircraft sport aircraft military aircraft etc. The synthetic jet devices described herein may be included on fixed or moving surfaces for example the rotor blades of a helicopter while producing similar advantages. Still further the principles and methods described herein may also be applied in other aerodynamic fields such as high performance automotive or other commercial or personal transportation wind power generation etc.

Referring now to the embodiment illustrated in assembly includes aerodynamic surface and two 2 synthetic jet devices disposed in a row. In this embodiment a distinct surface electrode is provided to each synthetic jet device . While depicted here as circular electrodes having a circular opening corresponding to size of aperture the surface electrodes may alternately have any feasible shape and size as discussed above. The surface electrodes are each coupled to a power supply which in turn is coupled to an inner electrode not shown disposed in each of the synthetic jet devices . While separate power supplies are shown alternate embodiments may provide a single power supply coupled to multiple surface electrodes .

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present disclosure have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present disclosure may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present disclosure may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present disclosure are described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of instructions which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or carry out combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

While the foregoing is directed to embodiments of the present disclosure other and further embodiments of the disclosure may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof and the scope thereof is determined by the claims that follow.

