---

title: Method of manufacturing double reeds
abstract: A computerized reed fabrication system having an X-Y-Z axes computer numerical controlled (CNC) machine capable of holding a tool bit. The CNC machine operates under the control of CNC software commands. The reed fabrication system further includes a tool bit held by the CNC machine and a reed holder located adjacent that tool bit. Non-transitory computer readable media stores CNC software commands. A computer reads those stored CNC software commands and sends them to the CNC machine. The CNC software commands cause the CNC machine to move the tool bit relative to the reed holder as required to fabricate a double reed from a cut piece of reed cane.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09586337&OS=09586337&RS=09586337
owner: 
number: 09586337
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140519
---
The presently disclosed subject matter is directed to woodwind instrument reeds. More particularly the present invention relates to a novel method of manufacturing double reeds for use in woodwind instruments.

Among the many different types of musical instruments are wind instruments. In general wind instruments are musical instruments having resonators that set air into vibration when an instrument player blows air across or into a resonator. The resonator creates a pitch that depends on the configuration and dimensions of the resonator. In use the instrument player modifies the musical pitch using one or more of a wide range of playing techniques that modify the resonator or air vibration.

Wind instruments are of two basic types brass and woodwind. Some woodwind instruments use reeds to help set air in the resonators into vibrations. Of such reeded woodwind instruments there are two basic types single reed woodwind instruments and double reed woodwind instruments. Double reed woodwind instruments include among others the bassoon and its variations the oboe and its variations and the English horn and its variations. Other woodwind instruments such as the bagpipe come in both single reed and double reed versions.

Double reeds require careful fabrication to arrive at the desired sound profile. The process of making double reeds was first established in the mid 17th Century. Since then except for a number of tooling changes very similar processes are in use today as then. First cane tubes are harvested from a suitable cane. Those cane tubes are then split lengthwise into equal pieces traditionally 3 pieces. Splitting is usually performed by a cane splitter such as the cane splitters available from FORRESTS MUSIC 1849 University Ave. Berkeley Calif. 94703 U.S.A.

The split cane pieces are then cut to the desired length such as 75 mm A typical cutting tool would be the Reeds and Stuff model UHBG guillotine. The cut cane pieces are then pre gouged to a working thickness. Pre gouging is a process wherein the cut cane pieces are roughly formed into the desired final shape. A typical machine for pre gouging would be the Reeds and Stuff model UHBPGM pre gouger. The pre gouged cane pieces are then gouged to an accurately controlled thickness. A suitable machine for gouging would be the Reeds and Stuff model UHGMO.

The accurately gouged cane pieces are then shaped into a desired final shape. This typically requires two machines a shaper tip handle such as the Reiger handle RBSH and a shaper tip such as one of the set of Reiger tips RBST. A shaper such as the Reiger RBTPM could also be used. The cut and profiled pieces are set end to end to form the double reed. The ends are then cut such that the end tips are removed and the exterior is scrapped with a knife for smoothness and final sound tuning. An example of a scrapping knife is the Reiger RBKNFF.

It should be understood that good quality tools for forming double reeds are expensive easily costing thousands of dollars. In addition the prior art process of making double reeds was subject to a significant amount of waste caused by human error and became tiring after making numerous double reeds.

A double reed is comprised of two pieces of cane that vibrate against each other. Different double reed instruments use different styles of double reeds and different double reed styles produce different sounds. In fact different reed materials behave differently. Glotin cane tends to be a medium soft cane having a rather paler color. It generally requires a slightly thicker finishing gouge to produce good sound. While Glotin reeds have an overall silky texture it does vary from piece to piece. Some cane tubes yield some harder pieces while others are softer and stringy. Glotin cane is generally thick walled with tight vascular bundles which can be very appealing. Finished Glotin reeds have a focused rich sound but because it a rather soft cane reeds longevity is not particularly good.

In contrast to Glotin Rigotti is the work horse of the cane world. It is a medium walled cane having a generally golden color and moderate vascular bundles. Rigotti is quite easy to work with which enables prepping and gouging Rigotti to the finished contours without adjusting the final gouge. Finished Rigotti double reeds produce a focused full sound and have a good life span.

Another reed material is Medir. Most Medir cane is grown and harvested in the Var region of France or from Spanish Catalonia. Medir is a medium strength cane with a darker golden color and some marbling. Medir is medium walled with moderate vascular bundles and its tubes tend to be very straight and thus can yield a high number of processed pieces per given weight. Easy to work with Medir finished reeds have a focused rich sound but are not quite as vibrant as Rigotti or Glotin.

Loree is probably the most popular and consistent double reed cane. A medium hard cane with a rich golden color light marbling and smooth texture. Very consistent in terms of processing provides a high yield. Loree produces a very stable reed with a full focused sound and with a rather long life span since it is a harder cane. The finished Loree gouge may need to be adjusted slightly to finish thinner in the center to facilitate vibrancy. While variable Loree cane tends to have a high consistency in the final scrape and overall it is easy to work.

Pisoni cane is also a popular. Pisoni cane is generally a medium hard to hard cane with a golden color smooth and even texture and some marbling and produces a high yield of finished pieces. Pisoni tubes are generally straight and the final gouge may be adjusted to be slightly thinner to help vibrancy. Finished Pisoni double reeds tend to have a decent life span and to produce focused sound albeit sometimes rather bright depending on the scrape.

Var select cane is a medium hard to hard cane with a rather pale color a dull texture and tends to be somewhat tricky to work. Consistency varies but in general Var is a medium walled cane with tight vascular bundles which can use a slightly thin final gouge to facilitate vibrancy. The resulting reeds usually have good longevity. Harder pieces have a much more focused sound that can be bright whereas softer pieces are less focused and less stable.

Rieger cane is a medium hard to hard cane golden in color thick walled with some marbling. Rieger cane is generally very consistent with very straight tubes that produce a high yield of finished pieces. The final gouge may be adjusted to finish slightly on the thinner side to help facilitate vibrancy. Rieger cane generally requires more effort to get reeds vibrating but reeds made of Rieger cane are usually very focused and sit up in pitch.

Alliaud is one of the hardest canes. Alliaud has a darker golden color tight vascular bundles very thick walls some marbling and produces an even scrape. Alliaud require effort to get the reeds vibrating but the resulting reeds have a long lifespan and are very focused and stable. Alliaud is usually very consistent between harvest dates. The yield is slightly low as some tubes tend to be twisty which results in fewer finished pieces per weight. Alliaud is particular well suited for smaller diameter double reeds.

From the foregoing it can be seen that fabricating double reeds is time consuming and the required tooling can be expensive. Furthermore as can also be seen the various cane types require different tooling work and have different sound properties. Given those issues a new system for fabricating double reeds would be useful. Even more useful would be a new system for fabricating double reeds that take less time and that can be tightly controlled to produce useable reeds. Ideally such a system would be easy to adjust to work with different reeds would work well with different types of reed materials and which could be readily adjusted to produce customized double reeds. Beneficially such a system would reduce the human effort and drudgery of producing double reeds while also increasing yields.

The principles of the present invention provide for a new system of fabricating double reeds that take less time and which can be tightly controlled to produce useable reeds. That system is easy to adjust to work with different reed materials to produce different contoured double reeds. That system can also be readily adjusted to produce customized double reeds. It also reduces human effort and drudgery while increasing yields.

A computerized reed fabrication system in accord with the present invention includes an X Y Z axes computer numerical controlled CNC machine capable of holding a tool bit. The X Y Z axes refer to a Cartesian coordinate system that uniquely specifics each point in 3 dimensional space using numerical coordinates which represent distances from an origin along each of three perpendicular reference lines. Each reference line is referred to as a coordinate axis.

The CNC machine operates under the control of CNC software commands. The reed fabrication system also includes a tool bit held by the CNC machine and a reed holder adjacent to that tool bit. Non transitory computer readable media stores CNC software commands. A computer reads those stored CNC software commands and sends them to the CNC machine. The CNC software commands cause the CNC machine to move the tool bit relative to the reed holder as required to fabricate a reed.

The computerized reed fabrication system may also include a reed splitter for splitting a cane tube to produce a cane piece a reed cutter for cutting a split cane piece to a desired length and or a pre gouger for pre gouging a cut cane piece. The CNC machine may also include a base plate for securing the reed holder in place. Beneficially the computer includes a data entry device and a display for showing CNC software commands. Preferably the CNC software commands are G codes. Ideally the CNC software commands cause the CNC machine to move the tool bit relative to the reed holder to fabricate a double reed.

In another aspect the present invention is a method of fabricating a reed by splitting a cane tube to produce a cane piece cutting the cane piece to a desired length inserting the cut cane pieced into a reed holder downloading CNC software commands from a non transitory computer readable memory sending downloaded CNC software commands to an X Y Z axes CNC machine holding a tool bit locating a reed holder relative to the tool bit and tapering the cut cane piece in accord with the CNC software commands to produce a reed. Preferably that reed is a double reed and the CNC software commands are downloaded into a computer and then transferred into the CNC machine. Beneficially the method produces a double reed for an oboe for a bassoon or for an English horn.

In another aspect the present invention takes the form of non transitory computer readable media containing computer code to implement a computerized reed fabrication system having a CNC machine to produce a double reed. That double reed can be for an oboe a bassoon or for an English horn.

The preferred embodiment of the present invention is a reed fabrication system which is depicted in . illustrate reed contours of reeds which are used in or result from the operations of the reed fabrication system . However the present invention is not limited to the specifically described embodiment. A person skilled in the applicable art will appreciate that many other embodiments of the invention are possible without deviating from the basic concept of the invention. All such work arounds fall within the scope of this invention.

In the figures like numbers refer to like elements throughout. Additionally the terms a and an as used herein do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced items. Unless otherwise specified all directional signals such as up down left right and over and under are taken relative to .

As referred to herein a computer is any processor operated device or group of processor based devices having memory suitable for receiving code from non transitory computer readable media for implementing the subsequently disclosed reed fabrication system for producing reeds.

The G code is downloaded to the CNC machine by a wired or wireless link . The link should be understood as being any of a number of different communication venues such as serial port communications parallel port communications USB communications optical or infra red communications radio communications a hard wired telephone line microwave optical or any other technique that enables communication between the computer system and the CNC machine . The link also should be understood as including any towers internet links routers phone lines microwave towers and or other communication facilities needed to implement communications.

While the computer system and the CNC machine can produce a reed see directly from a cane tube see such is not considered the best method of fabricating finished reeds . Loses are high which makes yields low. Furthermore numerous handling and reed manipulations as well as numerous tool bit changes are required. To avoid those and other issues the preferred reed fabrication system incorporates a manually operated cane splitter cane cutter and pre gouger such as those described above.

The cane splitter splits a raw cane tube see into two or more pieces. The cane cutter then cuts the split pieces to the desired length for CNC fabrication. The pre gouger then pre gouges the cut pieces to produce a pre gouged piece that is similar to the gouged piece shown in . The gouged piece is actually a cut piece that has been pre gouged and subsequently milled by the CNC machine as explained in more detail subsequently. Pre gouging reduces material removal requirements and generally saves wear on the tool bit .

The reed fabrication system is very beneficial is converting the pre gouged split cane tube into the milled gouged piece . Tapering and thicknesses can be controlled by G code . Repeatability is excellent human labor is greatly reduced fabrication speed is increased while boredom is decreased.

Referring back to to fabricate the gouged piece a piece of pre gouged split cane tube is inserted into a reed holder and then accurately positioned relative to the tool bit on the base plate of the CNC machine . The operating software and G codes are then downloaded from the computer readable media into the computer system . The computer system then sends G code commands to the CNC machine via the link . The CNC machine then moves the rotating tool bit relative to the pre gouged piece in the reed holder using the X Y Z axis controller to produce the gouged piece .

Referring now to the minimum thickness of the gouged piece is set by G code . Typical values of the minimum thickness are between 0.55 0.57 mm and 0.67 0.69 mm depending on the type of reed being produced. Oboes will be different than bassoons and different types of oboes and different types of bassoons will have different thicknesses. The maximum thickness can be controlled either by the CNC machine or by proper selection of the appropriate cane tube .

Significantly the CNC machine can be set up to produce the foregoing dimensions simply by switching G codes . Such G codes are readily stored in the non transitory computer readable media . To produce the G code itself the desired tip profiles may be drawn in a CAD program and then saved in a suitable file format such as the DXF file format. That file format can then be converted into G codes .

Turning now to the gouged piece see is then cut to form a tip . The dimensions through of the tip are shown. The tip may be manually scrapped with a scraping knife to fine tune the sound. The tip has a tapering profile along its axial length of the tip .

The foregoing descriptions of the specific embodiment of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. The specific embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application. This enables others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and it various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

