---

title: Back office services of an intelligent automated agent for a contact center
abstract: A back office services of an intelligent automated agent for a contact center is provided. The back office services is configured to run on a processor coupled to a non-transitory storage device. The back office services includes: a customer profile module configured to access a profile of a customer from a customer profile database stored on the storage device, the profile of the customer including interaction data from interactions involving the customer and the contact center, and analysis results from analyzing the interaction data between the interactions involving the customer and the contact center; and a content analysis module configured to generate new analysis results by performing the analyzing of the interaction data between consecutive interactions of the interactions involving the customer and the contact center, and update the analysis results of the profile of the customer on the storage device to reflect the new analysis results.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09648167&OS=09648167&RS=09648167
owner: Genesys Telecommunications Laboratories, Inc.
number: 09648167
owner_city: Daly City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140505
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 866 824 filed Apr. 19 2013 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 801 323 filed on Mar. 15 2013 entitled INTELLIGENT AUTOMATED AGENT FOR A CONTACT CENTER. This application is related to U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 13 866 763 filed on Apr. 19 2013 entitled INTELLIGENT AUTOMATED AGENT FOR A CONTACT CENTER U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 13 866 793 filed on Apr. 19 2013 entitled INTELLIGENT AUTOMATED AGENT AND INTERACTIVE VOICE RESPONSE FOR A CONTACT CENTER and U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 13 866 812 filed on Apr. 19 2013 entitled CUSTOMER PORTAL OF AN INTELLIGENT AUTOMATED AGENT FOR A CONTACT CENTER. The entire content of all of the above are incorporated herein by reference.

Aspects of embodiments of the present invention relate to a back office services of an intelligent automated agent for a contact center.

Customer contact centers handle large amounts of interaction between customers and one or more enterprises such as companies or other organizations. For example contact centers may provide centralized customer service and support functions. This interaction and customer service is often handled by contact center agents live agents for example answering telephone calls responding to e mails conducting live chats making outbound calls etc. Contact centers may be very large employing several hundred or even thousands of members in customer service sales and support functions. A single contact center may service many companies for example on an outsourced basis allowing similar customer service work performed by the companies to be consolidated and run more efficiently.

Contact centers are often large offices staffed with representatives who either make or receive phone calls such as with live agents live chats e mails etc. Depending on the size of the contact center a single office could have less than a dozen representatives or more than 100 staff members some contact centers have several thousand staff members . Some contact centers focus on answering inbound calls such as a contact center for a bank that gives out a toll free number for customers who need assistance. In this example representatives may provide services such as giving account balances answering questions about transactions or taking loan applications over the phone. Other contact centers focus on outbound calls such as contact centers for survey companies whose representatives make calls to ask people survey questions or for telemarketing organizations or for accounts receivable.

Live agents however have limitations such as limited working hours limited capacity especially to conduct live assistance e.g. may be limited to handling only one or a few customers at a time limited knowledge levels or skill sets etc. that make it impractical to guarantee for example that the same live agent is always available to assist a particular customer whenever that customer has a need to contact the contact center or that the same answer is provided to different customers experiencing the same situation. Accordingly customers using a contact center are often provided with inadequate incorrect or inconsistent information frequently from a number of different live agents and frequently with repeatedly having to provide the same underlying facts or circumstances to bring the latest live agent up to speed with the customer s situation.

As the cost of live agents may be significant one method of improving the efficiency of the call center while containing the cost of the live agents is through techniques such as interactive voice response IVR technology which can help offload some of the simpler tasks from live agents. With IVR customer interactions are first broken down into a series of simple steps that may be delivered to a customer in an automated fashion such as prerecorded scripts or multiple choice menus on computer screens. This allows certain information such as the nature of the problem or an account number to be obtained for example through a telephone keypad or a computer keyboard before handing control over to a live agent.

Should for example the nature or complexity of the contact or the customer request an IVR interaction may need to be transferred routed to a live agent. For example the IVR may pass control to a router which may route the contact to a live agent possibly based on information collected by the IVR script such as to a live agent who specializes in the type of problem that the customer has selected from the choices provided . In addition IVR may even handle simple calls for routine matters such as a business hours of operation without engaging a live agent so long as the customer s request falls into one of the choices of the simple menus of options provided.

IVR however does little to address the inherent limitations of live agents discussed above. In addition customers tend to dislike IVR whose impersonal approach requires a lot of repeating of information in both directions frequently having to start from scratch and often not reaching an acceptable solution. For example customers find most IVR experiences unpleasant usually because of being put on hold for an unreasonably long time for example waiting for a live agent or having automated menus with too many options and no one option really appropriate and having to repeat the same information when trying to navigate the IVR menu in hopes of finding an acceptable path. In short IVR is not a sufficient contact center solution for most customer concerns.

Aspects of embodiments of the present invention are directed to an intelligent automated agent for a customer contact center. In one embodiment the automated agent is an application running on a server computer. The automated agent may learn for example by artificial intelligence to perform the roles of a live agent without the limitations of a live agent. In one exemplary embodiment the automated agent responds to the customer in real time and in the same language spoken or written used by the customer. For example the automated agent may have an artificial intelligence engine adapted to learn over time from its present interactions and use that knowledge to respond more appropriately to future interactions.

In one embodiment the automated agent communicates across all of the channels such as voice e mail chat web mobile smartphone etc. used by customers of the contact center. In one exemplary embodiment the automated agent serves as a consistent entry point for a particular customer contacting an enterprise. In one embodiment the automated agent remembers previous interactions with a particular customer or that the customer had with the contact center and modifies its responses to future interactions with the same customer to reflect the earlier interactions.

For example the automated agent may learn to recognize the voice of the customer which may reduce or prevent the occurrence of fraud when different people call pretending to be the same customer and may also help improve speech content recognition. In one embodiment the information collected about a particular customer during each interaction is automatically stored in a central database for automatic retrieval later by the automated agent when interacting with the same customer.

In one embodiment the automated agent builds a customer profile for each customer that it encounters or that contacts the contact center and stores the profile in the central database. The profile may be updated with each future interaction by the same customer including interactions with the automated agent or with the contact center. In one embodiment the profile may contain personal identification information of a customer such as social security number customer account number etc. as well as customer preference information information about the customer s emotions moods for example a snapshot of a customer s personality built up over time such as the customer is frequently in a bad mood or in a bad mood on Mondays behavior and transaction history. In one embodiment the profile may contain a list of transactions initiated by or for the customer but not completed.

A profile may thus contain a static portion e.g. features events qualities not likely to change over time and a dynamic portion e.g. pending transactions current mood that are likely or almost certain to change over time. In one embodiment the profile contains the static portion while the customer status or status contains the dynamic portion.

In one embodiment the automated agent may supplement existing live agents such as for example when a customer prefers to interact with the automated agent or when a live agent is not currently available or when service level agreement SLA budget or other resource considerations dictate that an automated agent should handle a particular interaction over a live agent. In one embodiment the automated agent may take over most of the work traditionally performed by the live agents of a contact center. In one embodiment the automated agent is supervised for example controlled by contact center supervisors who monitor the customer service of the automated agent and intervene if needed. In one embodiment the automated agent may also act as a supervisor for the contact center live agents.

In one embodiment the automated agent may be represented as an audio and video avatar that interacts with the customer for example on a computer display such as when connected to the contact center through a web interface . In one embodiment the automated agent interacts with the customer in a media form time and language based on a customer s preference or history of interactions with the automated agent or the contact center such as plain telephone smartphone web chat or e mail. In one embodiment the automated agent tracks a customer s preference for soft skills e.g. personality traits social graces communication language personal habits friendliness and optimism that characterize relationships with other people and matches live agents having these soft skills with the particular customer.

In one embodiment the automated agent performs as a person such as a live agent. For example the automated agent may be an instance of a set of software routines running on a computer that is owned by an enterprise. As such the automated agent may work for the enterprise. In another embodiment the instance of the automated agent runs on leased computing resources such as cloud computing and the automated agent works for many enterprises sharing the same computing resources.

In one embodiment the automated agent uses gamification techniques to maintain the customer s interest towards addressing a concern. The automated agent may use for example rewards gradual progress e.g. small steps competition and other psychological devices to instill a positive attitude or mood in the customer to help the customer achieve mutual goals of the contact center and the customer.

In one embodiment the automated agent may create a social community for customers. By taking advantage of customer s natural tendencies to socialize as well as to share information with those in similar situations the automated agent may organize customers experiencing similar challenges or concerns into a social community with for example forums with which to interact and communicate . The automated agent could reward activity in the community to foster activity that may be beneficial to for example the customers a sponsoring enterprise the automated agent etc. For example the automated agent may create a small social community of customers who share a similar but somewhat infrequent concern. For another example the automated agent may create a larger social community of customers who share or experience a more frequent concern or situation but one that does not lend itself to a single or simple solution.

In one embodiment the automated agent serves in a variety of roles such as interacting with customers mediating between customers and an enterprise and its live agents such as serving as the conduit between the customer and the back office of a contact center and supervising live agents. For example by maintaining extensive customer profile information on every interaction between a contact center and a customer and passing all this customer profile information to the back office the automated agent may assist or fulfill the traditional back office task of live agent assignment. In an exemplary embodiment the automated agent assign live agents to customers based on a variety of criteria such as past experience with live agents by the customer the mood of the customer some live agents are more capable of handling particular moods customer preferences etc.

In one embodiment the intelligent automated agent may be configured to have particular traits or capabilities that would be suitable for use in a contact center. These traits or capabilities include deduction reasoning problem solving knowledge representation and commonsense knowledge planning learning natural language processing perception creativity and suitable general intelligence for use in the contact center.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a back office services of an intelligent automated agent for a contact center is provided. The back office services is configured to run on a processor coupled to a non transitory storage device. The back office services includes a customer profile module configured to access a profile of a customer from a customer profile database stored on the storage device the profile of the customer including interaction data from interactions involving the customer and the contact center and analysis results from analyzing the interaction data between the interactions involving the customer and the contact center and a content analysis module. The content analysis module is configured to generate new analysis results by performing the analyzing of the interaction data between consecutive interactions of the interactions involving the customer and the contact center and update the analysis results of the profile of the customer on the storage device to reflect the new analysis results. The intelligent automated agent is configured to run on the processor take part in a next interaction of the interactions involving the customer and the contact center by accessing the profile of the customer adjust its behavior in the next interaction by factoring in the analysis results of the accessed profile of the customer and update the interaction data of the accessed profile on the storage device to reflect the next interaction.

The analysis results may include actions to be taken by the automated agent during future interactions of the interactions involving the customer and the contact center. The automated agent may be further configured to perform the actions during the future interactions.

The content analysis module may be further configured to run on the processor as a background process when computing resources of the processor are available.

The content analysis module may be further configured to generate additional analysis results between the consecutive interactions after an update to the content analysis module by re analyzing the interaction data after the updating of the profile of the customer to reflect the new analysis results and update the analysis results of the profile of the customer on the storage device to reflect the additional analysis results.

The back office services may further include a live agent assignment module configured to assign an appropriate live agent from a pool of live agents to the customer based on the analysis results of the profile of the customer.

The back office services may further include a suggested response handling module configured to delete or alter suggested responses to the customer based on the analysis results of the profile of the customer.

The back office services may further include a classification module configured to classify customers of the contact center into different classifications based on their corresponding analysis results of their profiles. The content analysis module may include a plurality of content analysis modules corresponding to the different classifications.

The analysis results may include a list of pending transactions and or requests by the customer that are not yet completed. The automated agent may be further configured to address the pending transactions and or requests during future interactions of the interactions involving the customer and the contact center.

According to another exemplary embodiment of the present invention a method of providing back office services for a contact center to a customer through an intelligent automated agent is provided. The method includes running the intelligent automated agent on a processor coupled to a non transitory storage device accessing a profile of the customer from a customer profile database stored on the storage device the profile of the customer including interaction data from interactions involving the customer and the contact center and analysis results from analyzing the interaction data between the interactions involving the customer and the contact center generating new analysis results by performing the analyzing of the interaction data between consecutive interactions of the interactions involving the customer and the contact center updating the analysis results of the profile of the customer on the storage device to reflect the new analysis results re accessing the profile of the customer during a next interaction of the interactions involving the customer and the contact center adjusting a behavior of the automated agent during the next interaction by factoring in the analysis results of the re accessed profile of the customer and updating the interaction data of the re accessed profile on the storage device to reflect the next interaction.

The analysis results may include actions to be taken by the automated agent during future interactions of the interactions involving the customer and the contact center. The method may further include performing the actions by the automated agent during the future interactions.

The method may further include generating additional analysis results between the consecutive interactions by re analyzing the interaction data using newer analysis criteria since the updating of the analysis results of the profile of the customer to reflect the new analysis results and updating the analysis results of the profile of the customer on the storage device to reflect the additional analysis results.

The method may further include assigning an appropriate live agent from a pool of live agents to the customer based on the analysis results of the profile of the customer.

The method may further include deleting or altering suggested responses to the customer based on the analysis results of the profile of the customer.

The method may further include classifying customers of the contact center into different classifications based on their corresponding analysis results of the profiles of the customers and generating corresponding new analysis results by performing the analyzing of respective interaction data of the profiles of the customers using different analysis criteria for the different classifications.

The analysis results may include a list of pending transactions and or requests by the customer that are not yet completed. The method may further include addressing the pending transactions and or requests during future interactions of the interactions involving the customer and the contact center.

According to yet another exemplary embodiment of the present invention a back office services of an intelligent automated agent for a contact center is provided. The automated agent includes a processor a non transitory storage device configured to store customer profile data and a memory. The memory has instructions stored thereon that when executed by the processor causes the processor to access a profile of the customer from a customer profile database stored on the storage device the profile of the customer including interaction data from interactions involving the customer and the contact center and analysis results from analyzing the interaction data between the interactions involving the customer and the contact center generate new analysis results by performing the analyzing of the interaction data between consecutive interactions of the interactions involving the customer and the contact center update the analysis results of the profile of the customer on the storage device to reflect the new analysis results re access the profile of the customer during a next interaction of the interactions involving the customer and the contact center adjust a behavior of the automated agent during the next interaction by factoring in the analysis results of the re accessed profile of the customer and update the interaction data of the re accessed profile on the storage device to reflect the next interaction.

The analysis results may include actions to be taken by the automated agent during future interactions of the interactions involving the customer and the contact center. The instructions when executed by the processor may further cause the processor to perform the actions during the future interactions.

The instructions when executed by the processor may further cause the processor to generate additional analysis results between the consecutive interactions by re analyzing the interaction data using newer analysis criteria since the updating of the analysis results of the profile of the customer to reflect the new analysis results and update the analysis results of the profile of the customer on the storage device to reflect the additional analysis results.

The instructions when executed by the processor may further cause the processor to classify customers of the contact center into different classifications based on their corresponding analysis results of the profiles of the customers and generate corresponding new analysis results by performing the analyzing of respective interaction data of the profiles of the customers using different analysis criteria for the different classifications.

The analysis results may include a list of pending transactions and or requests by the customer that are not yet completed. The instructions when executed by the processor may further cause the processor to address the pending transactions and or requests during future interactions of the interactions involving the customer and the contact center.

According to the above and other embodiments of the present invention an intelligent automated agent for a contact center provides enhanced customer service by performing the roles of a live agent but without the limitations of a live agent or a live agent with IVRs. By maintaining personal profiles embodiments of the present invention provide for an automated agent that learns about the customer from each interaction with the automated agent and with the contact center and interacts like a human for example having its own personality preferences mood etc. across the different media channels to provide a better and more personalized service than is possible with live agents alone or live agents with IVRs. In addition by maintaining a comprehensive record such as with the profile of a specific customer embodiments of the present invention provide for an automated agent with a better and more consistent recollection of a customer s previous interactions with the contact center than is possible with a pool of live agents or live agents with IVRs.

The operation of existing contact centers lacks sophisticated personalized service especially in the self service mode through IVR type interfaces. Customers tend to prefer interacting with live agents versus the limited and impersonalized service available from IVR interfaces. Live agents often lack the skills or give inappropriate or inconsistent assistance in contact center environments where customers often experience a different live agent with every attempt to address a concern or problem. An intelligent automated agent according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention addresses these and other deficiencies of live agents and or IVR interfaces by applying artificial intelligence methods in order to create a highly personalized customer portal including technologies such as audio and video avatars interacting with the customer. This concept of automated personalized service may also be applied to back office processing of customer interactions and other media such as chat email web etc. and may be tailored to the specifics of customer contact devices such as computers PDAs plain telephones or smartphones.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings the same reference numbers refer to the same or substantially the same elements throughout. In addition the term enterprise may refer to any business or organization such as a corporation or other entity that desires to interact with customers through a contact center. The term customer may refer to any person contact or end user such as a client customer business contact prospective customer etc. or group of such people or entity acting in the capacity of such a person or group of such people for example an automated agent working on behalf of another enterprise such as for a business to business interaction between enterprises desiring to receive services from or otherwise communicate with the enterprise through the contact center.

The term live agent may refer to any person working through the contact center interface to assist the customer. The term call may refer to any telephone call voice or text exchange such as chat or instant messaging representing a live communication between the customer and the agent. The term automated agent or intelligent automated agent may refer to any computer implemented entity that carries out the role of the agent in certain capacities.

According to one exemplary embodiment the contact center includes resources e.g. personnel computers and telecommunication equipment to enable delivery of services via telephone or other communication mechanisms. Such services may vary depending on the type of contact center and may range from customer service to help desk emergency response telemarketing order taking and the like.

Customers potential customers or other end users collectively referred to as customers desiring to receive services from the contact center may initiate inbound calls to the contact center via their end user devices collectively referenced as . Each of the end user devices may be a communication device conventional in the art such as for example a telephone wireless phone smart phone personal computer electronic tablet and or the like. Users operating the end user devices may initiate manage and respond to telephone calls emails chats text messaging web browsing sessions and other multi media transactions.

Inbound and outbound calls from and to the end users devices may traverse a telephone cellular and or data communication network depending on the type of device that is being used. For example the communications network may include a private or public switched telephone network PSTN local area network LAN private wide area network WAN and or public wide area network such as for example the Internet. The communications network may also include a wireless carrier network including a code division multiple access CDMA network global system for mobile communications GSM network and or any 3G or 4G network conventional in the art and or an LTE or any future public communication network.

According to one exemplary embodiment the contact center includes a switch media gateway coupled to the communications network for receiving and transmitting calls between end users and the contact center. The switch media gateway may include a telephony switch configured to function as a central switch for agent level routing within the center. In this regard the switch may include an automatic call distributor a private branch exchange PBX an IP based software switch and or any other switch configured to receive Internet sourced calls and or telephone network sourced calls. According to one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the switch is coupled to a call server which may for example serve as an adapter or interface between the switch and the remainder of the routing monitoring and other call handling systems of the contact center.

The contact center may also include a multimedia social media server for engaging in media interactions other than voice interactions with the end user devices and or web servers . The media interactions may be related for example to email vmail voice mail through email chat video text messaging web social media screen sharing and the like. The web servers may include for example social interaction site hosts for a variety of known social interaction sites to which an end user may subscribe such as for example Facebook Twitter and the like. The web servers may also provide web pages for the enterprise that is being supported by the contact center. End users may browse the web pages and get information about the enterprise s products and services. The web pages may also provide a mechanism for contacting the contact center via for example web chat voice call email web real time communication WebRTC or the like.

According to one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the switch is coupled to an interactive voice response IVR server . The IVR server is configured for example with an IVR script for querying customers on their needs. For example a contact center for a bank may tell callers via the IVR script to press 1 if they wish to get an account balance. If this is the case through continued interaction with the IVR customers may complete service without needing to speak with an agent.

If the call is to be routed to an agent the call is forwarded to the call server which interacts with a routing server for finding an appropriate agent for processing the call. The call server may be configured to process PSTN calls VoIP calls and the like. For example the call server may include a session initiation protocol SIP server for processing SIP calls.

In one example while an agent is being located and until such agent becomes available the call server may place the call in for example a call queue. The call queue may be implemented via any data structure conventional in the art such as for example a linked list array and or the like. The data structure may be maintained for example in buffer memory provided by the call server .

Once an appropriate agent is available to handle a call the call is removed from the call queue and transferred to a corresponding agent device collectively referenced as . Collected information about the caller and or the caller s historical information may also be provided to the agent device for aiding the agent in better servicing the call. In this regard each agent device may include a telephone adapted for regular telephone calls VoIP calls and the like. The agent device may also include a computer for communicating with one or more servers of the contact center and performing data processing associated with contact center operations and for interfacing with customers via a variety of communication mechanisms such as chat instant messaging voice calls and the like.

The selection of an appropriate agent for routing an inbound call may be based for example on a routing strategy employed by the routing server and further based on information about agent availability skills and other routing parameters provided for example by a statistics server . According to one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the statistics server includes a customer availability aggregation CAA module for monitoring availability of end users on different communication channels and providing such information to for example the routing server agent devices and or other contact center applications and devices.

In one embodiment the statistics server may be replaced with a separate statistics server for maintaining the status of live agents as routing targets and a separate statistics server for maintaining the status of customers as reach out targets as may be implemented in the CAA module . For example the CAA module may also be deployed in a separate application server. The aggregation module may be a software module implemented via computer program instructions which are stored in memory of the statistics server or some other server and which program instructions are executed by a processor. A person of skill in the art should recognize that the aggregation module may also be implemented via firmware e.g. an application specific integrated circuit hardware or a combination of software firmware and hardware.

According to one exemplary embodiment the aggregation module is configured to receive customer availability information from other devices in the contact center such as for example the multimedia social media server . For example the multimedia social media server may be configured to detect user presence on different websites including social media sites and provide such information to the aggregation module . The multimedia social media server may also be configured to monitor and track interactions on those websites.

The multimedialsocial media server may also be configured to provide to an end user a mobile application for downloading onto the end user device . The mobile application may provide user configurable settings that indicate for example whether the user is available not available or availability is unknown for purposes of being contacted by a contact center agent. The multimedialsocial media server may monitor the status settings and send updates to the aggregation module each time the status information changes.

The contact center may also include a reporting server configured to generate reports from data aggregated by the statistics server . Such reports may include near real time reports or historical reports concerning the state of resources such as for example average waiting time abandonment rate agent occupancy and the like. The reports may be generated automatically or in response to specific requests from a requestor e.g. agent administrator contact center application and or the like .

According to one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the routing server is enhanced with functionality for managing back office offline activities that are assigned to the agents. Such activities may include for example responding to emails responding to letters attending training seminars or any other activity that does not entail real time communication with a customer. Once assigned to an agent an activity may be pushed to the agent or may appear in the agent s workbin collectively referenced as as a task to be completed by the agent. The agent s workbin may be implemented via any data structure conventional in the art such as for example a linked list array and or the like. The workbin may be maintained for example in buffer memory of each agent device .

According to one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the contact center also includes one or more mass storage devices for storing different databases relating to agent data e.g. agent profiles schedules etc. customer data e.g. customer profiles interaction data e.g. details of each interaction with a customer including reason for the interaction disposition data time on hold handle time etc. and the like. According to one embodiment some of the data e.g. customer profile data may be provided by a third party database such as for example a third party customer relations management CRM database. The mass storage device may take form of a hard disk or disk array as is conventional in the art.

According to one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the contact center also includes an intelligent automated agent for handling calls or other interactions e.g. web with customers. The automated agent may be implemented for example on a server. The automated agent for example may include capabilities such as voice recognition speech recognition answer generation speech generation and customer profile information that enables the automated agent to perform agent roles without having to use a live agent. For instance in one embodiment the automated agent maintains a database of customer profile information for example as stored on a nonvolatile storage device such as a disk drive or mass storage device that may be updated with each interaction between the customer and the contact center.

The automated agent may be connected to the switch media gateway to directly switch the customer for example via end user device to the automated agent . The automated agent may also be connected to the IVR server to allow the IVR server to communicate directly with the automated agent for example to communicate information related to a current call being handled by the IVR server to the automated agent . For example the IVR server may decide to no longer handle the current call and instead hand control of the customer s call to the automated agent for some or all of the processing that otherwise might be handled by for instance the IVR server and or a live agent . The automated agent may also be connected to the call server to allow the call server to communicate directly with the automated agent for example to transfer a call to the automated agent in place of one of the live agents . For example the contact center may route all calls to the automated agent when there are no live agents available.

The various servers of may each include one or more processors executing computer program instructions and interacting with other system components for performing the various functionalities described herein. The computer program instructions are stored in a memory implemented using a standard memory device such as for example a random access memory RAM . The computer program instructions may also be stored in other non transitory computer readable media such as for example a CD ROM flash drive or the like. Also although the functionality of each of the servers is described as being provided by the particular server a person of skill in the art should recognize that the functionality of various servers may be combined or integrated into a single server or the functionality of a particular server may be distributed across one or more other servers without departing from the scope of the embodiments of the present invention.

It should also be appreciated from the above that various structures and functions may be incorporated into a variety of apparatuses. In some embodiments hardware components such as processors controllers and or logic may be used to implement the described components. In some embodiments code such as software or firmware executing on one or more processing devices may be used to implement one or more of the described operations or components.

In one embodiment the automated agent may run in one of several modes such as self service for example handling an entire customer interaction without using a live agent or assisted service for example delegating certain tasks to a live agent depending on factors such as the nature of the problem customer preference customer service level agreement etc. The automated agent for example may have specific front end interfaces tailored to corresponding customer contact devices or methods such as web plain telephones smartphones text messages etc. In one embodiment the automated agent s functions may further include back office services such as live agent assignment.

For instance the automated agent may assign live agents to the customer based on factors such as the customer s preferred soft skills in live agents the customer s current mood the customer s previous experiences with specific live agents live agent grade e.g. a live agent at a sufficient level to be authorized to make decisions desired by the customer etc. The automated agent may also be granted an agent grade to reflect the decisions that the automated agent is authorized to make on behalf of the enterprise.

In one embodiment the automated agent communicates over any of the standard media channels for contact center interaction including for example plain telephone smartphone chat web and e mail . For instance the automated agent may tailor its front end interface to suit the preference of a particular customer based on factors such as the expressed desire of the customer the customer s previous interactions with the contact center or the customer s method of contacting the contact center.

The automated agent of may include several modules and databases including for example a customer portal module back office services module a customer directory database and a live agent pool administration module . The customer portal module represents the interface between the customer and the contact center such as the back office of the contact center . The customer portal module may access profile information about the customer that is built up from various sources such as the present interaction as well as earlier interactions between the customer and the automated agent or the contact center and may store this information in a customer profile for example in a database stored on a nonvolatile storage device such as a disk drive .

The automated agent may also maintain a live agent database for storing and retrieving information about each of the live agents working at the contact center for example their hard and soft skills their availability etc. In one embodiment this functionality of the automated agent may be separate from partially overlap or totally subsume that of the statistics server such as the statistics server of . For example the automated agent may manage the presence or availability such as immediate availability information of the live agents. These modules and databases are described in further detail with reference to .

The customer portal module for example may use voice recognition and speech recognition software as known to one of ordinary skill in the art to identify a customer and convert the customer s spoken interaction into words. In one embodiment the speech recognition may utilize the speech recognition technology described in Konig et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 487 094 SYSTEM AND METHOD OF CALL CLASSIFICATION WITH CONTEXT MODELING BASED ON COMPOSITE WORDS the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference or may be done with other suitable speech recognition technologies.

According to one embodiment the customer portal module may present a personalized IVR dialogue to the customer as implemented by the personalized IVR module . In one embodiment this personalized IVR module arranges questions and possible responses based for example on the customer profile . For instance questions for which the profile already has a previous response may be skipped or re asked in an acknowledgment form such as Is XXX XXX XXXX still a good phone number to contact you as directed by the personalized IVR module .

The customer portal module of may interact with the customer for example through components such as the avatar module of the personalized IVR module as tuned by the customer s preferences which may be stored in the customer profile . For example preferred media channels such as text speech smartphone web plain telephone time profile such as Monday through Friday 9 00 a.m. through 5 00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time language such as U.S. English etc. for the customer may be stored in the customer profile . In one embodiment the customer profile maintains multiple preferences for the customer such as plain telephone and web. These preferences may be ordered for example plain telephone may be ordered first and web ordered second or they may have different components for example plain telephone may have a time profile of Monday through Friday 9 00 a.m. 5 00 p.m. while web may have a time profile of anytime . Customers may also have preferences for multiple languages such as English and French with different profile information for each such as text for French and text and speech for English or preferences for one language over another.

In one embodiment the customer s moods emotions sentiments etc. are detected by the customer portal module using the customer emotion and mood detection module . The customer emotion and mood detection module may detect soft factors as expressed by the customer for example in their voice their speech e.g. words and or their gestures or other visual cues.

For example in one embodiment the emotion and mood detection module may include the voice analysis module to sense the customer s current sentiments moods etc. by analyzing the customer s voice pattern. For instance the voice analysis module may compare the current voice pattern of the customer such as from the present interaction against that of a voice pattern of a general population or of a population fitting the customer profile or of the customer as built up for instance from earlier interactions with the automated agent or contact center and saved in the customer s profile .

In one embodiment the voice analysis module may use voice biometric technology to compare known voice recordings of the customer as stored for example in the customer profile to new conversations to determine who is speaking. The voice biometric technology may involve for example recording words to capture the frequencies associated with a customer s voice and using statistical models to extrapolate speech patterns. These speech patterns may be as accurate as a fingerprint in identifying a speaker. A person s voice is affected also by variables like mood and health which may be detected by comparing present voice samples of the customer to for example the previous voice recordings or an established voice pattern of the customer.

For another example in one embodiment the emotion and mood detection module may include the speech analysis module to detect the customer s current sentiments moods etc. by analyzing the customer s speech such as words phrases or sentences . Emotions and moods for example may be detected by converting the customer s speech to text using for example the speech recognition module of and then analyzing the text for a set of pre defined phrases words etc. e.g. derogatory profane condescending polite etc. which could identify the mood or emotions of a person. Customer speech samples may also be maintained in the customer profile for comparison with future speech samples to see if the customer may be employing different speech patterns in a current interaction which may be useful in emotion and mood detection.

For another example in one embodiment the emotion and mood detection module may include the visual cue analysis module to sense the customer s current sentiments moods etc. by analyzing the customer s facial or body expressions or characteristics. Like voice pattern analysis visual cues may be identified for the particular customer as collected from earlier interactions with the customer and stored in the customer s profile as well as from a general population or of a population fitting the customer profile such as a sampling from persons of the same culture as the customer as expressions and body language may vary by culture .

From this or these comparisons the emotion and mood detection module may use the voice analysis module the speech analysis module and or the visual cue analysis module to determine for example if the customer is talking louder or softer faster or slower etc. than normal or usual or if the customer is exhibiting voice patterns characteristic of agitation such as with word selection or intonation or if the customer is expressing anger pleasure frustration etc. in his outward visual appearance.

For instance the emotion and mood detection module may determine that the customer is angry for example from a loud voice profane language and or clenched teeth . From this detection the automated agent for example may direct the customer to a live agent such as a live agent that is skilled with dealing with angry customers e.g. a live agent with good anger management skills . More advanced processing may take specifics of the customer into account e.g. to recognize irony or sarcasm or to detect the actual frustration level of the customer. For instance based on previous interactions with the customer as recorded in the customer profile the customer may be significantly more likely than the general population to use irony or sarcasm or the customer may exhibit varying degrees of frustration or anger when interacting with the contact center.

In one embodiment the emotion and mood detection module may determine if the customer is impatient for example when the customer tries responding before being prompted or before hearing many of the possible responses or if the patient is rolling his eyes or appearing agitated and if so may adjust the automated agent to respond differently. For example the automated agent may speed up its IVR dialog or may use more abbreviated scripts if the customer seems to be losing his or her patience with the current delivery rate of scripted dialogue from the personalized IVR module . In one embodiment the emotion and mood detection module may utilize the mood or emotional state detection technology described in Scott et al. U.S. Patent Appl. Pub. No. 2011 0010173 SYSTEM FOR ANALYZING INTERACTIONS AND REPORTING ANALYTIC RESULTS TO HUMAN OPERATED AND SYSTEM INTERFACES IN REAL TIME the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference or may be done with other suitable mood or emotional state detection technologies.

In one embodiment the customer portal module includes the gamification module for applying gamification concepts such as making tasks seem more like games with incentives and or rewards trying to leverage the customer s natural inclination to finish tasks or achieve success within interactions with the customer. The gamification module for example may involve the customer more in one of the personalized IVR dialogs by turning an information gathering procedure into a game in which the customer provides answers to achieve levels of completion towards a goal desired by the customer e.g. solution of a problem provision of desired information etc. Addressing customer concerns may also be beneficial to the enterprise running the contact center not only in keeping their customer base satisfied but also in exposing potential problems or areas of improvement before or while they are affecting other customers.

By guiding the customer through the gamification process the automated agent may engage the customer in a more interactive experience such as an experience where the customer has sight of the goal the obstacles faced by the automated agent in helping the customer achieve the goal and the missing links that the customer needs to provide so that the customer and the automated agent working together may achieve the goal. This may help the customer maintain a more positive and cooperative attitude or mood throughout the process. The gamification module may introduce actual game elements such as letting customers compete for example being the first to identify problems or solutions finding or identifying the most problems or solutions finding the best solution etc. In one embodiment the gamification module may use a more subtle and possibly more effective approach namely learning from the psychological principles of gaming such as conveying the experience of permanent progress for example after adapting to a customer s individual capabilities or skills .

In one embodiment the customer portal module may also include the collaborative knowledge base and the knowledge transfer interface for organizing knowledge transfer between customers. For example the collaborative knowledge base may be organized as a database and stored on a nonvolatile storage device such as a disk drive cloud storage etc. Here the goal may be two fold solve the problem raised by the customer and then learn from the experience by recording the solution in the collaborative knowledge base to help others.

Gamification principles could be used here as well. For example the gamification module could offer incentives to customers who help diagnose problems and their solutions by rewarding customers whose solutions later turn out to benefit other customers. People are driven naturally by a sense of altruism to help others but this may be exploited more fully by letting them be the first to find a solution and rewarding them for each other customer they help with the same problem for example for each other customer whose problem is fixed by being directed to the same solution . Rewards may be for example financial e.g. money merchandise discounts virtual such as frequent flyer points that at some point may be convertible into a financial reward or psychological e.g. goodwill such as your contribution has helped over 100 other customers avoid the same problem .

For example in one embodiment the collaborative knowledge base may be organized by concepts such as particular terms problems and solutions in addition to other criteria such as customer system time etc. and may be searched via the knowledge transfer interface as a series of questions and answers utilizing these terms or other criteria to direct the customer to the appropriate solution. For example both the search path taken by the knowledge transfer interface as well as the solution reached may be stored in the collaborative knowledge base . In this fashion future searches by the knowledge transfer interface may search for example for one or both of the possible solution or a search path by a previous customer including possibly the same customer who searched in this manner before. The solution may then be found for example by a direct search of the collaborative knowledge base or from the solution of the previous customer or by connecting the previous customer to the present customer by for example forums possibly rewarding the previous customer in the process.

Rewards may be for example any form of consideration or compensation that motivates the customer to contribute to the collaborative knowledge base to help other customers. For instance rewards may be monetary e.g. currency gift cards service credits virtual e.g. points that may be accumulated and applied to something of value to the customer etc.

An exemplary process flow of the knowledge transfer interface will now be described with reference to . Each of the processes in the present application may be described in terms of a software routine executed by one or more processors based on computer program instructions stored in memory. A person of skill in the art should recognize however that the routine may be executed via hardware firmware e.g. via an ASIC or in combination of software firmware and or hardware. Furthermore the sequence of steps of the process is not fixed but may be altered into any desired sequence as recognized by a person of skill in the art.

In step a library of responses for example pre defined answers may be searched for example based on a search algorithm to find the best fit to what was said or asked etc. The library of responses for example may be part of the collaborative knowledge base and cross indexed or arranged with corresponding questions or statements for example a library of questions to which they may pertain. In one embodiment the collaborative knowledge base is dynamic growing and or refining its library of statements library of questions or the relationships between the two libraries at the direction of the knowledge transfer interface . The search algorithm may be a pre defined search algorithm for searching databases and returning relevant results as is known to one of ordinary skill in the art. In step the best fit answer is converted to speech using for example the speech synthesis module of and output to the customer.

Returning to in one embodiment the customer portal module may have a customer acceptance testing module for doing customer acceptance testing on for example IVR scripts live agent scripts routing rules etc. versus different customer profiles as collected for example in the customer profile . For example the acceptance testing module may test a proposed IVR script on particular customer profiles for example particular geographical regions or business relationships to gauge its effectiveness. If for instance the particular IVR script is only effective e.g. understood with some profiles and not others the IVR script may be tagged to only be delivered to those customers profiles for which it is effective. Likewise if the IVR script is not effective with certain customer profiles for example customers in these customer profiles find the IVR script to be very confusing the IVR script may be pulled from distribution to these customer profiles and either rewritten or otherwise enhanced to improve its effectiveness to these customer profiles.

In a traditional contact center the front office portion and the back office portion may be handled by live agents. In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention some or all of the front office portion is handled by the customer portal module of an automated agent while some or all of the back office portion is handled by the back office services module of the automated agent. In one embodiment the back office services module may include for example a live agent assignment module for matching an appropriate live agent with the customer by using a live agent database a suggested response handling module for checking suggested responses or response handling options against the customer profile a content analysis module for analyzing the content of the customer s interactions in light of the customer profile and a social community module for organizing customers into social communities.

According to one embodiment the live agent assignment module is responsible for assigning an appropriate live agent such as the most appropriate live agent to the customer for the particular problem at hand. While the cost of live agents in a contact center may be high and the goal of the contact center may be to replace all or most live agents in the contact center with an automated agent another scenario may be the retaining of fewer more specialized live agents in the contact center together the live agent assignment module for directing the customer to the most appropriate live agent for example when the customer portal module no longer appears to be making satisfactory progress towards a solution for the customer s problem . Live agent handling may be appropriate for example when the customer prefers interacting with live agents e.g. as indicated in the customer profile or the customer has contracted to have live agent support or the nature of the customer s problem does not seems amenable to an automated agent response.

When the live agent assignment module determines to assign a live agent to the customer the live agent assignment module may consider a number of factors such as the customer s preferences e.g. a live agent s hard skills or soft skills the customer s current mood or emotions previous live agent experience etc. available live agents the customer s service level agreement etc. To this end the live agent assignment module may search the live agent database which may contain biographical information on all the possibly available live agents. The customer may have preferred agents or types of agents to interact with as may be determined from experience or as specified by the customer which may be stored into and retrieved from the customer profile by the live agent assignment module or other components such as the personalized IVR module . By way of example in one embodiment when the customer s current mood appears to be agitated or hostile the live agent assignment module may assign the customer to a live agent identified in the live agent database as having good anger management or conflict management skills.

In one embodiment the suggested response handling module may check suggested responses or response handling options against the customer profile . While the customer portal module may provide the responses to the customer it may have a choice of responses or it may have a proposed response. The suggested response handling module may check the response or responses against the customer profile and delete or alter responses that the customer profile indicates would not be appropriate. For example responses that have already been supplied to the customer and for which the customer has indicated are not effective may not be supplied any further to the customer.

The suggested response handling module may also check the customer profile for deciding the best way to address a customer concern. For example the customer profile may represent data collected over time e.g. as based on a pre defined algorithm and may contain information such as pending requests not completed customer service level status business data past interactions preferred options mood information etc. Every time the customer contacts the contact center the profile data in the customer profile may be considered in handling the next request by the customer for example whether the request should be handled by the automated agent or sent to the best qualified live agent where best qualified may be determined for instance by the automated agent .

For example in one embodiment the suggested response handling module may assist in identifying or handling opportunities for personalized cross up sales such as opportunities to make a cross sale of a related good or service to the customer or to make an up sale e.g. increased sale of a particular good or service desired by the customer. For instance when receiving an inbound interaction from a given customer the suggested response handling module may first analyze whether there are cross up sell opportunities for this customer and the likelihood of the customer s acceptance e.g. after analyzing the current interaction and or reviewing the customer profile .

If the outcome of the cross up sell analysis seems sufficiently positive or receptive the suggested response handling module may search for the best live agent for handling both the customer s primary need e.g. the particular product or service request of the interaction and at the same time handling the cross up sale offer for example using the live agent assignment module . This may involve further personalization such as a good fit of the live agent to the customer s preferences.

In one embodiment the content analysis module may analyze the content of the customer s interactions in light of the customer profile . For example the customer profile content e.g. voice or video recordings chats collected information etc. may be analyzed for instance with a pre defined algorithm by the content analysis module for particular information such as particular words expressions behaviors during interactions with the contact center. The customer profile may then be updated by the content analysis.

At some point the content analysis module for example an algorithm in the content analysis module may be enhanced e.g. to search for new information in the customer profile content . In one embodiment the automated agent may run the enhanced content analysis module on all of the existing customer profile content updating the customer profiles in the process. This way when an existing customer contacts the contact center again the customer profile for this customer will reflect the updates from the enhanced content analysis module . Thus in the next interaction between the customer and the contact center the latest profile content update e.g. version is considered for decisions such as routing the customer to the appropriate resource by the automated agent. For example the updating of the customer profiles by the enhanced content analysis module may take place as background processing when computing resources are available.

In one embodiment the content analysis module uses dedicated models for different customer profiles. For example customers fitting one particular customer profile may use a different model for example different rules of content analysis module for performing their customer profile content analysis. In another embodiment the content analysis module may use a different model for each individual customer. For example a core model or customer profile model could be enhanced by dynamically adding additional customer specific rules.

In one embodiment the social community module may organize customers for example who share common concerns as revealed by their customer profiles into an online social community. These communities for example may be somewhat small e.g. to increase interest in participation and allow the group to be more highly specialized in a particular aspect or common goal and take advantage of customer s natural tendencies to socialize as well as to share information with those in similar situations for instance in forums . By leveraging the vast amount of customer profile data for example sponsoring enterprises may use the automated agent to build seemingly diverse groups of customers who may be experts in particular areas important to the enterprises e.g. based on the customers interactions with the enterprises contact centers and automated agents .

For example in one embodiment the customer directory module uses a language detection module to ascertain which language spoken or written is being communicated from the customer. For instance the language detection module may analyze communication samples from the customer spoken or written to detect the language comparing the samples to known patterns of languages. The language detection module may then store or update the information in the customer profile to reflect this determination. The language detection module may also use the customer profile to help determine the language. For example the customer profile may maintain a list of languages used by the customer with further refinement by preference type of communication etc.

In one embodiment the customer directory module has a preferred live agent skills module for determining which skills of live agents such as soft skills are preferred by or effective with the customer. The preferred live agent skills module for example may use outputs from the customer emotion and mood detection module to determine which soft skills in a live agent would be a good match for the customer. The preferred live agent skills module may also use feedback from existing interactions with live agents and those live agents skills as may be maintained for example in the live agent database to determine preferred live agent skills for the customer.

In one embodiment the customer directory module has a voice recognition module for recognizing identifying and or verifying the voice pattern of the customer. The voice recognition module for example may use voice samples from the Customer collected over time and stored in the customer profile to determine the identity of the customer during interactions or to verify the identity of the customer such as with fraud detection etc. Such voice samples for example may be collected after verifying identity through other methods such as security questions or passwords and may be collected specifically for later recognition purposes such as by providing specific voice samples as part of an interaction or may be collected over time from regular interactions with the contact center.

In one embodiment the customer directory module has a conversation pattern module for detecting the conversation pattern of the customer. For example the conversation pattern module may detect if the customer is talking quickly or slowly clearly or not clearly etc. To this end the conversation pattern module may provide input to the customer emotion and mood detection module to help in determining the customer s moods sentiments etc. The conversation pattern may be stored in the customer profile for developing a more complete picture of the customer for example saving multiple conversation patterns over multiple interactions . The conversation pattern module may detect the conversation pattern of the customer during conversations with automated agents or with live agents.

In one embodiment the customer directory module has a preferred media channels module for determining the preferred media channels of the customer. This information may be stored for example in the customer profile The preferred media channels module may use for example information from the existing interactions between the customer and the contact center to determine the preferred media channels of the customer. For example the customer may always or almost always use a particular media channel such as e mail or smartphone to contact the contact center. Information about the particular media channel such as phone number type of smartphone type of e mail e.g. plain text rich HTML etc. may also be stored in the customer profile to further assist for example with exploiting whatever features or accommodating for any limitations that are inherent in the preferred media channels of the customer. In one embodiment the preferred media channels module may obtain the preferred media channels of the customer by directly asking the customer.

In one embodiment the customer directory module has a customer location module for determining the location of the customer. The customer location module may determine for example if the customer is at work at home or travelling e.g. in a different state or country or in a different part of the same town or city of the customer s work or home . The customer location module may use the phone number that the customer is using to contact the contact center for example a phone call or the IP address of the customer s computer for example a live chat or the GPS tracking information for example a smartphone interaction to pinpoint a customer s location. The customer s location may be useful for example for building the customer profile of the customer to determine the customer s preferred media channels and under what circumstances to assist the customer with a particular problem such as if the customer needs live help at their current location etc.

In one embodiment still other modules may be part of the customer directory module . For example in one embodiment the other modules may include a module for determining a customer s credit score. For instance the credit score module may obtain the customer s permission to obtain their credit score. The credit score module may for example obtain the necessary information to obtain the credit score e.g. legal name social security number etc. by asking the customer directly or by searching the customer profile . The credit score module may then use this information to contact a credit score reporting bureau for example over the Internet supply the appropriate input information fee and whatever further inputs are needed to obtain the credit score of the customer and then obtain the credit score. The credit score may be useful for example in determining what programs or services are available to the customer providing a credit risk of the customer etc.

In one embodiment the live agent pool administration module contains an available live agent pool module for overseeing a pool of available live agents for the enterprise. These agents may be selected from the live agent database and may for example be employed by or assigned to a particular enterprise based on the enterprise s arrangement for example own lease outsource contract with the contact center. The pool may include those agents currently on duty e.g. at work and able to handle customer interactions which may be further broken down for example by free or busy depending on factors such as whether a particular agent is currently assisting another customer in an exclusive interaction or is otherwise not available . The live agent pool is dynamic continually adjusting depending on the circumstances. For example in one embodiment the live agent pool represents experts in a particular area such as tax advisors with appropriate certification offering their services for instance for tax preparation. Customers may engage the services of these experts by contacting the contact center.

In one embodiment the live agent pool administration module may have an enrollment interface module where experts may specify for example their profile potentially with proof of certification their hours of service and their fees. The enrollment interface module collects the necessary information for example though an online GUI from a prospective expert. Upon acceptance into the pool of live agents for example online experts may be selected based upon pre defined criteria such as acceptable proof of certification availability and rates that meet the requirements of the organization setting up the pool the prospective expert s profile information is added to the live agent database .

In other embodiments experts may be accepted into the pool of live agents in different ways. For example experts may be chosen by administrative assignment or by competitive bidding with admission after checking compliance with criteria such as required skills or necessary certifications . When the expert is available to answer customer contacts the live agent pool administration module may assign the expert to the available live agent pool where the expert is assigned to customers as needed.

For example in one embodiment prospective customers of the experts e.g. taxpayers in need of help for tax preparation would be presented with an interface via an end user interface module . The end user interface module exposes the expert s service to end users for example though a web interface or through an 800 number type call service. The service may also be operated as an add on service by companies selling tax preparation products such as computer tax preparation products . The live agent pool administration module may also interact with the other components of the intelligent agent for example the customer portal module the back office services module or the customer directory module to facilitate operations and take advantage of the services of these components.

In one embodiment the live agent pool administration module maintains contact information of members of an online social community through an online social community module . This may be a less formal interface where prospective experts in for example an online social community such as an online forum may be invited by or may solicit the online social community module to act as virtual agents to assist other users. These virtual agents may have specialized knowledge advanced expertise or significant experience for example they may be experts in shoes or other retail products such as on line retail products as demonstrated for instance in their online social community activity. Such virtual agents may help advise others in a more personal and efficient manner than an online community through an interface similar to the expert live agents enterprise managed by the available live agent pool module the enrollment interface module and the end user interface module .

In one embodiment the online social community module employs the same or similar modules to the available live agent pool module the enrollment interface module and the end user interface module . These interfaces may be simplified in that the virtual agents may not be working as employees or contractors of an enterprise and the customers seeking help may be looking for free advice but the concepts of agent availability and matching of customers to virtual agents are similar and may exploit the same or similar modules. For example in one embodiment the profiles of the virtual agents are maintained in the same live agent database as the regular live agents. The virtual agents could be available for shifts as a temporary assignment.

The virtual agents may work in this capacity for various reasons for example pro bono altruism obtain experience as a contact center agent which could lead for example to a paid position as a contact center live agent for an enterprise discounts on products for example shoes for which they help provide advice etc. For example in one embodiment such virtual agents are tracked by the same or similar tools to tracking live agents which may help maintain a level of consistency and quality for customers and help the virtual agents demonstrate their skills in ways that may be observed and appreciated by others.

In one embodiment the online social community module determines the number of virtual agents depending on business type and scope as well as the community conversation. For example some business types such as automobiles may require more expertise which could lead to a need for more virtual agents than other business types such as toothpaste. The online social community module for example may examine online community conversation for the number of questions in addition to the length and number of corresponding answers to gauge how much activity there is and how much need there is for virtual agents.

In one embodiment the live agent pool administration module operates a market place for contact center services through a market place interface module . For example the market place interface module may offer business process outsourcing. In one embodiment the market place interface module publishes demand for contact center services on an on line marketplace for example on a web page . In response to these demand contact center service providers may use the market place interface module for example via the web page interface to submit their bids for providing the contact center services.

In response to these bids the market place interface module may select from these offered bids by considering many factors such as the actual demand the service fees the bidders reputation etc. For example the market place interface module may use pre defined criteria such as the bid the previous experiences between the bidder and the market place interface module e.g. successful or unsuccessful bids customer feedback from customers of the outsourcing etc. in selecting a contact center services provider to award the bid. In one embodiment the automated agent may administer the auction of different contact centers offerings and find the best match for the collaborating group based on such pre defined criteria.

In one embodiment the intelligent automated agent may be instantiated at a more global level such as global automated agent which oversees numerous enterprise automated agents such as enterprise automated agents and . For example in one embodiment the global automated agent may observe and have access to all activity in the subordinate enterprise automated agents and . For instance the global automated agent may be able to access each of the enterprise automated agent s using enterprise automated agent as a representative enterprise automated agent customer profiles live agent database etc. which may be generally called databases hereinafter . In one embodiment the global automated agent merges and consolidates the databases from the separate enterprise automated agents underneath. In this fashion deeper customer profiles live agent databases and other databases and functions are available at the global automated agent level.

This merger and consolidation of enterprise automated agent level data may take place for example by replicating the enterprise automated agent data at the global automated agent or by maintaining pointers to each of the respective enterprise automated agent level database entries and doing the merger and consolidation of the pointers at the global automated agent when the same entity e.g. customer live agent etc. is identified at multiple enterprise automated agents as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. In one embodiment the sharing of certain enterprise automated agent data may be restricted for confidentiality reasons between the enterprises.

For example enterprise automated agents and may be working on behalf of banks say Bank A and Bank B respectively while enterprise automated agent may be working on behalf an airline say Airline C . A longstanding customer of Bank A may approach Bank B for some business purpose. Some or all of the customer profile data obtained by Bank A for the customer may be of interest to Bank B. While enterprise automated agent for Bank A may not interact directly with enterprise automated agent for Bank B the two enterprise automated agents are connected through the global automated agent which may exchange the customer information between enterprise automated agent and enterprise automated agent subject for example to an agreement between Bank A and Bank B on what information may be shared via the global automated agent .

Continuing with this example Airline C may be doing a business transaction with someone pretending to be the longstanding customer of Bank A. While enterprise automated agent for Bank A and enterprise automated agent for Airline C do not interact directly they do share the global automated agent which may employ fraud detection information for the longstanding customer acquired by enterprise automated agent to block the transaction with enterprise automated agent .

For example the central automated agent may provide a central entry point to the contact centers of a set of subscribed businesses for example enterprises A B and C . A customer of any one of these businesses and who uses or is familiar with the interface of the central automated agent may then be familiar with the interface for the other subscribed businesses. Further information for example contact information shared between the different businesses as facilitated by the shared central automated agent may only have to be provided once by the customer and would then be available to all of the subscribed businesses. This may lead to increased efficiency e.g. avoiding duplication of effort accuracy and consistency of interactions between customers and the enterprises compared to for example each enterprise obtaining the same or similar information separately or with different interfaces.

The customer automated agent using customer automated agent as an exemplary customer automated agent for example may be personalized to the particular customer or further personalized from the interface presented by the central automated agent or contain personal information such as personal information not stored in the central automated agent or provide a more efficient or offline interface to the contact center. For example the customer automated agent may maintain a customer profile similar to or the same as the customer profile for that customer on the central automated agent .

In one embodiment the customer automated agent may be dedicated to a particular enterprise such as a dedicated automated agent app for a smartphone PDA tablet computer etc. This may be appropriate for example for large enterprises that may spend the effort to develop and maintain their own automated agent app. Here the customer automated agent may work or collaborate with an enterprise automated agent that is also dedicated to providing contact center services for the enterprise. In another embodiment the customer automated agent may work directly with the enterprise contact center maintaining all of the automated agent logic and databases local to the customer automated agent and without going through for example an enterprise automated agent .

In one embodiment the customer automated agent may be a generic automated agent app that may serve multiple enterprises. For example the generic automated agent app may be configured to work or collaborate with a central automated agent that serves the multiple enterprises such as the central automated agent in . The customer using the generic automated agent app may select for example a particular enterprise with which to contact which would cause enterprise specific data to be loaded on or made accessible to the customer device through the generic automated agent app. In another embodiment the customer automated agent may work directly with the different enterprises contact centers maintaining all of the automated agent logic and databases local to the customer automated agent and without going through for example a central automated agent .

In one embodiment the customer automated agent may operate in an offline mode e.g. disconnected from the central automated agent . For example the customer may update and enter data such as personal data e.g. change of address ranking of particular live agents with which the customer has interacted with the enterprise contact center . This personal data may then be submitted to the contact center for example when the customer automated agent is offline with for example interacts with the central automated agent at which point the central automated agent may consider the data in deciding how to handle future interactions with the customer.

In one embodiment the customer automated agent may communicate the customer s status to the contact center. For example the customer automated agent may let the contact center know e.g. through the central automated agent whether the customer may be contacted by a live agent e.g. passive availability or whether the customer would like to talk to a live agent at a time convenient to the contact center e.g. an active conversation request . This and other personalized data may be submitted through the customer automated agent to the given contact center e.g. through the central automated agent for consideration in future interactions.

In one embodiment the customer automated agent may synchronize with the contact center e.g. with the central automated agent periodically and update each other s databases such as the customer profile accordingly. For instance the customer may have new contact data such as a change of address to share with the contact center while the contact center may have a new business opportunity to share with the customer. This may provide for a more efficient way to communicate or update customer profile information between the customer and the contact center versus for example having the central automated agent request the data from the customer during the various interactions that the customer has with the contact center . It may also improve accuracy of content of such information since the customer may have easier or more direct access to the customer profile data through their customer automated agent than through the interfaces with the central automated agent . For example such synchronization may allow faster and more accurate updating of contact data between the customer and the contact center or timelier or more effective delivery of new business offerings or promotions from the contact center to the customer.

The intelligent automated agent of may include an automated customer greeting module for greeting interactions between customers and the contact center a customer directory module for storing and retrieving data on customers a rules system module for developing authoring and evaluating business rules a mobile services module for allowing developers to build mobile applications a social media module for obtaining information on the customer from social media channels a workload distribution module for distributing work tasks to the appropriate resources a content analyzer module for analyzing the content of communications for example text based communications a speech recognition module for recognizing speech communicated to the contact center from the customer a speech synthesis module for converting text to speech for delivery to the customer an enterprise integration module for customizing or integrating the automated agent with existing applications of a contact center an artificial intelligence engine module tailored to the needs of the automated agent and an avatar module for communicating with the customers using a combination of voice and or video channels.

The automated customer greeting module may serve as a first point of contact between a customer and the contact center. The customer greeting module may serve several functions such as identifying the customer identifying the reason for the interaction and choosing a first routing of the interaction to a more appropriate component contact live agent etc. depending on factors such as the nature of the interaction. In one embodiment the automated customer greeting module may be the iCFD intelligent Customer Front Door available from Genesys Telecommunications Laboratories Inc. Genesys . Genesys and iCFD are trademarks of Genesys. In one exemplary embodiment the automated customer greeting module uses iCFD with an avatar impersonation as implemented for example by the avatar module for the customer to interact with in place of an IVR type interface.

iCFD is a call routing application that collects a customer s intent based on what they say using speech recognition determines how to treat the call based on that input and feedback from the back end systems customer relations management CRM systems and other data and determines proactively where the customer should be routed and what service should be provided whether live agent assisted self service or with appropriate extensions to an automated agent. iCFD thus manages and routes every interaction provides a consistent experience across all channels identifies determines intent and directs the customer to the right place provides a single point of contact such as a single phone number to access all services collects information from back end systems and provides responses based on back end inputs and events provides a tailored customer experience provides opportunities for cross sell and up sell and provides access to any service from any service.

An example interaction in the automated customer greeting module of may be started by a customer calling the contact center and being routed to the customer front door module. The customer front door module works with the speech recognition engine to recognize what the customer wants. The phrases used by the customer during the speech recognition are saved in the user phrases database for later optimization. The interpretation of what the customer wants is sent to the CIM module. The CIM module decides where to route the caller. For example the CIM module may route the call directly to a live agent. The CIM module may instead to route the call to the self service IVR module.

The self service IVR module may use for example automated speech recognition ASR or dual tone multi frequency DTMF signaling e.g. touch tones to easily automate many possible transactions. The results of the IVR transaction may be sent back to the CIM module. For instance the customer may have a question that cannot be addressed by the self service IVR module in which case the CIM module may route the customer s call to a live agent. The live agent may then get a prompt from the CIM module about the incoming call for example saying that the customer has just used the self service IVR module and has a question for a live agent .

The customer directory module may store and retrieve customer data such as in a customer data database which may be stored on a nonvolatile storage device such as a disk drive or a cloud drive . Data on customers for example as acquired from interactions with the customer may be stored and later retrieved by the customer directory module . In one embodiment the customer directory module may be for storing and retrieving customer profile data as built up for example through interactions between the customer and one or more contact centers. In one embodiment the customer directory module may be the UCS Universal Contact Server available from Genesys.

The rules system module may be for developing authoring and evaluating business rules such as in an extended markup language XML such as VoiceXML VXML an XML format for specifying interactive voice dialogues between a human and a computer and that may be interpreted by a voice browser. In one embodiment the rules system module may be the GRS Genesys Rules System available from Genesys. In one embodiment the rules system module may utilize the rules technology described in Ristock et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 689 750 WORKLOAD DISTRIBUTION WITH RESOURCE AWARENESS filed Nov. 29 2012 and Ristock et al. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 689 753 SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR TESTING AND DEPLOYING RULES filed Nov. 30 2012 the entire contents of both of which are incorporated herein by reference. In one embodiment the rules system module may utilize the Rete algorithm see for example Rete algorithm Wikipedia www.wikipedia.org as captured on Mar. 14 2013 last modified Feb. 26 2013 the entire content of which is herein incorporated by reference or may be done with other suitable rules technologies.

The mobile services module may provide services and APIs application programming interfaces for assisting developers create mobile applications for use with the intelligent automated agent of . In one embodiment the mobile services module may be the GMS Genesys Mobile Services available from Genesys.

The social media module may be for obtaining information on the customer from social media channels. The social media module for example may allow the customer to interact with the contact center by going through the social media such as a social networking site like Facebook . The social media module may also obtain customer profile information on the customer through the social media which may result in a faster more accurate and less intrusive manner of obtaining such data versus asking the customer directly. In one embodiment the social media module may be the Genesys Social Media Solution available from Genesys.

The workload distribution module may be for distributing work tasks to the appropriate resources. Interactions between the customer and the contact center through the automated agent may create these work tasks. Some of these work tasks may be more appropriately handled by resources outside of the direct control of the automated agent for example the customer may request a live agent . Depending on factors such as the nature e.g. severity complexity priority business value etc. of the work task the service level agreement SLA between the customer and the contact center etc. the workload distribution module may assign the work task to a separate resource such as a live agent or back office staff member. In one embodiment the workload distribution module may be the iWD intelligent Workload Distribution available from Genesys.

The content analyzer module may be for analyzing the content of communications for example text based communications between the customer and the contact center to increase the efficiency accuracy and consistency of text based communications. By way of example the content analyzer module may use natural language processing technology to analyze the text based content and determine how to accurately process and or respond to the communication. In one embodiment the content analyzer module may be the eServices Content Analyzer available from Genesys.

The speech recognition module may be for recognizing speech communicated to the contact center from the customer through for example telephone or other voice based communication devices and converting the speech for example to corresponding words or text. The speech recognition module may use customer data as obtained for example during voice recognition of the customer to identify personal characteristics of the customer such as the language being spoken by the customer the dialect being spoken by the customer and or particular speech habits of the customer as may be learned over time for example from interactions with the customer . In one embodiment the speech recognition module may be the ASR Automated Speech Recognition component of the GVP Genesys Voice Platform available from Genesys.

The speech synthesis module may be for converting text to speech for example when returning communication from an automated agent to a customer that is receiving communication through a speech based device such as a telephone . In one embodiment the speech synthesis module may be the TTS Text To Speech component of the GVP Genesys Voice Platform available from Genesys.

The enterprise integration module may be for customizing or integrating the automated agent with existing applications of the contact center for a particular enterprise. In one embodiment the enterprise integration module may be the Genesys SDKs Software Development Kits available from Genesys. For example the Genesys SDKs may be used for integrating the existing applications with Genesys FWK Framework GVP Genesys Voice Platform Genesys URS Universal Routing Server and Genesys Media Layer all available from Genesys in order for the automated agent to become the first respondent for customer interactions at the contact center for the enterprise as well as for connectivity between a central automated agent and two or more separate enterprise automated agents.

The artificial intelligence engine module may be tailored to the needs of the intelligent automated agent and be a source of intelligence for the intelligent automated agent. In one embodiment the artificial intelligence engine module uses Petri nets or Petri net modules for example to build connections over time from learned behavior . The artificial intelligence engine module may learn from past interactions with customers to better handle future interactions with customers. In one embodiment the artificial intelligence engine module may be configured to provide the automated agent particular traits or capabilities that would be suitable for use in a contact center. These traits or capabilities include deduction reasoning problem solving knowledge representation and commonsense knowledge planning learning natural language processing perception creativity and suitable general intelligence for use in the contact center.

In one embodiment the artificial intelligence engine module may utilize the Petri net technology described in Kishinski et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 178 239 TELEPHONY CALL CENTER SCRIPTING BY PETRI NET PRINCIPLES AND TECHNIQUES the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference or may be done with other suitable Petri net technologies. illustrates an example neural network for an artificial intelligence engine such as artificial intelligence engine module of of an intelligent automated agent according to one embodiment of the present invention. Neural networks may be modeled as Petri nets.

The artificial intelligence engine module is not limited to Petri net technologies. For example in other embodiments the artificial intelligence engine module may use learning capabilities such as feedback loop for quality of text categorization such as for doing textual content analysis . In one embodiment the feedback loop may use a suggested classification that can be approved or rejected corrected which can then be fed back into the classification engine to trigger further adjustment.

In one embodiment the artificial intelligence engine module may be configured to learn a certain response in the context of the contact center by finding patterns in a stream of input to find a solution for a customer. In addition the intelligent automated agent may be configured to learn through both classification and numerical regression. Classification is used to determine what category something belongs in after seeing a number of examples of things from several categories. A form of classification is text categorization or text classification such as natural language text categorization where text such as e mail chat web self service speech recognition output etc. is categorized or classified into categories based on the content of the text such as the number of times particular words or phrases may appear in the content .

Generally speaking the categories are fairly numerous representing enough detail or specificity to enable for example the corresponding request to be routed to the appropriate resource or for an intelligent automatic response to be generated or for recommendations to be provided to a live agent handling the request. The categories for example may be organized in a tree like structure such as the category tree of . illustrates a somewhat simplified example category tree structure for a set of categories for a banking institution. The various nodes such as Root Banking Loans Open Accounts and Auto Loans represent categories with the leaves e.g. Open Accounts and Auto Loans being the most specific categories. For example the leaves may represent the categories of possible requests with various responses such as Standard Response 1 and Standard Response 2 with the Open Accounts category available for requests that fall into that category.

One goal of automatic text classification as may be performed by the artificial intelligence engine module is be able to classify a new next T into its correct category C without live agent intervention. To this end the artificial intelligence engine module may learn or be trained to perform the categorization by being provided text examples that belong to the category C and text examples that do not belong to the category C. The artificial intelligence engine module may then be presented with the question does the new text T belong to the category C In one embodiment the artificial intelligence engine module may answer this question by breaking the text examples into words for example using lexical preprocessing and features extraction to obtains words or stems such as word frequency . Features weighting and or features selection may then be used to obtain vectors using for example techniques such as information gain or chi square .

Vectors in turn can be classified by various vector classification algorithms including kNN k nearest neighbor perceptron decision trees and decision rules such as decision tree learning neural networks which may be modeled as Petri nets support vector machines Bayes point such as Bayes point machines bagging boosting paradigm such as bootstrap aggregating kernel methods such as kernel paradigm .

Numerical regression on the other hand is the attempt to produce a function that describes the relationship between inputs and outputs and predicts how the outputs should change as the inputs change. Moreover the intelligent automated agent may be configured to learn through reinforcement learning in which the agent is rewarded for good responses and punished for bad ones. That is every action by the intelligent automated agent is recorded by an intelligent recording system through a data base and the recording system provides feedback in the form of rewards that guides the learning algorithm. In one embodiment the intelligent automated agent may be configured to learn its own inductive bias based on previous experience.

In one embodiment the intelligent automated agent may be configured as a part of an automated online assistant that uses artificial intelligence to provide customer service or other assistance on for example a website. Such an assistant for example may be composed of a dialog system an avatar and an expert system to provide specific expertise to the customer.

In one embodiment the main function of the dialog system of the automated online assistant is to translate the human generated input into a digital format that the automated online assistant may use for further processing by its expert system as well as interpret whatever solutions or replies it generates back to what a human user understands and optimally in a way as natural and user friendly as possible. The dialog system may include a natural language processor. In addition the dialog systems may have integrated chatterbots giving them more or less an ability to engage in small talk or casual conversations unrelated to the scope of their expert systems or to simply make the dialog feel more natural.

The avatar of an automated online assistant may be called an interactive online character or automated character. The avatar may make the automated online assistant into a form of an embodied agent. The avatar aims to enhance human computer interaction by simulating real world conversations and experience. Such an interaction model may be constructed to guide conversations in planned directions or allow characters to guide natural language exchanges. Because such characters may express social roles and emotions of real people they may increase the trust that users place in online experiences. The level of interactiveness increases the perceived realism and effectiveness of such actors which translates into more prosperous on line services and commerce.

An automated online assistant may also have an expert system that provides specific service whose scope depends on the purpose of it. This system may be described as the intelligent automated agent that functions to perceive the needs of customers in order to perform proper reactions by various structured systems.

The avatar module may be for delivery of communications from the intelligent automated agent to the customer over a combination of voice and or video channels. By way of example the avatar as implemented by the avatar module may be a computer animated person for communicating with the customer over for example a smartphone or laptop computer via an app or web interface. In one embodiment the avatar may be part of an enterprise intelligent automated agent. For example the avatar may present a consistent interface between the enterprise and the customers. In one embodiment the avatar may replace an IVR type interface for example when the automated customer greeting module is iCFD .

In one embodiment the avatar for the enterprise is the same for all customers while in another embodiment the avatar may be customized by the enterprise and or the customer. Depending on the customer communication channel being used for example smartphone plain telephone PDA web social media instant messaging etc. the avatar may appear or be heard in visual and or audio form. In one embodiment the avatar module uses existing avatar technology for graphical rendering as would be available to one of ordinary skill in the art.

A customer may contact the contact center for example by using customer phone to initiate a voice interaction with the contact center. The customer call goes over PSTN and then by trunk line to switch which routes the call to IVR server . In this example use scenario for instance the enterprise may have an existing IVR server that serves as the first point of contact of every outside customer call and may route calls to the automated agent in appropriate circumstances such as at the customer s request. The IVR server may obtain the identity of the customer for example by having the customer enter an identification code such as an account number . The IVR server may also ask the customer if they would like to be transferred to the automated agent .

When the customer requests the automated agent the automated agent may retrieve the customer profile data for the customer using for example the identification code supplied by the customer to the IVR server from the context database and load the customer profile into dynamic memory for example on the server computer hosting the automated agent . The automated agent may also request the switch to connect the customer s call to the automated agent instead of to the IVR server . The switch responds by connecting the customer s call to the automated agent for further handling. After the call the automated agent updates the customer profile in the context database with the information obtained from the just completed interaction with the customer.

From this point the automated agent interacts with the customer based for example on its artificial intelligence engine the customer profile data for the customer already loaded into its dynamic memory and the customer s current behavior and responses. As a result the automated agent may provide far more personalized customer service than possible with the IVR server or even a live agent . In addition the customer service continues to become more personalized with further interactions between the customer and the automated agent from for example the refining artificial intelligence engine and the building customer profile that comes from more interactions and contact time between the automated agent and the customer or between the customer and other aspects of the contact center such as live agents IVR server back office web mobile etc. which also insert relevant data into the customer profile and thus into the context database allowing the automated agent to continue learning about the customer even in the absence of direct interaction .

The automated agent is thus aware of and learning from or building upon all interactions between the customer and the contact center becoming more personalized over time with each succeeding interaction between the customer and the contact center. By contrast the IVR server tends to maintain constant customer service over time while most live agents may show only a small improvement in personalization. For example large contact centers may route the same customer among several live agents over time because of factors such as the work schedule of the live agents their job duration the availability of live agents at any particular moment in time etc. and live agents ability to remember much of the personal details of the customer diminishes with the large number of interactions they have with other customers between interactions with the same customer.

A customer may contact the contact center for example by using customer phone to initiate a voice interaction with the contact center. The customer call goes over PSTN and then by trunk line to switch which routes the call to IVR server . In this example use scenario for instance the enterprise may attempt to transfer all incoming calls to live agents when available . Accordingly after the IVR server obtains the identity of the customer for example as in the example use scenario in control of the call may pass to the call server for connection to a live agent such as live agent or . The call server in turn may attempt to route the call to a live agent by making a request to the routing server . Upon receiving this request the routing server may consult the stat server to see if any live agents are currently available. If the stat server responds back to the routing server that no live agents are currently available the routing server may decide for example based on the enterprise contact center s policy or strategy that the call should be routed to the automated agent versus for example putting the customer on hold for what may be a lengthy period of time .

Accordingly in this example use scenario of the routing server ultimately responds back to the call server to transfer the call to the automated agent . The call server may then send any collected user information such as the identity of the caller to the automated agent and may notify the switch to route the call to the automated agent . With the received user information the automated agent may retrieve the customer profile data for the customer e.g. as in with above from the context database and load the customer profile into dynamic memory for example on the server computer hosting the automated agent . The switch may then connect the customer s call to the automated agent . The automated agent then services the customer call for example to the call s resolution . After the call the automated agent updates the customer profile in the context database with the information obtained from the just completed interaction with the customer.

The example use scenario of is thus an example of using the automated agent as a substitute agent such as for help in overflow situations when the contact center s live agent staff is being fully utilized. To this end while the automated agent is at times described above as a single entity as one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate the automated agent may be implemented as a series of tasks on one or more computers such as server computers and these tasks replicated and run concurrently to create the effect of multiple automated agents . These multiple automated agents may all share the context database . The contact center could then provide sufficient automated agents by providing sufficient computing resources for example enough server computers or increased processing capability within each server computer as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

In the network IVR platform of the SSP may transfer the call to either the service control point SCP or the IVR server. Depending on qualification factors such as the phone number dialed the call may be routed to the IVR server for IVR handling of the call. The IVR server may communicate with the rest of the contact center via the I Server ISRV. For example the IVR server may find a live agent to route the call to by making a request to the universal routing server URS. The I Server may also be connected to a Network T Server NTS and a statistics server SS.

In addition to transferring the call to the SCP directly for example for calls that do not qualify for IVR handling the IVR server may direct an incoming call to a particular live agent such as a live agent selected by the routing server URS after possibly consulting the statistics server SS in the network IVR platform of using for example a two step process. First the call is rerouted at the SSP to the SCP. Then the SCP connects the call to the particular live agent within the contact center. This is a more direct and less resource consuming approach to redirecting the current call than say routing the call through e.g. tromboning on the IVR.

While the present invention has been described in connection with certain exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

