---

title: Composition comprising antibody that binds to domain II of HER2 and acidic variants thereof
abstract: A composition comprising a main species HER2 antibody that binds to domain II of HER2 and acidic variants thereof is described. Pharmaceutical formulations comprising the composition, and therapeutic uses for the composition are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09181346&OS=09181346&RS=09181346
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 09181346
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140123
---
This is a divisional application which claims priority under 35 USC 120 to non provisional application Ser. No. 12 361 180 filed on Jan. 28 2009 which claims priority under 35 USC 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 024 825 filed on Jan. 30 2008 the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in entirety for all purposes.

The present invention concerns a composition comprising a main species HER2 antibody that binds to domain II of HER2 and acidic variants thereof. The invention also relates to pharmaceutical formulations comprising the composition and therapeutic uses for the composition.

The HER family of receptor tyrosine kinases are important mediators of cell growth differentiation and survival. The receptor family includes four distinct members including epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR ErbB1 or HER1 HER2 ErbB2 or p185 HER3 ErbB3 and HER4 ErbB4 or tyro2 .

EGFR encoded by the erbB1 gene has been causally implicated in human malignancy. In particular increased expression of EGFR has been observed in breast bladder lung head neck and stomach cancer as well as glioblastomas. Increased EGFR receptor expression is often associated with increased production of the EGFR ligand transforming growth factor alpha TGF by the same tumor cells resulting in receptor activation by an autocrine stimulatory pathway. Baselga and Mendelsohn 64 127 154 1994 . Monoclonal antibodies directed against the EGFR or its ligands TGF and EGF have been evaluated as therapeutic agents in the treatment of such malignancies. See e.g. Baselga and Mendelsohn. supra Masui et al. 44 1002 1007 1984 and Wu et al. 95 1897 1905 1995 .

The second member of the HER family p185 was originally identified as the product of the transforming gene from neuroblastomas of chemically treated rats. The activated form of the neu proto oncogene results from a point mutation valine to glutamic acid in the transmembrane region of the encoded protein. Amplification of the human homolog of neu is observed in breast and ovarian cancers and correlates with a poor prognosis Slamon et al. 235 177 182 1987 Slamon et al. 244 707 712 1989 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 968 603 . To date no point mutation analogous to that in the neu proto oncogene has been reported for human tumors. Overexpression of HER2 frequently but not uniformly due to gene amplification has also been observed in other carcinomas including carcinomas of the stomach endometrium salivary gland lung kidney colon thyroid pancreas and bladder. See among others King et al. 229 974 1985 Yokota et al. 1 765 767 1986 Fukushige et al. 6 955 958 1986 Guerin et al. 3 21 31 1988 Cohen et al. 4 81 88 1989 Yonemura et al. 51 1034 1991 Borst et al. 38 364 1990 Weiner et al. 50 421 425 1990 Kern et al. 50 5184 1990 Park et al. 49 6605 1989 Zhau et al. 3 254 257 1990 Aasland et al. 57 358 363 1988 Williams et al. 59 46 52 1991 and McCann et al. 65 88 92 1990 . HER2 may be overexpressed in prostate cancer Gu et al. 99 185 9 1996 Ross et al. 28 827 33 1997 Ross et al. 79 2162 70 1997 and Sadasivan et al. 150 126 31 1993 .

Antibodies directed against the rat p185and human HER2 protein products have been described. Drebin and colleagues have raised antibodies against the rat neu gene product p185See for example Drebin et al. 41 695 706 1985 Myers et al. 198 277 290 1991 and WO94 22478. Drebin et al. 2 273 277 1988 report that mixtures of antibodies reactive with two distinct regions of p185result in synergistic anti tumor effects on neu transformed NIH 3T3 cells implanted into nude mice. See also U.S. Pat. No. 5 824 311 issued Oct. 20 1998.

Hudziak et al. 9 3 1165 1172 1989 describe the generation of a panel of HER2 antibodies which were characterized using the human breast tumor cell line SK BR 3. Relative cell proliferation of the SK BR 3 cells following exposure to the antibodies was determined by crystal violet staining of the monolayers after 72 hours. Using this assay maximum inhibition was obtained with the antibody called 4D5 which inhibited cellular proliferation by 56 . Other antibodies in the panel reduced cellular proliferation to a lesser extent in this assay. The antibody 4D5 was further found to sensitize HER2 overexpressing breast tumor cell lines to the cytotoxic effects of TNF . See also U.S. Pat. No. 5 677 171 issued Oct. 14 1997. The HER2 antibodies discussed in Hudziak et al. are further characterized in Fendly et al. 50 1550 1558 1990 Kotts et al. In Vitro 26 3 59A 1990 Sarup et al. 1 72 82 1991 Shepard et al. 11 3 117 127 1991 Kumar et al. 11 2 979 986 1991 Lewis et al. 37 255 263 1993 Pietras et al. 9 1829 1838 1994 Vitetta et al. 54 5301 5309 1994 Sliwkowski et al. 269 20 14661 14665 1994 Scott et al. 266 14300 5 1991 D souza et al. 91 7202 7206 1994 Lewis et al. 56 1457 1465 1996 and Schaefer et al. 15 1385 1394 1997 .

A recombinant humanized version of the murine HER2 antibody 4D5 huMAb4D5 8 rhuMAb HER2 Trastuzumab or HERCEPTIN U.S. Pat. No. 5 821 337 is clinically active in patients with HER2 overexpressing metastatic breast cancers that have received extensive prior anti cancer therapy Baselga et al. 14 737 744 1996 . Trastuzumab received marketing approval from the Food and Drug Administration Sep. 25 1998 for the treatment of patients with metastatic breast cancer whose tumors overexpress the HER2 protein.

Other HER2 antibodies with various properties have been described in Tagliabue et al. 47 933 937 1991 McKenzie et al. 4 543 548 1989 Maier et al. 51 5361 5369 1991 Bacus et al. 3 350 362 1990 Stancovski et al. 88 8691 8695 1991 Bacus et al. 52 2580 2589 1992 Xu et al. 53 401 408 1993 WO94 00136 Kasprzyk et al. 52 2771 2776 1992 Hancock et al. 51 4575 4580 1991 Shawver et al. 54 1367 1373 1994 Arteaga et al. 54 3758 3765 1994 Harwerth et al. 267 15160 15167 1992 U.S. Pat. No. 5 783 186 and Klapper et al. 14 2099 2109 1997 .

Homology screening has resulted in the identification of two other HER receptor family members HER3 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 183 884 and 5 480 968 as well as Kraus et al. 86 9193 9197 1989 and HER4 EP Pat Appln No 599 274 Plowman et al. 90 1746 1750 1993 and Plowman et al. 366 473 475 1993 . Both of these receptors display increased expression on at least some breast cancer cell lines.

The HER receptors are generally found in various combinations in cells and heterodimerization is thought to increase the diversity of cellular responses to a variety of HER ligands Earp et al. 35 115 132 1995 . EGFR is bound by six different ligands epidermal growth factor EGF transforming growth factor alpha TGF amphiregulin heparin binding epidermal growth factor HB EGF betacellulin and epiregulin Groenen et al. 11 235 257 1994 . A family of heregulin proteins resulting from alternative splicing of a single gene are ligands for HER3 and HER4. The heregulin family includes alpha beta and gamma heregulins Holmes et al. 256 1205 1210 1992 U.S. Pat. No. 5 641 869 and Schaefer et al. 15 1385 1394 1997 neu differentiation factors NDFs glial growth factors GGFs acetylcholine receptor inducing activity ARIA and sensory and motor neuron derived factor SMDF . For a review see Groenen et al. 11 235 257 1994 Lemke G. . 7 247 262 1996 and Lee et al. 47 51 85 1995 . Recently three additional HER ligands were identified neuregulin 2 NRG 2 which is reported to bind either HER3 or HER4 Chang et al. 387 509 512 1997 and Carraway et at 387 512 516 1997 neuregulin 3 which binds HER4 Zhang et al. 94 18 9562 7 1997 and neuregulin 4 which binds HER4 Harari et al. 18 2681 89 1999 HB EGF betacellulin and epiregulin also bind to HER4.

While EGF and TGF do not bind HER2 EGF stimulates EGFR and HER2 to form a heterodimer which activates EGFR and results in transphosphorylation of HER2 in the heterodimer. Dimerization and or transphosphorylation appears to activate the HER2 tyrosine kinase. See Earp et al. supra. Likewise when HER3 is co expressed with HER2 an active signaling complex is formed and antibodies directed against HER2 are capable of disrupting this complex Sliwkowski et al. 269 20 14661 14665 1994 . Additionally the affinity of HER3 for heregulin HRG is increased to a higher affinity state when co expressed with HER2. See also Levi et al. 15 1329 1340 1995 Morrissey et al. 92 1431 1435 1995 and Lewis et al. 56 1457 1465 1996 with respect to the HER2 HER3 protein complex. HER4 like HER3 forms an active signaling complex with HER2 Carraway and Cantley 78 5 8 1994 .

To target the HER signaling pathway rhuMAb 2C4 Pertuzumab was developed as a humanized antibody that inhibits the dimerization of HER2 with other HER receptors thereby inhibiting ligand driven phosphorylation and activation and downstream activation of the RAS and AKT pathways. In a phase I trial of Pertuzumab as a single agent for treating solid tumors 3 subjects with advanced ovarian cancer were treated with pertuzumab. One had a durable partial response and an additional subject had stable disease for 15 weeks. Agus et al. 22 192 Abstract 771 2003 .

U.S. Pat. No. 6 339 142 describes a HER2 antibody composition comprising a mixture of anti HER2 antibody and one or more acidic variants thereof wherein the amount of the acidic variant s is less than about 25 . Trastuzumab is the exemplified HER2 antibody.

Reid et al. Poster presented at Well Characterized Biotech Pharmaceuticals conference January 2003 Effects of Cell Culture Process Changes on Humanized Antibody Characteristics describes an unnamed humanized IgG1 antibody composition with N terminal heterogeneities due to combinations of VHS signal peptide N terminal glutamine and pyroglutamic acid on the heavy chain thereof.

Harris et al. The Ideal Chromatographic Antibody Characterization Method talk presented at the IBC Antibody Production Conference February 2002 reports a VHS extension on the heavy chain of E25 a humanized anti IgE antibody.

Rouse et al. Poster presented at WCBP Top Down Glycoprotein Characterization by High Resolution Mass Spectrometry and Its Application to Biopharmaceutical Development Jan. 6 9 2004 describes a monoclonal antibody composition with N terminal heterogeneity resulting from AHS or HS signal peptide residues on the light chain thereof.

In a presentation at IBC Meeting September 2000 Strategic Use of Comparability Studies and Assays for Well Characterized Biologicals Jill Porter discussed a late eluting form of ZENAPAX with three extra amino acid residues on the heavy chain thereof.

US2006 0018899 describes a composition comprising a main species pertuzumab antibody and an amino terminal leader extension variant as well as other variant forms of the pertuzumab antibody.

According to a first aspect the invention concerns a composition comprising a main species HER2 antibody that binds to domain II of HER2 and acidic variants thereof wherein the acidic variants include glycated variant disulfide reduced variant or non reducible variant. Preferably the acidic variants include glycated variant deamidated variant disulfide reduced variant sialylated variant and non reducible variant. Desirably the amount of the acidic variants is less than about 25 .

In another aspect the invention provides a composition comprising a main species HER2 antibody comprising variable light and variable heavy sequences in SEQ ID Nos. 3 and 4 respectively and acidic variants of the main species antibody wherein the acidic variants include glycated variant deamidated variant disulfide reduced variant sialylated variant and non reducible variant.

The invention also concerns pharmaceutical formulations comprising the compositions in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Additionally the invention relates to a method of treating HER2 positive cancer in a patient comprising administering the pharmaceutical formulation to the patient in an amount effective to treat the cancer. With respect to such methods as demonstrated in the Example herein preferably the main species antibody and acidic variants have essentially the same pharmacokinetics.

In another aspect the invention concerns a method of making a pharmaceutical composition comprising 1 preparing a composition comprising a main species HER2 antibody that binds to domain II of HER2 and acidic variants thereof including glycated variant disulfide reduced variant or non reducible variant and 2 evaluating the acidic variants in the composition and confirming that the amount thereof is less than about 25 . In one embodiment the acidic variants are evaluated by a method selected from the group consisting of ion exchange chromatography wherein the composition is treated with sialidase reduced capilliary electrophoresis with sodium dodecyl sulfate CE SDS non reduced CE SDS boronate chromatography and peptide mapping.

The term main species antibody herein refers to the antibody amino acid sequence structure in a composition which is the quantitatively predominant antibody molecule in the composition. Preferably the main species antibody is a HER2 antibody such as an antibody that binds to Domain II of HER2 antibody that inhibits HER dimerization more effectively than Trastuzumab and or an antibody which binds to a heterodimeric binding site of HER2. The preferred embodiment herein of the main species antibody is one comprising the variable light and variable heavy amino acid sequences in SEQ ID Nos. 3 and 4 and most preferably comprising the light chain and heavy chain amino acid sequences in SEQ ID Nos. 15 and 16 Pertuzumab .

An amino acid sequence variant antibody herein is an antibody with an amino acid sequence which differs from a main species antibody. Ordinarily amino acid sequence variants will possess at least about 70 homology with the main species antibody and preferably they will be at least about 80 and more preferably at least about 90 homologous with the main species antibody. The amino acid sequence variants possess substitutions deletions and or additions at certain positions within or adjacent to the amino acid sequence of the main species antibody. Examples of amino acid sequence variants herein include an acidic variant e.g. a deamidated antibody variant a basic variant the antibody with an amino terminal leader extension e.g. VHS on one or two light chains thereof antibody with a C terminal lysine residue on one or two heavy chains thereof antibody with one or more oxidized methionine residues etc. and includes combinations of variations to the amino acid sequences of heavy and or light chains.

An acidic variant is a variant of the main species antibody which is more acidic than the main species antibody. An acidic variant has gained negative charge or lost positive charge relative to the main species antibody. Such acidic variants can be resolved using a separation methodology such as ion exchange chromatography that separates proteins according to charge. Acidic variants of a main species antibody elute earlier than the main peak upon separation by cation exchange chromatography.

A disulfide reduced variant has one more disulfide bonded cysteine s chemically reduced to the free thiol form. This variant can be monitored by hydrophobic interaction chromatography or by sizing methodology such as Capillary Electrophoresis with Sodium Dodecyl Sulfate CE SDS e.g. as described in Example 1. Herein a non reducible variant is a variant of the main species antibody that cannot be chemically reduced to heavy and light chain by treatment with a reducing agent such as dithiothreitol. Such variants can be assessed by treating the composition with a reducing agent and evaluating the resulting composition using a methodology that evaluates protein size such as Capillary Electrophoresis with Sodium Dodecyl Sulfate CE SDS for instance using the techniques described in Example 1 below.

A glycosylation variant antibody herein is an antibody with one or more carbohydrate moeities attached thereto which differ from one or more carbohydrate moieties attached to a main species antibody. Examples of glycosylation variants herein include antibody with a G1 or G2 oligosaccharide structure instead a G0 oligosaccharide structure attached to an Fc region thereof antibody with one or two carbohydrate moieties attached to one or two light chains thereof antibody with no carbohydrate attached to one or two heavy chains of the antibody antibody which is syalidated etc as well as combinations of such glycosylation alterations.

Where the antibody has an Fc region an oligosaccharide structure such as that shown in herein may be attached to one or two heavy chains of the antibody e.g. at residue 299. For Pertuzumab G0 was the predominant oligosaccharide structure with other oligosaccharide structures such as G0 F G 1 Man5 Man6 G1 1 G1 1 6 G1 1 3 and G2 being found in lesser amounts in the Pertuzumab composition.

Unless indicated otherwise a G1 oligosaccharide structure herein includes G1 1 6 and G1 1 3 structures.

For the purposes herein sialylated variant is a variant of the main species antibody comprising one or more sialylated carbohydrate moieties attached to one or two heavy chains thereof. A sialylated variant can be identified by evaluating a composition for example by ion exchange chromatography with or without sialidase treatment e.g. as described in the example.

A glycated variant is an antibody to which a sugar such as glucose has been covalently attached. This addition can occur by reaction of glucose with a lysine residue on the protein e.g. in cell culture media . A glycated variant can be identified by mass spectrometry analysis of the reduced antibody evaluating the increase in mass of heavy or light chains. A glycated variant can also be quantified by boronate chromatography as explained in Example 1 below. A glycated variant differs from a glycosylation variant.

A deamidated antibody is one in which one or more asparagine residues thereof has been derivitized e.g. to an aspartic acid a succinimide or an iso aspartic acid. An example of a deamidated antibody is a pertuzumab variant wherein Asn 386 and or Asn 391 on one or two heavy chains of pertuzumab are deamidated.

A amino terminal leader extension variant herein refers to a main species antibody with one or more amino acid residues of the amino terminal leader sequence at the amino terminus of any one or more heavy or light chains of the main species antibody. An exemplary amino terminal leader extension comprises or consists of three amino acid residues VHS present on one or both light chains of an antibody variant.

 Homology is defined as the percentage of residues in the amino acid sequence variant that are identical after aligning the sequences and introducing gaps if necessary to achieve the maximum percent homology. Methods and computer programs for the alignment are well known in the art. One such computer program is Align 2 authored by Genentech Inc. which was filed with user documentation in the United States Copyright Office Washington D.C. 20559 on Dec. 10 1991.

For the purposes herein cation exchange analysis refers to any method by which a composition comprising two or more compounds is separated based on charge differences using a cation exchanger. A cation exchanger generally comprises covalently bound negatively charged groups. Preferably the cation exchanger herein is a weak cation exchanger and or comprises a carboxylate functional group such as the PROPAC WCX 10 cation exchange column sold by Dionex.

A HER receptor is a receptor protein tyrosine kinase which belongs to the HER receptor family and includes EGFR HER2 HER3 and HER4 receptors and other members of this family to be identified in the future. The HER receptor will generally comprise an extracellular domain which may bind an HER ligand a lipophilic transmembrane domain a conserved intracellular tyrosine kinase domain and a carboxyl terminal signaling domain harboring several tyrosine residues which can be phosphorylated. Preferably the HER receptor is native sequence human HER receptor.

The extracellular domain of HER2 comprises four domains Domain I amino acid residues from about 1 195 Domain II amino acid residues from about 196 319 Domain III amino acid residues from about 320 488 and Domain IV amino acid residues from about 489 630 residue numbering without signal peptide . See Garrett et al. 11 495 505 2003 Cho et al. 421 756 760 2003 Franklin et al. 5 317 328 2004 or Plowman et al. 90 1746 1750 1993 . See also herein.

The terms ErbB1 HER1 epidermal growth factor receptor and EGFR are used interchangeably herein and refer to EGFR as disclosed for example in Carpenter et al. 56 881 914 1987 including naturally occurring mutant forms thereof e.g. a deletion mutant EGFR as in Humphrey et al. 87 4207 4211 1990 . erbB1 refers to the gene encoding the EGFR protein product.

The expressions ErbB2 and HER2 are used interchangeably herein and refer to human HER2 protein described for example in Semba et al. 82 6497 6501 1985 and Yamamoto et al. 319 230 234 1986 Genebank accession number X03363 . The term erbB2 refers to the gene encoding human ErbB2 and neu refers to the gene encoding rat p185. Preferred HER2 is native sequence human HER2.

 ErbB3 and HER3 refer to the receptor polypeptide as disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 183 884 and 5 480 968 as well as Kraus et al. 86 9193 9197 1989 .

The terms ErbB4 and HER4 herein refer to the receptor polypeptide as disclosed for example in EP Pat Appln No 599 274 Plowman et al. 90 1746 1750 1993 and Plowman et al. 366 473 475 1993 including isoforms thereof e.g. as disclosed in WO99 19488 published Apr. 22 1999.

By HER ligand is meant a polypeptide which binds to and or activates an HER receptor. The HER ligand of particular interest herein is a native sequence human HER ligand such as epidermal growth factor EGF Savage et al. 247 7612 7621 1972 transforming growth factor alpha TGF Marquardt et al. 223 1079 1082 1984 amphiregulin also known as schwanoma or keratinocyte autocrine growth factor Shoyab et al. 243 1074 1076 1989 Kimura et al. 348 257 260 1990 and Cook et al. 11 2547 2557 1991 betacellulin Shing et al. 259 1604 1607 1993 and Sasada et al. 190 1173 1993 heparin binding epidermal growth factor HB EGF Higashiyama et al. 251 936 939 1991 epiregulin Toyoda et al. 270 7495 7500 1995 and Komurasaki et al. 15 2841 2848 1997 a heregulin see below neuregulin 2 NRG 2 Carraway et al. 387 512 516 1997 neuregulin 3 NRG 3 Zhang et al. 94 9562 9567 1997 neuregulin 4 NRG 4 Harari et al. 18 2681 89 1999 or cripto CR 1 Kannan et al. 272 6 3330 3335 1997 . HER ligands which bind EGFR include EGF TGF amphiregulin betacellulin HB EGF and epiregulin. HER ligands which bind HER3 include heregulins. HER ligands capable of binding HER4 include betacellulin epiregulin HB EGF NRG 2 NRG 3 NRG 4 and heregulins.

 Heregulin HRG when used herein refers to a polypeptide encoded by the heregulin gene product as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 641 869 or Marchionni et al. 362 312 318 1993 . Examples of heregulins include heregulin heregulin 1 heregulin 2 and heregulin 3 Holmes et al. 256 1205 1210 1992 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 641 869 neu differentiation factor NDF Peles et al. 69 205 216 1992 acetylcholine receptor inducing activity ARIA Falls et al. 72 801 815 1993 glial growth factors GGFs Marchionni et al. 362 312 318 1993 sensory and motor neuron derived factor SMDF Ho et al. 270 14523 14532 1995 heregulin Schaefer et al. 15 1385 1394 1997 . The term includes biologically active fragments and or amino acid sequence variants of a native sequence HRG polypeptide such as an EGF like domain fragment thereof e.g. HRG e.g. HRG 1 .

A HER dimer herein is a noncovalently associated dimer comprising at least two different HER receptors. Such complexes may form when a cell expressing two or more HER receptors is exposed to an HER ligand and can be isolated by immunoprecipitation and analyzed by SDS PAGE as described in Sliwkowski et al. 269 20 14661 14665 1994 for example. Examples of such HER dimers include EGFR HER2 HER2 HER3 and HER3 HER4 heterodimers. Moreover the HER dimer may comprise two or more HER2 receptors combined with a different HER receptor such as HER3 HER4 or EGFR. Other proteins such as a cytokine receptor subunit e.g. gp130 may be associated with the dimer.

A heterodimeric binding site on HER2 refers to a region in the extracellular domain of HER2 that contacts or interfaces with a region in the extracellular domain of EGFR HER3 or HER4 upon formation of a dimer therewith. The region is found in Domain II of HER2. Franklin et al. 5 317 328 2004 .

 HER activation or HER2 activation refers to activation or phosphorylation of any one or more HER receptors or HER2 receptors. Generally HER activation results in signal transduction e.g. that caused by an intracellular kinase domain of a HER receptor phosphorylating tyrosine residues in the HER receptor or a substrate polypeptide . HER activation may be mediated by HER ligand binding to a HER dimer comprising the HER receptor of interest. HER ligand binding to a HER dimer may activate a kinase domain of one or more of the HER receptors in the dimer and thereby results in phosphorylation of tyrosine residues in one or more of the HER receptors and or phosphorylation of tyrosine residues in additional substrate polypeptides s such as Akt or MAPK intracellular kinases.

The term antibody herein is used in the broadest sense and specifically covers intact monoclonal antibodies polyclonal antibodies multispecific antibodies e.g. bispecific antibodies formed from at least two intact antibodies and antibody fragments so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity.

The term monoclonal antibody as used herein refers to an antibody obtained from a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies i.e. the individual antibodies comprising the population are identical and or bind the same epitope except for possible variants that may arise during production of the monoclonal antibody such as those variants described herein. In contrast to polyclonal antibody preparations that typically include different antibodies directed against different determinants epitopes each monoclonal antibody is directed against a single determinant on the antigen. In addition to their specificity the monoclonal antibodies are advantageous in that they are uncontaminated by other immunoglobulins. The modifier monoclonal indicates the character of the antibody as being obtained from a substantially homogeneous population of antibodies and is not to be construed as requiring production of the antibody by any particular method. For example the monoclonal antibodies to be used in accordance with the present invention may be made by the hybridoma method first described by Kohler et al. 256 495 1975 or may be made by recombinant DNA methods see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 . The monoclonal antibodies may also be isolated from phage antibody libraries using the techniques described in Clackson et al. 352 624 628 1991 and Marks et al. 222 581 597 1991 for example.

The monoclonal antibodies herein specifically include chimeric antibodies in which a portion of the heavy and or light chain is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from a particular species or belonging to a particular antibody class or subclass while the remainder of the chain s is identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from another species or belonging to another antibody class or subclass as well as fragments of such antibodies so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 and Morrison et al. 81 6851 6855 1984 . Chimeric antibodies of interest herein include primatized antibodies comprising variable domain antigen binding sequences derived from a non human primate e.g. Old World Monkey Ape etc and human constant region sequences.

 Antibody fragments comprise a portion of an intact antibody preferably comprising the antigen binding or variable region thereof. Examples of antibody fragments include Fab Fab F ab and Fv fragments diabodies linear antibodies single chain antibody molecules and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragment s .

An intact antibody is one which comprises an antigen binding variable region as well as a light chain constant domain C and heavy chain constant domains C1 C2 and C3. The constant domains may be native sequence constant domains e.g. human native sequence constant domains or amino acid sequence variants thereof. Preferably the intact antibody has one or more effector functions and comprises an oligosaccharide structure attached to one or two heavy chains thereof.

Antibody effector functions refer to those biological activities attributable to the Fc region a native sequence Fc region or amino acid sequence variant Fc region of an antibody. Examples of antibody effector functions include Clq binding complement dependent cytotoxicity Fc receptor binding antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity ADCC phagocytosis down regulation of cell surface receptors e.g. B cell receptor BCR etc.

The term Fc region herein is used to define a C terminal region of an immunoglobulin heavy chain including native sequence Fc regions and variant Fc regions. Although the boundaries of the Fc region of an immunoglobulin heavy chain might vary the human IgG heavy chain Fc region is usually defined to stretch from an amino acid residue at position Cys226 or from Pro230 to the carboxyl terminus thereof. The C terminal lysine residue 447 according to the EU numbering system of the Fc region may be removed for example during production or purification of the antibody or by recombinantly engineering the nucleic acid encoding a heavy chain of the antibody. Accordingly a composition of intact antibodies may comprise antibody populations with all K447 residues removed antibody populations with no K447 residues removed and antibody populations having a mixture of antibodies with and without the K447 residue.

Unless indicated otherwise herein the numbering of the residues in an immunoglobulin heavy chain is that of the EU index as in Kabat et al. 5th Ed. Public Health Service National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. 1991 . The EU index as in Kabat refers to the residue numbering of the human IgG1 EU antibody.

Depending on the amino acid sequence of the constant domain of their heavy chains intact antibodies can be assigned to different classes . There are five major classes of intact antibodies IgA IgD IgE IgG and IgM and several of these may be further divided into subclasses isotypes e.g. IgG1 IgG2 IgG3 IgG4 IgA and IgA2. The heavy chain constant domains that correspond to the different classes of antibodies are called and respectively. The subunit structures and three dimensional configurations of different classes of immunoglobulins are well known.

 Antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity and ADCC refer to a cell mediated reaction in which nonspecific cytotoxic cells that express Fc receptors FcRs e.g. Natural Killer NK cells neutrophils and macrophages recognize bound antibody on a target cell and subsequently cause lysis of the target cell. The primary cells for mediating ADCC NK cells express Fc RIII only whereas monocytes express Fc RI Fc RII and Fc RIII. FcR expression on hematopoietic cells in summarized is Table 3 on page 464 of Ravetch and Kinet 9 457 92 1991 . To assess ADCC activity of a molecule of interest an in vitro ADCC assay such as that described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 500 362 or 5 821 337 may be performed. Useful effector cells for such assays include peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC and Natural Killer NK cells. Alternatively or additionally ADCC activity of the molecule of interest may be assessed in vivo e.g. in a animal model such as that disclosed in Clynes et al. 95 652 656 1998 .

 Human effector cells are leukocytes which express one or more FcRs and perform effector functions. Preferably the cells express at least Fc RIII and perform ADCC effector function. Examples of human leukocytes which mediate ADCC include peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC natural killer NK cells monocytes cytotoxic T cells and neutrophils with PBMCs and NK cells being preferred. The effector cells may be isolated from a native source thereof e.g. from blood or PBMCs as described herein.

The terms Fc receptor or FcR are used to describe a receptor that binds to the Fc region of an antibody. The preferred FcR is a native sequence human FcR. Moreover a preferred FcR is one which binds an IgG antibody a gamma receptor and includes receptors of the Fc RI Fc RII and Fc RIII subclasses including allelic variants and alternatively spliced forms of these receptors. Fc RII receptors include Fc RIIA an activating receptor and Fc RIIB an inhibiting receptor which have similar amino acid sequences that differ primarily in the cytoplasmic domains thereof. Activating receptor Fc RIIA contains an immunoreceptor tyrosine based activation motif ITAM in its cytoplasmic domain Inhibiting receptor Fc RIIB contains an immunoreceptor tyrosine based inhibition motif ITIM in its cytoplasmic domain. see review M. in Da ron 15 203 234 1997 . FcRs are reviewed in Ravetch and Kinet 9 457 92 1991 Capel et al. 4 25 34 1994 and de Haas et al. 126 330 41 1995 . Other FcRs including those to be identified in the future are encompassed by the term FcR herein. The term also includes the neonatal receptor FcRn which is responsible for the transfer of maternal IgGs to the fetus Guyer et al. 117 587 1976 and Kim et al. 24 249 1994 .

 Complement dependent cytotoxicity or CDC refers to the ability of a molecule to lyse a target in the presence of complement. The complement activation pathway is initiated by the binding of the first component of the complement system C1q to a molecule e.g. an antibody complexed with a cognate antigen. To assess complement activation a CDC assay e.g. as described in Gazzano Santoro et al. 202 163 1996 may be performed.

 Native antibodies are usually heterotetrameric glycoproteins of about 150 000 daltons composed of two identical light L chains and two identical heavy H chains. Each light chain is linked to a heavy chain by one covalent disulfide bond while the number of disulfide linkages varies among the heavy chains of different immunoglobulin isotypes. Each heavy and light chain also has regularly spaced intrachain disulfide bridges. Each heavy chain has at one end a variable domain V followed by a number of constant domains. Each light chain has a variable domain at one end V and a constant domain at its other end. The constant domain of the light chain is aligned with the first constant domain of the heavy chain and the light chain variable domain is aligned with the variable domain of the heavy chain. Particular amino acid residues are believed to form an interface between the light chain and heavy chain variable domains.

The term variable refers to the fact that certain portions of the variable domains differ extensively in sequence among antibodies and are used in the binding and specificity of each particular antibody for its particular antigen. However the variability is not evenly distributed throughout the variable domains of antibodies. It is concentrated in three segments called hypervariable regions both in the light chain and the heavy chain variable domains. The more highly conserved portions of variable domains are called the framework regions FRs . The variable domains of native heavy and light chains each comprise four FRs largely adopting a sheet configuration connected by three hypervariable regions which form loops connecting and in some cases forming part of the sheet structure. The hypervariable regions in each chain are held together in close proximity by the FRs and with the hypervariable regions from the other chain contribute to the formation of the antigen binding site of antibodies see Kabat et al. 5th Ed. Public Health Service National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. 1991 . The constant domains are not involved directly in binding an antibody to an antigen but exhibit various effector functions such as participation of the antibody in antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ADCC .

The term hypervariable region when used herein refers to the amino acid residues of an antibody which are responsible for antigen binding. The hypervariable region generally comprises amino acid residues from a complementarity determining region or CDR e.g. residues 24 34 L1 50 56 L2 and 89 97 L3 in the light chain variable domain and 31 35 H1 50 65 H2 and 95 102 H3 in the heavy chain variable domain Kabat et al. 5th Ed. Public Health Service National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. 1991 and or those residues from a hypervariable loop e.g. residues 26 32 L1 50 52 L2 and 91 96 L3 in the light chain variable domain and 26 32 H1 53 55 H2 and 96 101 H3 in the heavy chain variable domain Chothia and Lesk 196 901 917 1987 . Framework Region or FR residues are those variable domain residues other than the hypervariable region residues as herein defined.

Papain digestion of antibodies produces two identical antigen binding fragments called Fab fragments each with a single antigen binding site and a residual Fc fragment whose name reflects its ability to crystallize readily. Pepsin treatment yields an F ab fragment that has two antigen binding sites and is still capable of cross linking antigen.

 Fv is the minimum antibody fragment which contains a complete antigen recognition and antigen binding site. This region consists of a dimer of one heavy chain and one light chain variable domain in tight non covalent association. It is in this configuration that the three hypervariable regions of each variable domain interact to define an antigen binding site on the surface of the V Vdimer. Collectively the six hypervariable regions confer antigen binding specificity to the antibody. However even a single variable domain or half of an Fv comprising only three hypervariable regions specific for an antigen has the ability to recognize and bind antigen although at a lower affinity than the entire binding site.

The Fab fragment also contains the constant domain of the light chain and the first constant domain CH1 of the heavy chain. Fab fragments differ from Fab fragments by the addition of a few residues at the carboxy terminus of the heavy chain CH1 domain including one or more cysteines from the antibody hinge region. Fab SH is the designation herein for Fab in which the cysteine residue s of the constant domains bear at least one free thiol group. F ab antibody fragments originally were produced as pairs of Fab fragments which have hinge cysteines between them. Other chemical couplings of antibody fragments are also known.

The light chains of antibodies from any vertebrate species can be assigned to one of two clearly distinct types called kappa and lambda based on the amino acid sequences of their constant domains.

 Single chain Fv or scFv antibody fragments comprise the Vand Vdomains of antibody wherein these domains are present in a single polypeptide chain. Preferably the Fv polypeptide further comprises a polypeptide linker between the Vand Vdomains which enables the scFv to form the desired structure for antigen binding. For a review of scFv see Pl ckthun in vol. 113 Rosenburg and Moore eds. Springer Verlag New York pp. 269 315 1994 . HER2 antibody scFv fragments are described in WO93 16185 U.S. Pat. No. 5 571 894 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 587 458.

The term diabodies refers to small antibody fragments with two antigen binding sites which fragments comprise a variable heavy domain V connected to a variable light domain V in the same polypeptide chain V V . By using a linker that is too short to allow pairing between the two domains on the same chain the domains are forced to pair with the complementary domains of another chain and create two antigen binding sites. Diabodies are described more fully in for example EP 404 097 WO 93 11161 and Hollinger et al. 90 6444 6448 1993 .

 Humanized forms of non human e.g. rodent antibodies are chimeric antibodies that contain minimal sequence derived from non human immunoglobulin. For the most part humanized antibodies are human immunoglobulins recipient antibody in which residues from a hypervariable region of the recipient are replaced by residues from a hypervariable region of a non human species donor antibody such as mouse rat rabbit or nonhuman primate having the desired specificity affinity and capacity. In some instances framework region FR residues of the human immunoglobulin are replaced by corresponding non human residues. Furthermore humanized antibodies may comprise residues that are not found in the recipient antibody or in the donor antibody. These modifications are made to further refine antibody performance. In general the humanized antibody will comprise substantially all of at least one and typically two variable domains in which all or substantially all of the hypervariable loops correspond to those of a non human immunoglobulin and all or substantially all of the FRs are those of a human immunoglobulin sequence. The humanized antibody optionally also will comprise at least a portion of an immunoglobulin constant region Fc typically that of a human immunoglobulin. For further details see Jones et al. 321 522 525 1986 Riechmann et al. 332 323 329 1988 and Presta 2 593 596 1992 .

Humanized HER2 antibodies include huMAb4D5 1 huMAb4D5 2 huMAb4D5 3 huMAb4D5 4 huMAb4D5 5 huMAb4D5 6 huMAb4D5 7 and huMAb4D5 8 or Trastuzumab HERCEPTIN as described in Table 3 of U.S. Pat. No. 5 821 337 expressly incorporated herein by reference humanized 520C9 WO93 21319 and humanized 2C4 antibodies as described herein.

For the purposes herein Trastuzumab HERCEPTIN and huMAb4D5 8 refer to an antibody comprising the light and heavy chain amino acid sequences in SEQ ID NOS. 13 and 14 respectively.

Herein Pertuzumab and rhuMAb 2C4 refer to an antibody comprising the variable light and variable heavy amino acid sequences in SEQ ID Nos. 3 and 4 respectfully. Where Pertuzumab is an intact antibody it preferably comprises the light chain and heavy chain amino acid sequences in SEQ ID Nos. 15 and 16 respectively.

A naked antibody is an antibody as herein defined that is not conjugated to a heterologous molecule such as a cytotoxic moiety or radiolabel.

An isolated antibody is one which has been identified and separated and or recovered from a component of its natural environment. Contaminant components of its natural environment are materials which would interfere with diagnostic or therapeutic uses for the antibody and may include enzymes hormones and other proteinaceous or nonproteinaceous solutes. In preferred embodiments the antibody will be purified 1 to greater than 95 by weight of antibody as determined by the Lowry method and most preferably more than 99 by weight 2 to a degree sufficient to obtain at least 15 residues of N terminal or internal amino acid sequence by use of a spinning cup sequenator or 3 to homogeneity by SDS PAGE under reducing or nonreducing conditions using Coomassie blue or preferably silver stain. Isolated antibody includes the antibody in situ within recombinant cells since at least one component of the antibody s natural environment will not be present. Ordinarily however isolated antibody will be prepared by at least one purification step.

A HER2 antibody which inhibits HER dimerization more effectively than Trastuzumab is one which reduces or eliminates HER dimers more effectively for example at least about 2 fold more effectively than Trastuzumab. Preferably such an antibody inhibits HER2 dimerization at least about as effectively as an antibody selected from the group consisting of intact murine monoclonal antibody 2C4 a Fab fragment of murine monoclonal antibody 2C4 intact Pertuzumab and a Fab fragment of Pertuzumab. One can evaluate HER dimerization inhibition by studying HER dimers directly or by evaluating HER activation or downstream signaling which results from HER dimerization and or by evaluating the antibody HER2 binding site etc. Assays for screening for antibodies with the ability to inhibit HER dimerization more effectively than Trastuzumab are described in Agus et al. 2 127 137 2002 and WO01 00245 Adams et al. . By way of example only one may assay for inhibition of HER dimerization by assessing for example inhibition of HER dimer formation see e.g. of Agus et al. 2 127 137 2002 and WO01 00245 reduction in HER ligand activation of cells which express HER dimers WO01 00245 and of Agus et al. 2 127 137 2002 for example blocking of HER ligand binding to cells which express HER dimers WO01 00245 and of Agus et al. 2 127 137 2002 for example cell growth inhibition of cancer cells e.g. MCF7 MDA MD 134 ZR 75 1 MD MB 175 T 47D cells which express HER dimers in the presence or absence of HER ligand WO01 00245 and of Agus et al. 2 127 137 2002 for instance inhibition of downstream signaling for instance inhibition of HRG dependent AKT phosphorylation or inhibition of HRG or TGF dependent MAPK phosphorylation see WO01 00245 and of Agus et al. 2 127 137 2002 for example . One may also assess whether the antibody inhibits HER dimerization by studying the antibody HER2 binding site for instance by evaluating a structure or model such as a crystal structure of the antibody bound to HER2 See for example Franklin et al. 5 317 328 2004 .

The HER2 antibody may inhibit HRG dependent AKT phosphorylation and or inhibit HRG or TGF dependent MAPK phosphorylation more effectively for instance at least 2 fold more effectively than Trastuzumab see Agus et al. 2 127 137 2002 and WO01 00245 by way of example .

The HER2 antibody may be one which does not inhibit HER2 ectodomain cleavage Molina et al. 61 4744 4749 2001 .

A HER2 antibody that binds to a heterodimeric binding site of HER2 binds to residues in domain II and optionally also binds to residues in other of the domains of the HER2 extracellular domain such as domains I and III and can sterically hinder at least to some extent formation of a HER2 EGFR HER2 HER3 or HER2 HER4 heterodimer. Franklin et al. 5 317 328 2004 characterize the HER2 Pertuzumab crystal structure deposited with the RCSB Protein Data Bank ID Code IS78 illustrating an exemplary antibody that binds to the heterodimeric binding site of HER2.

An antibody that binds to domain II of HER2 binds to residues in domain II and optionally residues in other domain s of HER2 such as domains I and III.

A growth inhibitory agent when used herein refers to a compound or composition which inhibits growth of a cell especially a HER expressing cancer cell either in vitro or in vivo. Thus the growth inhibitory agent may be one which significantly reduces the percentage of HER expressing cells in S phase. Examples of growth inhibitory agents include agents that block cell cycle progression at a place other than S phase such as agents that induce G1 arrest and M phase arrest. Classical M phase blockers include the vincas vincristine and vinblastine taxanes and topo II inhibitors such as doxorubicin epirubicin daunorubicin etoposide and bleomycin. Those agents that arrest G1 also spill over into S phase arrest for example DNA alkylating agents such as tamoxifen prednisone dacarbazine mechlorethamine cisplatin methotrexate 5 fluorouracil and ara C. Further information can be found in Mendelsohn and Israel eds. Chapter 1 entitled Cell cycle regulation oncogenes and antineoplastic drugs by Murakami et al. WB Saunders Philadelphia 1995 especially p. 13.

Examples of growth inhibitory antibodies are those which bind to HER2 and inhibit the growth of cancer cells overexpressing HER2. Preferred growth inhibitory HER2 antibodies inhibit growth of SK BR 3 breast tumor cells in cell culture by greater than 20 and preferably greater than 50 e.g. from about 50 to about 100 at an antibody concentration of about 0.5 to 30 g ml where the growth inhibition is determined six days after exposure of the SK BR 3 cells to the antibody see U.S. Pat. No. 5 677 171 issued Oct. 14 1997 . The SK BR 3 cell growth inhibition assay is described in more detail in that patent and hereinbelow. The preferred growth inhibitory antibody is a humanized variant of murine monoclonal antibody 4D5 e.g. Trastuzumab.

An antibody which induces apoptosis is one which induces programmed cell death as determined by binding of annexin V fragmentation of DNA cell shrinkage dilation of endoplasmic reticulum cell fragmentation and or formation of membrane vesicles called apoptotic bodies . The cell is usually one which overexpresses the HER2 receptor. Preferably the cell is a tumor cell e.g. a breast ovarian stomach endometrial salivary gland lung kidney colon thyroid pancreatic or bladder cell. In vitro the cell may be a SK BR 3 BT474 Calu 3 cell MDA MB 453 MDA MB 361 or SKOV3 cell. Various methods are available for evaluating the cellular events associated with apoptosis. For example phosphatidyl serine PS translocation can be measured by annexin binding DNA fragmentation can be evaluated through DNA laddering and nuclear chromatin condensation along with DNA fragmentation can be evaluated by any increase in hypodiploid cells. Preferably the antibody which induces apoptosis is one which results in about 2 to 50 fold preferably about 5 to 50 fold and most preferably about 10 to 50 fold induction of annexin binding relative to untreated cell in an annexin binding assay using BT474 cells see below . Examples of HER2 antibodies that induce apoptosis are 7C2 and 7F3.

The epitope 2C4 is the region in the extracellular domain of HER2 to which the antibody 2C4 binds. In order to screen for antibodies which bind to the 2C4 epitope a routine cross blocking assay such as that described in Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Ed Harlow and David Lane 1988 can be performed. Alternatively epitope mapping can be performed to assess whether the antibody binds to the 2C4 epitope of HER2 using methods known in the art and or one can study the antibody HER2 structure Franklin et al. 5 317 328 2004 to see what domain s of HER2 is are bound by the antibody. Epitope 2C4 comprises residues from domain II in the extracellular domain of HER2. 2C4 and Pertuzumab bind to the extracellular domain of HER2 at the junction of domains I II and III. Franklin et al. 5 317 328 2004 .

The epitope 4D5 is the region in the extracellular domain of HER2 to which the antibody 4D5 ATCC CRL 10463 and Trastuzumab bind. This epitope is close to the transmembrane domain of HER2 and within Domain IV of HER2. To screen for antibodies which bind to the 4D5 epitope a routine cross blocking assay such as that described in Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Ed Harlow and David Lane 1988 can be performed. Alternatively epitope mapping can be performed to assess whether the antibody binds to the 4D5 epitope of HER2 e.g. any one or more residues in the region from about residue 529 to about residue 625 inclusive in .

The epitope 7C2 7F3 is the region at the N terminus within Domain I of the extracellular domain of HER2 to which the 7C2 and or 7F3 antibodies each deposited with the ATCC see below bind. To screen for antibodies which bind to the 7C2 7F3 epitope a routine cross blocking assay such as that described in Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Ed Harlow and David Lane 1988 can be performed. Alternatively epitope mapping can be performed to establish whether the antibody binds to the 7C2 7F3 epitope on HER2 e.g. any one or more of residues in the region from about residue 22 to about residue 53 of HER2 in .

 Treatment refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures. Those in need of treatment include those already with the disease as well as those in which the disease is to be prevented. Hence the patient to be treated herein may have been diagnosed as having the disease or may be predisposed or susceptible to the disease.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma including medulloblastoma and retinoblastoma sarcoma including liposarcoma and synovial cell sarcoma neuroendocrine tumors including carcinoid tumors gastrinoma and islet cell cancer mesothelioma schwannoma including acoustic neuroma meningioma adenocarcinoma melanoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma testicular cancer esophagael cancer tumors of the biliary tract as well as head and neck cancer.

The term effective amount refers to an amount of a drug effective to treat disease in the patient. Where the disease is cancer the effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. The effective amount may extend progression free survival result in an objective response including a partial response PR or complete respose CR increase overall survival time and or improve one or more symptoms of cancer.

A HER2 positive cancer is one comprising cells which have HER2 protein present at their cell surface.

A cancer which overexpresses a HER receptor is one which has significantly higher levels of a HER receptor such as HER2 at the cell surface thereof compared to a noncancerous cell of the same tissue type. Such overexpression may be caused by gene amplification or by increased transcription or translation. HER receptor overexpression may be determined in a diagnostic or prognostic assay by evaluating increased levels of the HER protein present on the surface of a cell e.g. via an immunohistochemistry assay IHC . Alternatively or additionally one may measure levels of HER encoding nucleic acid in the cell e.g. via fluorescent in situ hybridization FISH see WO98 45479 published October 1998 southern blotting or polymerase chain reaction PCR techniques such as real time quantitative PCR RT PCR . One may also study HER receptor overexpression by measuring shed antigen e.g. HER extracellular domain in a biological fluid such as serum see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 933 294 issued Jun. 12 1990 WO91 05264 published Apr. 18 1991 U.S. Pat. No. 5 401 638 issued Mar. 28 1995 and Sias et al. 132 73 80 1990 . Aside from the above assays various in vivo assays are available to the skilled practitioner. For example one may expose cells within the body of the patient to an antibody which is optionally labeled with a detectable label e.g. a radioactive isotope and binding of the antibody to cells in the patient can be evaluated e.g. by external scanning for radioactivity or by analyzing a biopsy taken from a patient previously exposed to the antibody.

Conversely a cancer which does not overexpress HER2 receptor is one which does not express higher than normal levels of HER2 receptor compared to a noncancerous cell of the same tissue type.

A cancer which overexpresses a HER ligand is one which produces significantly higher levels of that ligand compared to a noncancerous cell of the same tissue type. Such overexpression may be caused by gene amplification or by increased transcription or translation. Overexpression of the HER ligand may be determined diagnostically by evaluating levels of the ligand or nucleic acid encoding it in the patient e.g. in a tumor biopsy or by various diagnostic assays such as the IHC FISH southern blotting PCR or in vivo assays described above.

The term cytotoxic agent as used herein refers to a substance that inhibits or prevents the function of cells and or causes destruction of cells. The term is intended to include radioactive isotopes e.g. At I I Y Re Re Sm Bi Pand radioactive isotopes of Lu chemotherapeutic agents and toxins such as small molecule toxins or enzymatically active toxins of bacterial fungal plant or animal origin including fragments and or variants thereof.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include alkylating agents such as thiotepa and cyclosphosphamide CYTOXAN alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine trietylenephosphoramide triethiylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylolomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone delta 9 tetrahydrocannabinol dronabinol MARINOL beta lapachone lapachol colchicines betulinic acid a camptothecin including the synthetic analogue topotecan HYCAMTIN CPT 11 irinotecan CAMPTOSAR acetylcamptothecin scopolectin and 9 aminocamptothecin bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogues podophyllotoxin podophyllinic acid teniposide cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogues KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine cholophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gammaII and calicheamicin omegaIl see e.g. Agnew 33 183 186 1994 dynemicin including dynemicin A an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antiobiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine doxorubicin including ADRIAMYCIN morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin doxorubicin HCl liposome injection DOXIL liposomal doxorubicin TLC D 99 MYOCET peglylated liposomal doxorubicin CAELYX and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin potfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate gemcitabine GEMZAR tegafur UFTORAL capecitabine XELODA an epothilone and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogues such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elfornithine elliptinium acetate etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C thiotepa taxoid e.g. paclitaxel TAXOL albumin engineered nanoparticle formulation of paclitaxel ABRAXANE and docetaxel TAXOTERE chloranbucil 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum agents such as cisplatin oxaliplatin and carboplatin vincas which prevent tubulin polymerization from forming microtubules including vinblastine VELBAN vincristine ONCOVIN vindesine ELDISINE FILDESIN and vinorelbine NAVELBINE etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone leucovovin novantrone edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin ibandronate topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid including bexarotene TARGRETIN bisphosphonates such as clodronate for example BONEFOS or OSTAC etidronate DIDROCAL NE 58095 zoledronic acid zoledronate ZOMETA alendronate FOSAMAX pamidronate AREDIA tiludronate SKELID or risedronate ACTONEL troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog antisense oligonucleotides particularly those that inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Raf H Ras and epidermal growth factor receptor EGF R vaccines such as THERATOPE vaccine and gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN vaccine LEUVECTIN vaccine and VAXID vaccine topoisomerase 1 inhibitor e.g. LURTOTECAN rmRH e.g. ABARELIX BAY439006 sorafenib Bayer SU 11248 Pfizer perifosine COX 2 inhibitor e.g. celecoxib or etoricoxib proteosome inhibitor e.g. PS341 bortezomib VELCADE CCI 779 tipifarnib R11577 orafenib ABT510 Bc1 2 inhibitor such as oblimersen sodium GENASENSE pixantrone EGFR inhibitors see definition below tyrosine kinase inhibitors see definition below and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above as well as combinations of two or more of the above such as CHOP an abbreviation for a combined therapy of cyclophosphamide doxorubicin vincristine and prednisolone and FOLFOX an abbreviation for a treatment regimen with oxaliplatin ELOXATIN combined with 5 FU and leucovovin.

Also included in this definition are anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens with mixed agonist antagonist profile including tamoxifen NOLVADEX 4 hydroxytamoxifen toremifene FARESTON idoxifene droloxifene raloxifene EVISTA trioxifene keoxifene and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs such as SERM3 pure anti estrogens without agonist properties such as fulvestrant FASLODEX and EM800 such agents may block estrogen receptor ER dimerization inhibit DNA binding increase ER turnover and or suppress ER levels aromatase inhibitors including steroidal aromatase inhibitors such as formestane and exemestane AROMASIN and nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitors such as anastrazole ARIMIDEX letrozole FEMARA and aminoglutethimide and other aromatase inhibitors including vorozole RIVISOR megestrol acetate MEGASE fadrozole imidazole lutenizing hormone releasing hormone agonists including leuprolide LUPRON and ELIGARD goserelin buserelin and tripterelin sex steroids including progestines such as megestrol acetate and medroxyprogesterone acetate estrogens such as diethylstilbestrol and premarin and androgens retinoids such as fluoxymesterone all transretionic acid and fenretinide onapristone anti progesterones estrogen receptor down regulators ERDs anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide and bicalutamide testolactone and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above as well as combinations of two or more of the above.

As used herein the term EGFR targeted drug refers to a therapeutic agent that binds to EGFR and optionally inhibits EGFR activation. Examples of such agents include antibodies and small molecules that bind to EGFR. Examples of antibodies which bind to EGFR include MAb 579 ATCC CRL HB 8506 MAb 455 ATCC CRL HB8507 MAb 225 ATCC CRL 8508 MAb 528 ATCC CRL 8509 see U.S. Pat. No. 4 943 533 Mendelsohn et al. and variants thereof such as chimerized 225 C225 or Cetuximab ERBUTIX and reshaped human 225 H225 see WO 96 40210 Imclone Systems Inc. IMC 11F8 a fully human EGFR targeted antibody Imclone antibodies that bind type II mutant EGFR U.S. Pat. No. 5 212 290 humanized and chimeric antibodies that bind EGFR as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 891 996 and human antibodies that bind EGFR such as ABX EGF or Panitumumab see WO98 50433 Abgenix Amgen EMD 55900 Stragliotto et al. 32A 636 640 1996 EMD7200 matuzumab a humanized EGFR antibody directed against EGFR that competes with both EGF and TGF alpha for EGFR binding EMD Merck human EGFR antibody HuMax EGFR GenMab fully human antibodies known as E1.1 E2.4 E2.5 E6.2 E6.4 E2.11 E6. 3 and E7.6. 3 and described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 235 883 MDX 447 Medarex Inc and mAb 806 or humanized mAb 806 Johns et al. 279 29 30375 30384 2004 . The anti EGFR antibody may be conjugated with a cytotoxic agent thus generating an immunoconjugate see e.g. EP659 439A2 Merck Patent GmbH . EGFR antagonists include small molecules such as compounds described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 616 582 5 457 105 5 475 001 5 654 307 5 679 683 6 084 095 6 265 410 6 455 534 6 521 620 6 596 726 6 713 484 5 770 599 6 140 332 5 866 572 6 399 602 6 344 459 6 602 863 6 391 874 6 344 455 5 760 041 6 002 008 and 5 747 498 as well as the following PCT publications WO98 14451 WO98 50038 WO99 09016 and WO99 24037. Particular small molecule EGFR antagonists include OSI 774 CP 358774 erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharmaceuticals PD 183805 CI 1033 2 propenamide N 4 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl amino 7 3 4 morpholinyl propoxy 6 quinazolinyl dihydrochloride Pfizer Inc. ZD1839 gefitinib IRESSA 4 3 Chloro 4 fluoroanilino 7 methoxy 6 3 morpholinopropoxy quinazoline AstraZeneca ZM 105180 6 amino 4 3 methylphenyl amino quinazoline Zeneca BIBX 1382 N 8 3 chloro 4 fluoro phenyl N2 1 methyl piperidin 4 yl pyrimido 5 4 d pyrimidine 2 8 diamine Boehringer Ingelheim PKI 166 R 4 4 1 phenylethyl amino 1H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidin 6 yl phenol R 6 4 hydroxyphenyl 4 1 phenylethyl amino 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidine CL 387785 N 4 3 bromophenyl amino 6 quinazolinyl 2 butynamide EKB 569 N 4 3 chloro 4 fluorophenyl amino 3 cyano 7 ethoxy 6 quinolinyl 4 dimethylamino 2 butenamide Wyeth AG1478 Sugen AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen dual EGFR HER2 tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as lapatinib GW 572016 or N 3 chloro 4 3 fluorophenyl methoxy phenyl 6 5 2 methylsulfonyl ethyl amino methyl 2 furanyl 4 quinazolinamine Glaxo SmithKline or cyanoguanidine quinazoline and cyanoamidine quinazolamine derivatives.

A tyrosine kinase inhibitor is a molecule which inhibits tyrosine kinase activity of a tyrosine kinase such as a HER receptor. Examples of such inhibitors include the EGFR targeted drugs noted in the preceding paragraph small molecule HER2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor such as TAK165 available from Takeda CP 724 714 an oral selective inhibitor of the ErbB2 receptor tyrosine kinase Pfizer and OSI dual HER inhibitors such as EKB 569 available from Wyeth which preferentially binds EGFR but inhibits both HER2 and EGFR overexpressing cells lapatinib GW572016 available from Glaxo SmithKline an oral HER2 and EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor PKI 166 available from Novartis pan HER inhibitors such as canertinib CI 1033 Pharmacia Raf 1 inhibitors such as antisense agent ISIS 5132 available from ISIS Pharmaceuticals which inhibits Raf 1 signaling non HER targeted TK inhibitors such as Imatinib mesylate GLEEVAC available from Glaxo MAPK extracellular regulated kinase I inhibitor CI 1040 available from Pharmacia quinazolines such as PD 153035 4 3 chloroanilino quinazoline pyridopyrimidines pyrimidopyrimidines pyrrolopyrimidines such as CGP 59326 CGP 60261 and CGP 62706 pyrazolopyrimidines 4 phenylamino 7H pyrrolo 2 3 d pyrimidines curcumin diferuloyl methane 4 5 bis 4 fluoroanilino phthalimide tyrphostines containing nitrothiophene moieties PD 0183805 Warner Lamber antisense molecules e.g. those that bind to HER encoding nucleic acid quinoxalines U.S. Pat. No. 5 804 396 tryphostins U.S. Pat. No. 5 804 396 ZD6474 Astra Zeneca PTK 787 Novartis Schering AG pan HER inhibitors such as CI 1033 Pfizer Affinitac ISIS 3521 Isis Lilly Imatinib mesylate Gleevac Novartis PKI 166 Novartis GW2016 Glaxo SmithKline CI 1033 Pfizer EKB 569 Wyeth Semaxinib Sugen ZD6474 AstraZeneca PTK 787 Novartis Schering AG INC 1C11 Imclone cyanoguanidine quinazoline and cyanoamidine quinazolamine derivatives or as described in any of the following patent publications U.S. Pat. No. 5 804 396 WO99 09016 American Cyanamid WO98 43960 American Cyanamid WO97 38983 Warner Lambert WO99 06378 Warner Lambert WO99 06396 Warner Lambert WO96 30347 Pfizer Inc WO96 33978 Zeneca WO96 3397 Zeneca WO96 33980 Zeneca and US2005 0101617.

An anti angiogenic agent refers to a compound which blocks or interferes with to some degree the development of blood vessels. The anti angiogenic factor may for instance be a small molecule or antibody that binds to a growth factor or growth factor receptor involved in promoting angiogenesis. The preferred anti angiogenic factor herein is an antibody that binds to Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor VEGF such as Bevacizumab AVASTIN .

The term cytokine is a generic term for proteins released by one cell population which act on another cell as intercellular mediators. Examples of such cytokines are lymphokines monokines and traditional polypeptide hormones. Included among the cytokines are growth hormone such as human growth hormone N methionyl human growth hormone and bovine growth hormone parathyroid hormone thyroxine insulin proinsulin relaxin prorelaxin glycoprotein hormones such as follicle stimulating hormone FSH thyroid stimulating hormone TSH and luteinizing hormone LH hepatic growth factor fibroblast growth factor prolactin placental lactogen tumor necrosis factor and mullerian inhibiting substance mouse gonadotropin associated peptide inhibin activin vascular endothelial growth factor integrin thrombopoietin TPO nerve growth factors such as NGF platelet growth factor transforming growth factors TGFs such as TGF and TGF insulin like growth factor I and II erythropoietin EPO osteoinductive factors interferons such as interferon and colony stimulating factors CSFs such as macrophage CSF M CSF granulocyte macrophage CSF GM CSF and granulocyte CSF G CSF interleukins ILs such as IL 1 IL 1 IL 2 IL 3 IL 4 IL 5 IL 6 IL 7 IL 8 IL 9 IL 10 IL 11 IL 12 a tumor necrosis factor such as TNF or TNF and other polypeptide factors including LIF and kit ligand KL . As used herein the term cytokine includes proteins from natural sources or from recombinant cell culture and biologically active equivalents of the native sequence cytokines

The present invention concerns at least in part certain HER2 antibody compositions. Preferably the HER2 antibody either or both of the main species HER2 antibody and antibody variant thereof is one which binds to Domain II of HER2 inhibits HER dimerization more effectively than Trastuzumab and or binds to a heterodimeric binding site of HER2. The preferred embodiment herein of the main species antibody is one comprising the variable light and variable heavy amino acid sequences in SEQ ID Nos. 3 and 4 and most preferably comprising the light chain and heavy chain amino acid sequences in SEQ ID Nos. 15 and 16 Pertuzumab .

The composition herein comprises a main species HER2 antibody that binds to domain II of HER2 and acidic variants thereof wherein the acidic variants include one two or three of glycated variant disulfide reduced variant and non reducible variant. The acidic variants in the composition may include one two three four or five of glycated variant deamidated variant disulfide reduced variant sialylated variant and non reducible variant. Preferably the total amount of all acidic variants in the composition is less than about 25 . In one embodiment the glycated variant deamidated variant disulfide reduced variant sialylated variant and non reducible variant constitute at least about 75 80 of the acidic variants in the composition.

The invention additionally concerns a composition comprising a main species HER2 antibody comprising variable light and variable heavy sequences in SEQ ID Nos. 3 and 4 respectively and acidic variants of the main species antibody wherein the acidic variants include one two three four or five of glycated variant deamidated variant disulfide reduced variant sialylated variant and non reducible variant.

The invention provides a method of making a pharmaceutical composition comprising 1 preparing a composition comprising a main species HER2 antibody that binds to domain II of HER2 and acidic variants thereof including glycated variant disulfide reduced variant or non reducible variant and 2 evaluating the acidic variants in the composition and confirming that the amount thereof is less than about 25 . The method contemplates combining the composition before during or after step 2 with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In one embodiment the composition evaluated in step 2 is in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In one embodiment at least about 75 80 of the acidic variants constituting the less than about 25 of the composition are selected from glycated variant deamidated variant disulfide reduced variant sialylated variant and non reducible variant.

The acidic variants may be evaluated by a variety of methods but preferably such methods include one two three four or five of ion exchange chromatography IEC wherein the composition is treated with sialidase before after and or during the IEC e.g. to evaluate sialylated variant reduced CE SDS e.g. to evaluate disulfide reduced variant non reduced CE SDS e.g to evaluate non reducible variant boronate chromatography e.g. to evaluate glycated variant and peptide mapping e.g. to evaluate deamidated variant .

In one embodiment the overall acidic variants are evaluated by ion exchange chromatography for example using a weak cation exchanger and or cation exchanger with carboxylate functional group for example using a DIONEX PROPAC WCX 10 chromatography column . In one embodiment of such chromatography the conditions for the chromatography involve Buffer A of 20 mM BisTris pH 6.0 Buffer B of 20 mM BisTris 200 mM NaCl pH 6.0 and a gradient of 0.5 Buffer B at 1.0 mL min.

The composition optionally includes an amino terminal leader extension variant. Preferably the amino terminal leader extension is on a light chain of the antibody variant e.g. on one or two light chains of the antibody variant . The main species HER2 antibody or the antibody variant may be an intact antibody or antibody fragment e.g. Fab of F ab fragments but preferably both are intact antibodies. The antibody variant herein may comprise an amino terminal leader extension on any one or more of the heavy or light chains thereof. Preferably the amino terminal leader extension is on one or two light chains of the antibody. The amino terminal leader extension preferably comprises or consists of VHS . Presence of the amino terminal leader extension in the composition can be detected by various analytical techniques including but not limited to N terminal sequence analysis assay for charge heterogeneity for instance cation exchange chromatography or capillary zone electrophoresis mass spectrometry etc. The amount of the antibody variant in the composition generally ranges from an amount that constitutes the lower detection limit of any assay preferably cation exchange analysis used to detect the variant to an amount less than the amount of the main species antibody. Generally about 20 or less e.g. from about 1 to about 15 for instance from 5 to about 15 and preferably from about 8 to about 12 of the antibody molecules in the composition comprise an amino terminal leader extension. Such percentage amounts are preferably determined using cation exchange analysis.

Further amino acid sequence alterations of the main species antibody and or variant are contemplated including but not limited to an antibody comprising a C terminal lysine residue on one or both heavy chains thereof such an antibody variant may be present in an amount from about 1 to about 20 antibody with one or more oxidized methionine residues for example Pertuzumab comprising oxidized met 254 etc.

Moreover aside from the sialylated variant discussed above the main species antibody or variant may comprise additional glycosylation variations non limiting examples of which include antibody comprising a G1 or G2 oligosaccharide structure attached to the Fc region thereof antibody comprising a carbohydrate moiety attached to a light chain thereof e.g. one or two carbohydrate moieties such as glucose or galactose attached to one or two light chains of the antibody for instance attached to one or more lysine residues antibody comprising one or two non glycosylated heavy chains etc.

Optionally the antibody comprising one or two light chains wherein either or both of the light chains comprise the amino acid sequence in SEQ ID No. 23 including variants thereof such as those disclosed herein . The antibody further comprises one or two heavy chains wherein either or both of the heavy chains comprise the amino acid sequence in SEQ ID NO. 16 or SEQ ID NO. 24 including variants thereof such as those disclosed herein .

The composition may be recovered from a genetically engineered cell line e.g. a Chinese Hamster Ovary CHO cell line expressing the HER2 antibody or may be prepared by peptide synthesis.

A description follows as to exemplary techniques for the production of the antibodies used in accordance with the present invention. The HER2 antigen to be used for production of antibodies may be e.g. a soluble form of the extracellular domain of HER2 or a portion thereof containing the desired epitope. Alternatively cells expressing HER2 at their cell surface e.g. NIH 3T3 cells transformed to overexpress HER2 or a carcinoma cell line such as SK BR 3 cells see Stancovski et al. 88 8691 8695 1991 can be used to generate antibodies. Other forms of HER2 useful for generating antibodies will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

Monoclonal antibodies are obtained from a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies i.e. the individual antibodies comprising the population are identical and or bind the same epitope except for possible variants that may arise during production of the monoclonal antibody such as those variants described herein. Thus the modifier monoclonal indicates the character of the antibody as not being a mixture of discrete antibodies.

For example the monoclonal antibodies may be made using the hybridoma method first described by Kohler et al. 256 495 1975 or may be made by recombinant DNA methods U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 .

In the hybridoma method a mouse or other appropriate host animal such as a hamster is immunized as hereinabove described to elicit lymphocytes that produce or are capable of producing antibodies that will specifically bind to the protein used for immunization. Alternatively lymphocytes may be immunized in vitro. Lymphocytes then are fused with myeloma cells using a suitable fusing agent such as polyethylene glycol to form a hybridoma cell Goding pp. 59 103 Academic Press 1986 .

The hybridoma cells thus prepared are seeded and grown in a suitable culture medium that preferably contains one or more substances that inhibit the growth or survival of the unfused parental myeloma cells. For example if the parental myeloma cells lack the enzyme hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase HGPRT or HPRT the culture medium for the hybridomas typically will include hypoxanthine aminopterin and thymidine HAT medium which substances prevent the growth of HGPRT deficient cells.

Preferred myeloma cells are those that fuse efficiently support stable high level production of antibody by the selected antibody producing cells and are sensitive to a medium such as HAT medium. Among these preferred myeloma cell lines are murine myeloma lines such as those derived from MOPC 21 and MPC 11 mouse tumors available from the Salk Institute Cell Distribution Center San Diego Calif. USA and SP 2 or X63 Ag8 653 cells available from the American Type Culture Collection Rockville Md. USA. Human myeloma and mouse human heteromyeloma cell lines also have been described for the production of human monoclonal antibodies Kozbor 133 3001 1984 and Brodeur et al. pp. 51 63 Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1987 .

Culture medium in which hybridoma cells are growing is assayed for production of monoclonal antibodies directed against the antigen. Preferably the binding specificity of monoclonal antibodies produced by hybridoma cells is determined by immunoprecipitation or by an in vitro binding assay such as radioimmunoassay RIA or enzyme linked immunoabsorbent assay ELISA .

The binding affinity of the monoclonal antibody can for example be determined by the Scatchard analysis of Munson et al. 107 220 1980 .

After hybridoma cells are identified that produce antibodies of the desired specificity affinity and or activity the clones may be subcloned by limiting dilution procedures and grown by standard methods Goding pp. 59 103 Academic Press 1986 . Suitable culture media for this purpose include for example D MEM or RPMI 1640 medium. In addition the hybridoma cells may be grown in vivo as ascites tumors in an animal.

The monoclonal antibodies secreted by the subclones are suitably separated from the culture medium ascites fluid or serum by conventional antibody purification procedures such as for example protein A Sepharose hydroxylapatite chromatography gel electrophoresis dialysis or affinity chromatography.

DNA encoding the monoclonal antibodies is readily isolated and sequenced using conventional procedures e.g. by using oligonucleotide probes that are capable of binding specifically to genes encoding the heavy and light chains of murine antibodies . The hybridoma cells serve as a preferred source of such DNA. Once isolated the DNA may be placed into expression vectors which are then transfected into host cells such as cells simian COS cells Chinese Hamster Ovary CHO cells or myeloma cells that do not otherwise produce antibody protein to obtain the synthesis of monoclonal antibodies in the recombinant host cells. Review articles on recombinant expression in bacteria of DNA encoding the antibody include Skerra et al. 5 256 262 1993 and Pl ckthun 130 151 188 1992 .

In a further embodiment monoclonal antibodies or antibody fragments can be isolated from antibody phage libraries generated using the techniques described in McCafferty et al. 348 552 554 1990 . Clackson et al. 352 624 628 1991 and Marks et al. 222 581 597 1991 describe the isolation of murine and human antibodies respectively using phage libraries. Subsequent publications describe the production of high affinity nM range human antibodies by chain shuffling Marks et al. 10 779 783 1992 as well as combinatorial infection and in vivo recombination as a strategy for constructing very large phage libraries Waterhouse et al. 21 2265 2266 1993 . Thus these techniques are viable alternatives to traditional monoclonal antibody hybridoma techniques for isolation of monoclonal antibodies.

The DNA also may be modified for example by substituting the coding sequence for human heavy chain and light chain constant domains in place of the homologous murine sequences U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 and Morrison et al. 81 6851 1984 or by covalently joining to the immunoglobulin coding sequence all or part of the coding sequence for a non immunoglobulin polypeptide.

Typically such non immunoglobulin polypeptides are substituted for the constant domains of an antibody or they are substituted for the variable domains of one antigen combining site of an antibody to create a chimeric bivalent antibody comprising one antigen combining site having specificity for an antigen and another antigen combining site having specificity for a different antigen.

Methods for humanizing non human antibodies have been described in the art. Preferably a humanized antibody has one or more amino acid residues introduced into it from a source which is non human. These non human amino acid residues are often referred to as import residues which are typically taken from an import variable domain. Humanization can be essentially performed following the method of Winter and co workers Jones et al. 321 522 525 1986 Riechmann et al. 332 323 327 1988 Verhoeyen et al. 239 1534 1536 1988 by substituting hypervariable region sequences for the corresponding sequences of a human antibody. Accordingly such humanized antibodies are chimeric antibodies U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 wherein substantially less than an intact human variable domain has been substituted by the corresponding sequence from a non human species. In practice humanized antibodies are typically human antibodies in which some hypervariable region residues and possibly some FR residues are substituted by residues from analogous sites in rodent antibodies.

The choice of human variable domains both light and heavy to be used in making the humanized antibodies is very important to reduce antigenicity. According to the so called best fit method the sequence of the variable domain of a rodent antibody is screened against the entire library of known human variable domain sequences. The human sequence which is closest to that of the rodent is then accepted as the human framework region FR for the humanized antibody Sims et al. 151 2296 1993 Chothia et al. 196 901 1987 . Another method uses a particular framework region derived from the consensus sequence of all human antibodies of a particular subgroup of light or heavy chains. The same framework may be used for several different humanized antibodies Carter et al. 89 4285 1992 Presta et al. 151 2623 1993 .

It is further important that antibodies be humanized with retention of high affinity for the antigen and other favorable biological properties. To achieve this goal according to a preferred method humanized antibodies are prepared by a process of analysis of the parental sequences and various conceptual humanized products using three dimensional models of the parental and humanized sequences. Three dimensional immunoglobulin models are commonly available and are familiar to those skilled in the art. Computer programs are available which illustrate and display probable three dimensional conformational structures of selected candidate immunoglobulin sequences. Inspection of these displays permits analysis of the likely role of the residues in the functioning of the candidate immunoglobulin sequence i.e. the analysis of residues that influence the ability of the candidate immunoglobulin to bind its antigen. In this way FR residues can be selected and combined from the recipient and import sequences so that the desired antibody characteristic such as increased affinity for the target antigen s is achieved. In general the hypervariable region residues are directly and most substantially involved in influencing antigen binding.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 949 245 describes production of exemplary humanized HER2 antibodies which bind HER2 and block ligand activation of a HER receptor. The humanized antibody of particular interest herein blocks EGF TGF and or HRG mediated activation of MAPK essentially as effectively as intact murine monoclonal antibody 2C4 or a Fab fragment thereof and or binds HER2 essentially as effectively as intact murine monoclonal antibody 2C4 or a Fab fragment thereof . The humanized antibody herein may for example comprise nonhuman hypervariable region residues incorporated into a human variable heavy domain and may further comprise a framework region FR substitution at a position selected from the group consisting of 69H 71H and 73H utilizing the variable domain numbering system set forth in Kabat et al. 5th Ed. Public Health Service National Institutes of Health Bethesda Md. 1991 . In one embodiment the humanized antibody comprises FR substitutions at two or all of positions 69H 71H and 73H.

An exemplary humanized antibody of interest herein comprises variable heavy complementarity determining residues GFTFTDYTMX where X is preferrably D or S SEQ ID NO 7 DVNPNSGGSIYNQRFKG SEQ ID NO 8 and or NLGPSFYFDY SEQ ID NO 9 optionally comprising amino acid modifications of those CDR residues e.g. where the modifications essentially maintain or improve affinity of the antibody. For example the antibody variant of interest may have from about one to about seven or about five amino acid substitutions in the above variable heavy CDR sequences. Such antibody variants may be prepared by affinity maturation e.g. as described below. The most preferred humanized antibody comprises the variable heavy amino acid sequence in SEQ ID NO 4.

The humanized antibody may comprise variable light complementarity determining residues KASQDVSIGVA SEQ ID NO 10 SASYXXX where Xis preferably R or L Xis preferably Y or E and Xis preferably T or S SEQ ID NO 11 and or QQYYIYPYT SEQ ID NO 12 e.g. in addition to those variable heavy domain CDR residues in the preceding paragraph. Such humanized antibodies optionally comprise amino acid modifications of the above CDR residues e.g. where the modifications essentially maintain or improve affinity of the antibody. For example the antibody variant of interest may have from about one to about seven or about five amino acid substitutions in the above variable light CDR sequences. Such antibody variants may be prepared by affinity maturation e.g. as described below. The most preferred humanized antibody comprises the variable light amino acid sequence in SEQ ID NO 3.

The present application also contemplates affinity matured antibodies which bind HER2 and block ligand activation of a HER receptor. The parent antibody may be a human antibody or a humanized antibody e.g. one comprising the variable light and or variable heavy sequences of SEQ ID Nos. 3 and 4 respectively i.e. variant 574 . The affinity matured antibody preferably binds to HER2 receptor with an affinity superior to that of intact murine 2C4 or intact variant 574 e.g. from about two or about four fold to about 100 fold or about 1000 fold improved affinity e.g. as assessed using a HER2 extracellular domain ECD ELISA . Exemplary variable heavy CDR residues for substitution include H28 H30 H34 H35 H64 H96 H99 or combinations of two or more e.g. two three four five six or seven of these residues . Examples of variable light CDR residues for alteration include L28 L50 L53 L56 L91 L92 L93 L94 L96 L97 or combinations of two or more e.g. two to three four five or up to about ten of these residues .

Various forms of the humanized antibody or affinity matured antibody are contemplated. For example the humanized antibody or affinity matured antibody may be an antibody fragment such as a Fab which is optionally conjugated with one or more cytotoxic agent s in order to generate an immunoconjugate. Alternatively the humanized antibody or affinity matured antibody may be an intact antibody such as an intact IgG1 antibody.

As an alternative to humanization human antibodies can be generated. For example it is now possible to produce transgenic animals e.g. mice that are capable upon immunization of producing a full repertoire of human antibodies in the absence of endogenous immunoglobulin production. For example it has been described that the homozygous deletion of the antibody heavy chain joining region J gene in chimeric and germ line mutant mice results in complete inhibition of endogenous antibody production. Transfer of the human germ line immunoglobulin gene array in such germ line mutant mice will result in the production of human antibodies upon antigen challenge. See e.g. Jakobovits et al. 90 2551 1993 Jakobovits et al. 362 255 258 1993 Bruggermann et al. 7 33 1993 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 591 669 5 589 369 and 5 545 807.

Alternatively phage display technology McCafferty et al. 348 552 553 1990 can be used to produce human antibodies and antibody fragments in vitro from immunoglobulin variable V domain gene repertoires from unimmunized donors. According to this technique antibody V domain genes are cloned in frame into either a major or minor coat protein gene of a filamentous bacteriophage such as M13 or fd and displayed as functional antibody fragments on the surface of the phage particle. Because the filamentous particle contains a single stranded DNA copy of the phage genome selections based on the functional properties of the antibody also result in selection of the gene encoding the antibody exhibiting those properties. Thus the phage mimics some of the properties of the B cell. Phage display can be performed in a variety of formats for their review see e.g. Johnson Kevin S and Chiswell David J. 3 564 571 1993 . Several sources of V gene segments can be used for phage display. Clackson et al. 352 624 628 1991 isolated a diverse array of anti oxazolone antibodies from a small random combinatorial library of V genes derived from the spleens of immunized mice. A repertoire of V genes from unimmunized human donors can be constructed and antibodies to a diverse array of antigens including self antigens can be isolated essentially following the techniques described by Marks et al. 222 581 597 1991 or Griffith et al. 12 725 734 1993 . See also U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 565 332 and 5 573 905.

Human antibodies may also be generated by in vitro activated B cells see U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 567 610 and 5 229 275 .

Human HER2 antibodies are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 772 997 issued Jun. 30 1998 and WO 97 00271 published Jan. 3 1997.

Various techniques have been developed for the production of antibody fragments. Traditionally these fragments were derived via proteolytic digestion of intact antibodies see e.g. Morimoto et al. 24 107 117 1992 and Brennan et al. 229 81 1985 . However these fragments can now be produced directly by recombinant host cells. For example the antibody fragments can be isolated from the antibody phage libraries discussed above. Alternatively Fab SH fragments can be directly recovered from and chemically coupled to form F ab fragments Carter et al. Bio Technology 10 163 167 1992 . According to another approach F ab fragments can be isolated directly from recombinant host cell culture. Other techniques for the production of antibody fragments will be apparent to the skilled practitioner. In other embodiments the antibody of choice is a single chain Fv fragment scFv . See WO 93 16185 U.S. Pat. No. 5 571 894 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 587 458. The antibody fragment may also be a linear antibody e.g. as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 641 870 for example. Such linear antibody fragments may be monospecific or bispecific.

Bispecific antibodies are antibodies that have binding specificities for at least two different epitopes. Exemplary bispecific antibodies may bind to two different epitopes of the HER2 protein. Other such antibodies may combine a HER2 binding site with binding site s for EGFR HER3 and or HER4. Alternatively a HER2 arm may be combined with an arm which binds to a triggering molecule on a leukocyte such as a T cell receptor molecule e.g. CD2 or CD3 or Fc receptors for IgG Fc R such as Fc RI CD64 Fc RII CD32 and Fc R1II CD16 so as to focus cellular defense mechanisms to the HER2 expressing cell. Bispecific antibodies may also be used to localize cytotoxic agents to cells which express HER2. These antibodies possess a HER2 binding arm and an arm which binds the cytotoxic agent e.g. saporin anti interferon vinca alkaloid ricin A chain methotrexate or radioactive isotope hapten . Bispecific antibodies can be prepared as full length antibodies or antibody fragments e.g. F ab bispecific antibodies .

WO 96 16673 describes a bispecific HER2 Fc RIII antibody and U.S. Pat. No. 5 837 234 discloses a bispecific HER2 Fc RI antibody IDM1 Osidem . A bispecific HER2 Fc antibody is shown in WO98 02463. U.S. Pat. No. 5 821 337 teaches a bispecific HER2 CD3 antibody. MDX 210 is a bispecific HER2 Fc RIII Ab.

Methods for making bispecific antibodies are known in the art. Traditional production of full length bispecific antibodies is based on the coexpression of two immunoglobulin heavy chain light chain pairs where the two chains have different specificities Millstein et al. 305 537 539 1983 . Because of the random assortment of immunoglobulin heavy and light chains these hybridomas quadromas produce a potential mixture of 10 different antibody molecules of which only one has the correct bispecific structure. Purification of the correct molecule which is usually done by affinity chromatography steps is rather cumbersome and the product yields are low. Similar procedures are disclosed in WO 93 08829 and in Traunecker et al. 10 3655 3659 1991 .

According to a different approach antibody variable domains with the desired binding specificities antibody antigen combining sites are fused to immunoglobulin constant domain sequences. The fusion preferably is with an immunoglobulin heavy chain constant domain comprising at least part of the hinge CH2 and CH3 regions. It is preferred to have the first heavy chain constant region CH1 containing the site necessary for light chain binding present in at least one of the fusions. DNAs encoding the immunoglobulin heavy chain fusions and if desired the immunoglobulin light chain are inserted into separate expression vectors and are co transfected into a suitable host organism. This provides for great flexibility in adjusting the mutual proportions of the three polypeptide fragments in embodiments when unequal ratios of the three polypeptide chains used in the construction provide the optimum yields. It is however possible to insert the coding sequences for two or all three polypeptide chains in one expression vector when the expression of at least two polypeptide chains in equal ratios results in high yields or when the ratios are of no particular significance.

In a preferred embodiment of this approach the bispecific antibodies are composed of a hybrid immunoglobulin heavy chain with a first binding specificity in one arm and a hybrid immunoglobulin heavy chain light chain pair providing a second binding specificity in the other arm. It was found that this asymmetric structure facilitates the separation of the desired bispecific compound from unwanted immunoglobulin chain combinations as the presence of an immunoglobulin light chain in only one half of the bispecific molecule provides for a facile way of separation. This approach is disclosed in WO 94 04690. For further details of generating bispecific antibodies see for example Suresh et al. 121 210 1986 .

According to another approach described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 731 168 the interface between a pair of antibody molecules can be engineered to maximize the percentage of heterodimers which are recovered from recombinant cell culture. The preferred interface comprises at least a part of the C3 domain of an antibody constant domain. In this method one or more small amino acid side chains from the interface of the first antibody molecule are replaced with larger side chains e.g. tyrosine or tryptophan . Compensatory cavities of identical or similar size to the large side chain s are created on the interface of the second antibody molecule by replacing large amino acid side chains with smaller ones e.g. alanine or threonine . This provides a mechanism for increasing the yield of the heterodimer over other unwanted end products such as homodimers.

Bispecific antibodies include cross linked or heteroconjugate antibodies. For example one of the antibodies in the heteroconjugate can be coupled to avidin the other to biotin. Such antibodies have for example been proposed to target immune system cells to unwanted cells U.S. Pat. No. 4 676 980 and for treatment of HIV infection WO 91 00360 WO 92 200373 and EP 03089 . Heteroconjugate antibodies may be made using any convenient cross linking methods. Suitable cross linking agents are well known in the art and are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 676 980 along with a number of cross linking techniques.

Techniques for generating bispecific antibodies from antibody fragments have also been described in the literature. For example bispecific antibodies can be prepared using chemical linkage. Brennan et al. 229 81 1985 describe a procedure wherein intact antibodies are proteolytically cleaved to generate F ab fragments. These fragments are reduced in the presence of the dithiol complexing agent sodium arsenite to stabilize vicinal dithiols and prevent intermolecular disulfide formation. The Fab fragments generated are then converted to thionitrobenzoate TNB derivatives. One of the Fab TNB derivatives is then reconverted to the Fab thiol by reduction with mercaptoethylamine and is mixed with an equimolar amount of the other Fab TNB derivative to form the bispecific antibody. The bispecific antibodies produced can be used as agents for the selective immobilization of enzymes.

Recent progress has facilitated the direct recovery of Fab SH fragments from which can be chemically coupled to form bispecific antibodies. Shalaby et al. 175 217 225 1992 describe the production of a fully humanized bispecific antibody F ab molecule. Each Fab fragment was separately secreted from and subjected to directed chemical coupling in vitro to form the bispecific antibody. The bispecific antibody thus formed was able to bind to cells overexpressing the HER2 receptor and normal human T cells as well as trigger the lytic activity of human cytotoxic lymphocytes against human breast tumor targets.

Various techniques for making and isolating bispecific antibody fragments directly from recombinant cell culture have also been described. For example bispecific antibodies have been produced using leucine zippers. Kostelny et al. 148 5 1547 1553 1992 . The leucine zipper peptides from the Fos and Jun proteins were linked to the Fab portions of two different antibodies by gene fusion. The antibody homodimers were reduced at the hinge region to form monomers and then re oxidized to form the antibody heterodimers. This method can also be utilized for the production of antibody homodimers. The diabody technology described by Hollinger et al. 90 6444 6448 1993 has provided an alternative mechanism for making bispecific antibody fragments. The fragments comprise a heavy chain variable domain V connected to a light chain variable domain V by a linker which is too short to allow pairing between the two domains on the same chain. Accordingly the Vand Vdomains of one fragment are forced to pair with the complementary Vand Vdomains of another fragment thereby forming two antigen binding sites. Another strategy for making bispecific antibody fragments by the use of single chain Fv sFv dimers has also been reported. See Gruber et al. 152 5368 1994 .

Antibodies with more than two valencies are contemplated. For example trispecific antibodies can be prepared. Tutt et al. 147 60 1991 .

Amino acid sequence modification s of the HER2 antibodies described herein are contemplated. For example it may be desirable to improve the binding affinity and or other biological properties of the antibody. Amino acid sequence variants of the HER2 antibody are prepared by introducing appropriate nucleotide changes into the HER2 antibody nucleic acid or by peptide synthesis. Such modifications include for example deletions from and or insertions into and or substitutions of residues within the amino acid sequences of the HER2 antibody. Any combination of deletion insertion and substitution is made to arrive at the final construct provided that the final construct possesses the desired characteristics. The amino acid changes also may alter post translational processes of the HER2 antibody such as changing the number or position of glycosylation sites.

A useful method for identification of certain residues or regions of the HER2 antibody that are preferred locations for mutagenesis is called alanine scanning mutagenesis as described by Cunningham and Wells Science 244 1081 1085 1989 . Here a residue or group of target residues are identified e.g. charged residues such as arg asp his lys and glu and replaced by a neutral or negatively charged amino acid most preferably alanine or polyalanine to affect the interaction of the amino acids with HER2 antigen. Those amino acid locations demonstrating functional sensitivity to the substitutions then are refined by introducing further or other variants at or for the sites of substitution. Thus while the site for introducing an amino acid sequence variation is predetermined the nature of the mutation per se need not be predetermined. For example to analyze the performance of a mutation at a given site ala scanning or random mutagenesis is conducted at the target codon or region and the expressed HER2 antibody variants are screened for the desired activity.

Amino acid sequence insertions include amino and or carboxyl terminal fusions ranging in length from one residue to polypeptides containing a hundred or more residues as well as intrasequence insertions of single or multiple amino acid residues. Examples of terminal insertions include a HER2 antibody with an N terminal methionyl residue or the antibody fused to a cytotoxic polypeptide. Other insertional variants of the HER2 antibody molecule include the fusion to the N or C terminus of the HER2 antibody to an enzyme e.g. for ADEPT or a polypeptide which increases the serum half life of the antibody.

Another type of variant is an amino acid substitution variant. These variants have at least one amino acid residue in the HER2 antibody molecule replaced by a different residue. The sites of greatest interest for substitutional mutagenesis include the hypervariable regions or CDRs but FR or Fc region alterations are also contemplated. Conservative substitutions are shown in Table 1 under the heading of preferred substitutions . If such substitutions result in a change in biological activity then more substantial changes denominated exemplary substitutions in Table 1 or as further described below in reference to amino acid classes may be introduced and the products screened.

Substantial modifications in the biological properties of the antibody are accomplished by selecting substitutions that differ significantly in their effect on maintaining a the structure of the polypeptide backbone in the area of the substitution for example as a sheet or helical conformation b the charge or hydrophobicity of the molecule at the target site or c the bulk of the side chain. Amino acids may be grouped according to similarities in the properties of their side chains in A. L. Lehninger in second ed. pp. 73 75 Worth Publishers New York 1975 

Alternatively naturally occurring residues may be divided into groups based on common side chain properties 

Non conservative substitutions will entail exchanging a member of one of these classes for another class.

Any cysteine residue not involved in maintaining the proper conformation of the HER2 antibody also may be substituted generally with serine to improve the oxidative stability of the molecule and prevent aberrant crosslinking Conversely cysteine bond s may be added to the antibody to improve its stability particularly where the antibody is an antibody fragment such as an Fv fragment .

A particularly preferred type of substitutional variant involves substituting one or more hypervariable region residues of a parent antibody e.g. a humanized or human antibody . Generally the resulting variant s selected for further development will have improved biological properties relative to the parent antibody from which they are generated. A convenient way for generating such substitutional variants involves affinity maturation using phage display. Briefly several hypervariable region sites e.g. 6 7 sites are mutated to generate all possible amino substitutions at each site. The antibody variants thus generated are displayed in a monovalent fashion from filamentous phage particles as fusions to the gene III product of M13 packaged within each particle. The phage displayed variants are then screened for their biological activity e.g. binding affinity as herein disclosed. In order to identify candidate hypervariable region sites for modification alanine scanning mutagenesis can be performed to identify hypervariable region residues contributing significantly to antigen binding. Alternatively or additionally it may be beneficial to analyze a crystal structure of the antigen antibody complex to identify contact points between the antibody and huma HER2. Such contact residues and neighboring residues are candidates for substitution according to the techniques elaborated herein. Once such variants are generated the panel of variants is subjected to screening as described herein and antibodies with superior properties in one or more relevant assays may be selected for further development.

Another type of amino acid variant of the antibody alters the original glycosylation pattern of the antibody. By altering is meant deleting one or more carbohydrate moieties found in the antibody and or adding one or more glycosylation sites that are not present in the antibody.

Glycosylation of antibodies is typically either N linked or O linked. N linked refers to the attachment of the carbohydrate moiety to the side chain of an asparagine residue. The tripeptide sequences asparagine X serine and asparagine X threonine where X is any amino acid except proline are the recognition sequences for enzymatic attachment of the carbohydrate moiety to the asparagine side chain. Thus the presence of either of these tripeptide sequences in a polypeptide creates a potential glycosylation site. O linked glycosylation refers to the attachment of one of the sugars N aceylgalactosamine galactose or xylose to a hydroxyamino acid most commonly serine or threonine although 5 hydroxyproline or 5 hydroxylysine may also be used.

Addition of glycosylation sites to the antibody is conveniently accomplished by altering the amino acid sequence such that it contains one or more of the above described tripeptide sequences for N linked glycosylation sites . The alteration may also be made by the addition of or substitution by one or more serine or threonine residues to the sequence of the original antibody for O linked glycosylation sites .

Where the antibody comprises an Fc region any oligosaccharide structure attached thereto may be altered. For example antibodies with a mature carbohydrate structure that lacks fucose attached to an Fc region of the antibody are described in US Pat Appl No US 2003 0157108 A1 Presta L. See also US 2004 0093621 A1 Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Co. Ltd . Antibodies with a bisecting N acetylglucosamine GlcNAc in the oligosaccharide structure attached to an Fc region of the antibody are referenced in WO03 011878 Jean Mairet et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 602 684 Umana et al. Antibodies with at least one galactose residue in an oligosaccharide structure attached to an Fc region of the antibody are reported in WO97 30087 Patel et al. See also WO98 58964 Raju S. and WO99 22764 Raju S. concerning antibodies with altered carbohydrate attached to the Fc region thereof. Antibody compositions comprising main species antibody with such carbohydrate structures attached to one or two heavy chains of the Fc region are contemplated herein.

Nucleic acid molecules encoding amino acid sequence variants of the HER2 antibody are prepared by a variety of methods known in the art. These methods include but are not limited to isolation from a natural source in the case of naturally occurring amino acid sequence variants or preparation by oligonucleotide mediated or site directed mutagenesis PCR mutagenesis and cassette mutagenesis of an earlier prepared variant or a non variant version of the HER2 antibody.

Techniques for generating antibodies have been described above. One may further select antibodies with certain biological characteristics as desired.

To identify an antibody which blocks ligand activation of a HER receptor the ability of the antibody to block HER ligand binding to cells expressing the HER receptor e.g. in conjugation with another HER receptor with which the HER receptor of interest forms a HER hetero oligomer may be determined. For example cells naturally expressing or transfected to express HER receptors of the HER hetero oligomer may be incubated with the antibody and then exposed to labeled HER ligand. The ability of the HER2 antibody to block ligand binding to the HER receptor in the HER hetero oligomer may then be evaluated.

For example inhibition of HRG binding to MCF7 breast tumor cell lines by HER2 antibodies may be performed using monolayer MCF7 cultures on ice in a 24 well plate format essentially as described in WO01 00245. HER2 monoclonal antibodies may be added to each well and incubated for 30 minutes. I labeled rHRG 1 25 pm may then be added and the incubation may be continued for 4 to 16 hours. Dose response curves may be prepared and an ICvalue may be calculated for the antibody of interest. In one embodiment the antibody which blocks ligand activation of an HER receptor will have an ICfor inhibiting HRG binding to MCF7 cells in this assay of about 50 nM or less more preferably 10 nM or less. Where the antibody is an antibody fragment such as a Fab fragment the ICfor inhibiting HRG binding to MCF7 cells in this assay may for example be about 100 nM or less more preferably 50 nM or less.

Alternatively or additionally the ability of the HER2 antibody to block HER ligand stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of a HER receptor present in a HER hetero oligomer may be assessed. For example cells endogenously expressing the HER receptors or transfected to expressed them may be incubated with the antibody and then assayed for HER ligand dependent tyrosine phosphorylation activity using an anti phosphotyrosine monoclonal which is optionally conjugated with a detectable label . The kinase receptor activation assay described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 766 863 is also available for determining HER receptor activation and blocking of that activity by an antibody.

In one embodiment one may screen for an antibody which inhibits HRG stimulation of p180 tyrosine phosphorylation in MCF7 cells essentially as described in WO01 00245. For example the MCF7 cells may be plated in 24 well plates and monoclonal antibodies to HER2 may be added to each well and incubated for 30 minutes at room temperature then rHRG 1may be added to each well to a final concentration of 0.2 nM and the incubation may be continued for 8 minutes. Media may be aspirated from each well and reactions may be stopped by the addition of 100 l of SDS sample buffer 5 SDS 25 mM DTT and 25 mM Tris HCl pH 6.8 . Each sample 25 l may be electrophoresed on a 4 12 gradient gel Novex and then electrophoretically transferred to polyvinylidene difluoride membrane. Antiphosphotyrosine at 1 g ml immunoblots may be developed and the intensity of the predominant reactive band at M 180 000 may be quantified by reflectance densitometry. The antibody selected will preferably significantly inhibit HRG stimulation of p180 tyrosine phosphorylation to about 0 35 of control in this assay. A dose response curve for inhibition of HRG stimulation of p180 tyrosine phosphorylation as determined by reflectance densitometry may be prepared and an ICfor the antibody of interest may be calculated. In one embodiment the antibody which blocks ligand activation of a HER receptor will have an ICfor inhibiting HRG stimulation of p180 tyrosine phosphorylation in this assay of about 50 nM or less more preferably 10 nM or less. Where the antibody is an antibody fragment such as a Fab fragment the ICfor inhibiting HRG stimulation of p180 tyrosine phosphorylation in this assay may for example be about 100 nM or less more preferably 50 nM or less.

One may also assess the growth inhibitory effects of the antibody on MDA MB 175 cells e.g essentially as described in Schaefer et al. 15 1385 1394 1997 . According to this assay MDA MB 175 cells may treated with a HER2 monoclonal antibody 10 g mL for 4 days and stained with crystal violet. Incubation with a HER2 antibody may show a growth inhibitory effect on this cell line similar to that displayed by monoclonal antibody 2C4. In a further embodiment exogenous HRG will not significantly reverse this inhibition. Preferably the antibody will be able to inhibit cell proliferation of MDA MB 175 cells to a greater extent than monoclonal antibody 4D5 and optionally to a greater extent than monoclonal antibody 7F3 both in the presence and absence of exogenous HRG.

In one embodiment the HER2 antibody of interest may block heregulin dependent association of HER2 with HER3 in both MCF7 and SK BR 3 cells as determined in a co immunoprecipitation experiment such as that described in WO01 00245 substantially more effectively than monoclonal antibody 4D5 and preferably substantially more effectively than monoclonal antibody 7F3.

To identify growth inhibitory HER2 antibodies one may screen for antibodies which inhibit the growth of cancer cells which overexpress HER2. In one embodiment the growth inhibitory antibody of choice is able to inhibit growth of SK BR 3 cells in cell culture by about 20 100 and preferably by about 50 100 at an antibody concentration of about 0.5 to 30 g ml. To identify such antibodies the SK BR 3 assay described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 677 171 can be performed. According to this assay SK BR 3 cells are grown in a 1 1 mixture of F12 and DMEM medium supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum glutamine and penicillin streptomycin. The SK BR 3 cells are plated at 20 000 cells in a 35 mm cell culture dish 2 mls 35 mm dish . 0.5 to 30 g ml of the HER2 antibody is added per dish. After six days the number of cells compared to untreated cells are counted using an electronic COULTER cell counter. Those antibodies which inhibit growth of the SK BR 3 cells by about 20 100 or about 50 100 may be selected as growth inhibitory antibodies. See U.S. Pat. No. 5 677 171 for assays for screening for growth inhibitory antibodies such as 4D5 and 3E8.

In order to select for antibodies which induce apoptosis an annexin binding assay using BT474 cells is available. The BT474 cells are cultured and seeded in dishes as discussed in the preceding paragraph. The medium is then removed and replaced with fresh medium alone or medium containing 10 g ml of the monoclonal antibody. Following a three day incubation period monolayers are washed with PBS and detached by trypsinization. Cells are then centrifuged resuspended in Ca binding buffer and aliquoted into tubes as discussed above for the cell death assay. Tubes then receive labeled annexin e.g. annexin V FTIC 1 g ml . Samples may be analyzed using a FACSCAN flow cytometer and FACSCONVERT CellQuest software Becton Dickinson . Those antibodies which induce statistically significant levels of annexin binding relative to control are selected as apoptosis inducing antibodies. In addition to the annexin binding assay a DNA staining assay using BT474 cells is available. In order to perform this assay BT474 cells which have been treated with the antibody of interest as described in the preceding two paragraphs are incubated with 9 g ml HOECHST 33342 for 2 hr at 37 C. then analyzed on an EPICS ELITE flow cytometer Coulter Corporation using MODFIT LT software Verity Software House . Antibodies which induce a change in the percentage of apoptotic cells which is 2 fold or greater and preferably 3 fold or greater than untreated cells up to 100 apoptotic cells may be selected as pro apoptotic antibodies using this assay. See WO98 17797 for assays for screening for antibodies which induce apoptosis such as 7C2 and 7F3.

To screen for antibodies which bind to an epitope on HER2 bound by an antibody of interest a routine cross blocking assay such as that described in Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Ed Harlow and David Lane 1988 can be performed to assess whether the antibody cross blocks binding of an antibody such as 2C4 or Pertuzumab to HER2. Alternatively or additionally epitope mapping can be performed by methods known in the art and or one can study the antibody HER2 structure Franklin et al. 5 317 328 2004 to see what domain s of HER2 is are bound by the antibody.

The invention also pertains to immunoconjugates comprising an antibody conjugated to a cytotoxic agent such as a chemotherapeutic agent toxin e.g. a small molecule toxin or an enzymatically active toxin of bacterial fungal plant or animal origin including fragments and or variants thereof or a radioactive isotope i.e. a radioconjugate .

Chemotherapeutic agents useful in the generation of such immunoconjugates have been described above. Conjugates of an antibody and one or more small molecule toxins such as a calicheamicin a maytansine U.S. Pat. No. 5 208 020 a trichothene and CC1065 are also contemplated herein.

In one preferred embodiment of the invention the antibody is conjugated to one or more maytansine molecules e.g. about 1 to about 10 maytansine molecules per antibody molecule . Maytansine may for example be converted to May SS Me which may be reduced to May SH3 and reacted with modified antibody Chari et al. 52 127 131 1992 to generate a maytansinoid antibody immunoconjugate.

Another immunoconjugate of interest comprises a HER2 antibody conjugated to one or more calicheamicin molecules. The calicheamicin family of antibiotics are capable of producing double stranded DNA breaks at sub picomolar concentrations. Structural analogues of calicheamicin which may be used include but are not limited to N acetyl PSAG and Hinman et al. 53 3336 3342 1993 and Lode et al. 58 2925 2928 1998 . See also U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 714 586 5 712 374 5 264 586 and 5 773 001 expressly incorporated herein by reference.

Enzymatically active toxins and fragments thereof which can be used include diphtheria A chain nonbinding active fragments of diphtheria toxin exotoxin A chain from ricin A chain abrin A chain modeccin A chain alpha sarcin proteins dianthin proteins proteins PAPI PAPII and PAP S inhibitor curcin crotin sapaonaria officinalis inhibitor gelonin mitogellin restrictocin phenomycin enomycin and the tricothecenes. See for example WO 93 21232 published Oct. 28 1993.

The present invention further contemplates an immunoconjugate formed between an antibody and a compound with nucleolytic activity e.g. a ribonuclease or a DNA endonuclease such as a deoxyribonuclease DNase .

A variety of radioactive isotopes are available for the production of radioconjugated HER2 antibodies. Examples include At I I Y Re Sm Bi Pand radioactive isotopes of Lu.

Conjugates of the antibody and cytotoxic agent may be made using a variety of bifunctional protein coupling agents such as N succinimidyl 3 2 pyridyldithiol propionate SPDP succinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate iminothiolane IT bifunctional derivatives of imidoesters such as dimethyl adipimidate HCL active esters such as disuccinimidyl suberate aldehydes such as glutareldehyde bis azido compounds such as bis p azidobenzoyl hexanediamine bis diazonium derivatives such as bis p diazoniumbenzoyl ethylenediamine diisocyanates such as tolyene 2 6 diisocyanate and bis active fluorine compounds such as 1 5 difluoro 2 4 dinitrobenzene . For example a ricin immunotoxin can be prepared as described in Vitetta et al. 238 1098 1987 . Carbon 14 labeled 1 isothiocyanatobenzyl 3 methyldiethylene triaminepentaacetic acid MX DTPA is an exemplary chelating agent for conjugation of radionucleotide to the antibody. See WO94 11026. The linker may be a cleavable linker facilitating release of the cytotoxic drug in the cell. For example an acid labile linker peptidase sensitive linker dimethyl linker or disulfide containing linker Chari et al. 52 127 131 1992 may be used.

Alternatively a fusion protein comprising the HER2 antibody and cytotoxic agent may be made e.g. by recombinant techniques or peptide synthesis.

In yet another embodiment the antibody may be conjugated to a receptor such streptavidin for utilization in tumor pretargeting wherein the antibody receptor conjugate is administered to the patient followed by removal of unbound conjugate from the circulation using a clearing agent and then administration of a ligand e.g. avidin which is conjugated to a cytotoxic agent e.g. a radionucleotide .

Other modifications of the antibody are contemplated herein. For example the antibody may be linked to one of a variety of nonproteinaceous polymers e.g. polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol polyoxyalkylenes or copolymers of polyethylene glycol and polypropylene glycol. The antibody also may be entrapped in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nano particles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in 16th edition Oslo A. Ed. 1980 .

It may be desirable to modify the antibody of the invention with respect to effector function e.g. so as to enhance antigen dependent cell mediated cyotoxicity ADCC and or complement dependent cytotoxicity CDC of the antibody. This may be achieved by introducing one or more amino acid substitutions in an Fc region of the antibody. Alternatively or additionally cysteine residue s may be introduced in the Fc region thereby allowing interchain disulfide bond formation in this region. The homodimeric antibody thus generated may have improved internalization capability and or increased complement mediated cell killing and antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity ADCC . See Caron et al. 176 1191 1195 1992 and Shopes B. 148 2918 2922 1992 . Homodimeric antibodies with enhanced anti tumor activity may also be prepared using heterobifunctional cross linkers as described in Wolff et al. 53 2560 2565 1993 . Alternatively an antibody can be engineered which has dual Fc regions and may thereby have enhanced complement lysis and ADCC capabilities. See Stevenson et al. 3 219 230 1989 .

WO00 42072 Presta L. describes antibodies with improved ADCC function in the presence of human effector cells where the antibodies comprise amino acid substitutions in the Fc region thereof. Preferably the antibody with improved ADCC comprises substitutions at positions 298 333 and or 334 of the Fc region. Preferably the altered Fc region is a human IgG1 Fc region comprising or consisting of substitutions at one two or three of these positions.

Antibodies with altered C1q binding and or complement dependent cytotoxicity CDC are described in WO99 51642 U.S. Pat. No. 6 194 551B1 U.S. Pat. No. 6 242 195B1 U.S. Pat. No. 6 528 624B1 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 538 124 Idusogie et al. . The antibodies comprise an amino acid substitution at one or more of amino acid positions 270 322 326 327 329 313 333 and or 334 of the Fc region thereof.

To increase the serum half life of the antibody one may incorporate a salvage receptor binding epitope into the antibody especially an antibody fragment as described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 739 277 for example. As used herein the term salvage receptor binding epitope refers to an epitope of the Fc region of an IgG molecule e.g. IgG IgG IgG or IgG that is responsible for increasing the in vivo serum half life of the IgG molecule. Antibodies with substitutions in an Fc region thereof and increased serum half lives are also described in WO00 42072 Presta L. .

Engineered antibodies with three or more preferably four functional antigen binding sites are also contemplated US Appin No. US2002 0004587 A1 Miller et al. .

The HER2 antibodies disclosed herein may also be formulated as immunoliposomes. Liposomes containing the antibody are prepared by methods known in the art such as described in Epstein et al. 82 3688 1985 Hwang et al. 77 4030 1980 U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 485 045 and 4 544 545 and WO97 38731 published Oct. 23 1997. Liposomes with enhanced circulation time are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 013 556.

Particularly useful liposomes can be generated by the reverse phase evaporation method with a lipid composition comprising phosphatidylcholine cholesterol and PEG derivatized phosphatidylethanolamine PEG PE . Liposomes are extruded through filters of defined pore size to yield liposomes with the desired diameter. Fab fragments of the antibody of the present invention can be conjugated to the liposomes as described in Martin et al. 257 286 288 1982 via a disulfide interchange reaction. A chemotherapeutic agent is optionally contained within the liposome. See Gabizon et al. 81 19 1484 1989 .

Therapeutic formulations of the compositions of the present invention are prepared for storage by mixing the composition with optional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers excipients or stabilizers 16th edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 in the form of lyophilized formulations or aqueous solutions. Acceptable carriers excipients or stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugars such as sucrose mannitol trehalose or sorbitol salt forming counter ions such as sodium metal complexes e.g. Zn protein complexes and or non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG . Lyophilized HER2 antibody formulations are described in WO 97 04801. Particularly preferred formulations for the present composition are described in US20006 088523.

The formulation herein may also contain more than one active compound as necessary for the particular indication being treated preferably those with complementary activities that do not adversely affect each other. For example it may be desirable to further provide antibodies which bind to EGFR HER2 e.g. an antibody which binds a different epitope on HER2 HER3 HER4 or vascular endothelial factor VEGF in the one formulation. Alternatively or additionally the composition may further comprise a chemotherapeutic agent cytotoxic agent cytokine growth inhibitory agent anti hormonal agent EGFR targeted drug anti angiogenic agent tyrosine kinase inhibitor and or cardioprotectant. Such molecules are suitably present in combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended.

The active ingredients may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nano particles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in 16th edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 .

Sustained release preparations may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing the antibody which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinylalcohol polylactides U.S. Pat. No. 3 773 919 copolymers of L glutamic acid and ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

The formulations to be used for in vivo administration must be sterile. This is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes.

It is contemplated that according to the present invention the HER2 antibody may be used to treat cancer. The cancer will generally be HER2 positive such that the HER2 antibody herein is able to bind to the cancer cells. In one embodiment the cancer expresses low HER3 e.g. ovarian cancer or has elevated HER2 HER3 ratio e.g. ovarian cancer . Various cancers that can be treated with the composition are listed in the definitions section above.

Preferred cancers to be treated herein include breast cancer including HER2 positive breast cancer optionally in combination with trastuzumab and a taxoid such as docetaxel and including neoadjuvant therapy of breast cancer ovarian cancer including both platinum resistant and platinum sensitive ovarian cancer see US2006 0013819 for example lung cancer including non small cell lung cancer NSCLC optionally in combination with an EGFR inhibitor see US 2007 0020261 for example colorectal cancer etc.

It is also contemplated that the HER2 antibody may be used to treat various non malignant diseases or disorders such as autoimmune disease e.g. psoriasis endometriosis scleroderma restenosis polyps such as colon polyps nasal polyps or gastrointestinal polyps fibroadenoma respiratory disease cholecystitis neurofibromatosis polycystic kidney disease inflammatory diseases skin disorders including psoriasis and dermatitis vascular disease conditions involving abnormal proliferation of vascular epithelial cells gastrointestinal ulcers Menetrier s disease secreting adenomas or protein loss syndrome renal disorders angiogenic disorders ocular disease such as age related macular degeneration presumed ocular histoplasmosis syndrome retinal neovascularization from proliferative diabetic retinopathy retinal vascularization diabetic retinopathy or age related macular degeneration bone associated pathologies such as osteoarthritis rickets and osteoporosis damage following a cerebral ischemic event fibrotic or edemia diseases such as hepatic cirrhosis lung fibrosis carcoidosis throiditis hyperviscosity syndrome systemic Osler Weber Rendu disease chronic occlusive pulmonary disease or edema following burns trauma radiation stroke hypoxia or ischemia hypersensitivity reaction of the skin diabetic retinopathy and diabetic nephropathy Guillain Barre syndrome graft versus host disease or transplant rejection Paget s disease bone or joint inflammation photoaging e.g. caused by UV radiation of human skin benign prostatic hypertrophy certain microbial infections including microbial pathogens selected from adenovirus hantaviruses spp. and thrombus caused by platelet aggregation reproductive conditions such as endometriosis ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome preeclampsia dysfunctional uterine bleeding or menometrorrhagia synovitis atheroma acute and chronic nephropathies including proliferative glomerulonephritis and diabetes induced renal disease eczema hypertrophic scar formation endotoxic shock and fungal infection familial adenomatosis polyposis neurodedenerative diseases e.g. Alzheimer s disease AIDS related dementia Parkinson s disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis retinitis pigmentosa spinal muscular atrophy and cerebellar degeneration myelodysplastic syndromes aplastic anemia ischemic injury fibrosis of the lung kidney or liver T cell mediated hypersensitivity disease infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis urinary obstructive syndrome psoriatic arthritis and Hasimoto s thyroiditis. Preferred non malignant indications for therapy herein include psoriasis endometriosis scleroderma vascular disease e.g. restenosis artherosclerosis coronary artery disease or hypertension colon polyps fibroadenoma or respiratory disease e.g. asthma chronic bronchitis bronchieactasis or cystic fibrosis .

Treatment with the HER2 antibody will result in an improvement in the signs or symptoms of disease. For instance where the disease being treated is cancer such therapy may result in an improvement in survival overall survival and or progression free survival and or may result in an objective clinical response partial or complete .

Preferably the HER2 antibody in the composition administered is a naked antibody. However the HER2 antibody administered may be conjugated with a cytotoxic agent. Preferably the immunoconjugate and or HER2 protein to which it is bound is are internalized by the cell resulting in increased therapeutic efficacy of the immunoconjugate in killing the cancer cell to which it binds. In a preferred embodiment the cytotoxic agent targets or interferes with nucleic acid in the cancer cell. Examples of such cytotoxic agents include maytansinoids calicheamicins ribonucleases and DNA endonucleases.

The HER2 antibody is administered to a human patient in accord with known methods such as intravenous administration e.g. as a bolus or by continuous infusion over a period of time by intramuscular intraperitoneal intracerobrospinal subcutaneous intra articular intrasynovial intrathecal oral topical or inhalation routes. Intravenous administration of antibody composition is preferred.

For the prevention or treatment of disease the appropriate dosage of HER2 antibody will depend on the type of disease to be treated as defined above the severity and course of the disease whether the HER2 antibody is administered for preventive or therapeutic purposes previous therapy the patient s clinical history and response to the HER2 antibody and the discretion of the attending physician. The HER2 antibody is suitably administered to the patient at one time or over a series of treatments. Depending on the type and severity of the disease about 1 g kg to 50 mg kg e.g. 0.1 20 mg kg of HER2 antibody is an initial candidate dosage for administration to the patient whether for example by one or more separate administrations or by continuous infusion. In one embodiment the initial infusion time for the HER2 antibody may be longer than subsequent infusion times for instance approximately 90 minutes for the initial infusion and approximately 30 minutes for subsequent infusions if the initial infusion is well tolerated . The preferred dosage of the HER2 antibody will be in the range from about 0.05 mg kg to about 10 mg kg. Thus one or more doses of about 0.5 mg kg 2.0 mg kg 4.0 mg kg or 10 mg kg or any combination thereof may be administered to the patient. Such doses may be administered intermittently e.g. every week or every three weeks e.g. such that the patient receives from about two to about twenty e.g. about six doses of the HER2 antibody . An initial higher loading dose followed by one or more lower doses may be administered. In one embodiment the HER2 antibody is administered as a loading dose of approximately 840 mg followed by approximately 420 mg administered approximately every 3 weeks. In another embodiment the HER2 antibody is administered as a loading dose of approximately 1050 mg followed by approximately 525 mg administered approximately every 3 weeks.

Other therapeutic agents may be combined with the HER2 antibody. Such combined administration includes coadministration or concurrent administration using separate formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation and consecutive administration in either order wherein preferably there is a time period while both or all active agents simultaneously exert their biological activities. Thus the other therapeutic agent may be administered prior to or following administration of the HER2 antibody. In this embodiment the timing between at least one administration of the other therapeutic agent and at least one administration of the HER2 antibody is preferably approximately 1 month or less and most preferably approximately 2 weeks or less. Alternatively the other therapeutic agent and the HER2 antibody are administered concurrently to the patient in a single formulation or separate formulations.

Examples of other therapeutic agents that can be combined with the HER2 antibody include any one or more of a chemotherapeutic agent such as an anti metabolite e.g. gemcitabine a second different HER2 antibody for example a growth inhibitory HER2 antibody such as Trastuzumab or a HER2 antibody which induces apoptosis of a HER2 overexpressing cell such as 7C2 7F3 or humanized variants thereof a second antibody directed against another tumor associated antigen such as EGFR HER3 HER4 anti hormonal compound e.g. an anti estrogen compound such as tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor a cardioprotectant to prevent or reduce any myocardial dysfunction associated with the therapy a cytokine an EGFR targeted drug such as Erlitonib Gefitinib or Cetuximab an anti angiogenic agent especially Bevacizumab sold by Genentech under the trademark AVASTIN a tyrosine kinase inhibitor a COX inhibitor for instance a COX 1 or COX 2 inhibitor non steroidal anti inflammatory drug Celecoxib CELEBREX farnesyl transferase inhibitor for example Tipifarnib ZARNESTRA R115777 available from Johnson and Johnson or Lonafarnib SCH66336 available from Schering Plough antibody that binds oncofetal protein CA 125 such as Oregovomab MoAb B43.13 HER2 vaccine such as HER2 AutoVac vaccine from Pharmexia or APC8024 protein vaccine from Dendreon or HER2 peptide vaccine from GSK Corixa another HER targeting therapy e.g. trastuzumab cetuximab gefitinib erlotinib CI1033 GW2016 etc Raf and or ras inhibitor see for example WO 2003 86467 Doxil Topetecan taxane GW572016 TLK286 EMD 7200 a medicament that treats nausea such as a serotonin antagonist steroid or benzodiazepine a medicament that prevents or treats skin rash or standard acne therapies including topical or oral antibiotic a body temperature reducing medicament such as acetaminophen diphenhydramine or meperidine hematopoietic growth factor etc.

Suitable dosages for any of the above coadministered agents are those presently used and may be lowered due to the combined action synergy of the agent and HER2 antibody. Treatment with the combination of the HER2 antibody composition and other therapeutic agent may result in a synergistic or greater than additive therapeutic benefit to the patient.

If a chemotherapeutic agent is administered it is usually administered at dosages known therefor or optionally lowered due to combined action of the drugs or negative side effects attributable to administration of the chemotherapeutic agent. Preparation and dosing schedules for such chemotherapeutic agents may be used according to manufacturers instructions or as determined empirically by the skilled practitioner. Preparation and dosing schedules for such chemotherapy are also described in Chemotherapy Service Ed. M. C. Perry Williams Wilkins Baltimore Md. 1992 .

In addition to the above therapeutic regimes the patient may be subjected to surgical removal of cancer cells and or radiation therapy.

The following hybridoma cell lines have been deposited with the American Type Culture Collection 10801 University Boulevard Manassas Va. 20110 2209 USA ATCC 

Further details of the invention are illustrated by the following non limiting Example. The disclosures of all citations in the specification are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

This example describes the characterization of a composition comprising a main species HER2 antibody that binds to domain II of HER2 pertuzumab and acidic variants thereof.

Pertuzumab is a recombinant humanized monoclonal antibody generated based on human IgG1 framework. It comprises two heavy chains 448 residues and two light chains 214 residues . The two heavy chains are linked by two interchain disulfides and each light chain is attached to a heavy chain through one interchain disulfide. There is an N linked glycosylation site in the Fc region of pertuzumab at Asn 299 of the two heavy chains. Pertuzumab differs from HERCEPTIN Trastuzumab in the epitope binding regions of the light chain 12 amino acid differences and the heavy chain 30 amino acid differences . As a result of these differences pertuzumab binds to a completely different epitope on the HER2 receptor. Binding of pertuzumab to the HER2 receptor on human epithelial cells prevents it from forming complexes with other members of the HER receptor family Agus et al. 2 127 137 2002 . By blocking complex formation pertuzumab prevents the growth stimulatory effects of ligands for the complexes e.g. EGF and heregulin . In vitro experiments demonstrated that both pertuzumab and pertuzumab Fab inhibit the binding of heregulin HRG to MCF7 cells and that the HRG stimulated phosphorylation of the HER2 HER3 complex can be inhibited by both pertuzumab and pertuzumab Fab Agus et al. 2 127 137 2002 . Furthermore in vivo inhibition of tumor growth by pertuzumab and a polyethylene glycol derivatized Fab of pertuzumab were found to be comparable in a murine prostate cancer xenograft model Agus et al. 2 127 137 2002 . These data suggest that the Fc region of the antibody is not necessary for the inhibition of tumor growth and moreover bivalency and Fc mediated effector functions are not required for in vivo or in vitro biological activity.

In this example the main peak of pertuzumab was collected from a cation exchange column and incubated in cell culture media or processed using standard antibody purification operations. Acidic variants formed upon incubation of main peak with cell culture media components. Acidic variants of monoclonal antibodies are modified forms of the desired product that elute earlier than the main peak upon separation by cation exchange chromatography. Subtle differences in the amount and or distribution of acidic variants are often observed pre and post process changes and pose a challenge to demonstrating product comparability. Purification operations had little effect on formation of acidic variants. Variants identified in the acidic variant fraction included glycated variant deamidated variant disulfide reduced variant sialylated variant and non reducible variant. Collectively the acidic variants were fully potent.

Amongst other things the purpose of this study was to better understand the impact of cell culture and recovery processes on pertuzumab acidic variant formation characterize the predominant acidic variants of pertuzumab and evaluate the impact of acidic variants on pharmacokinetics PK .

Rat pharmacokinetic results show that the area under the curve for the acidic variant fraction and main peak fraction were equivalent to pertuzumab starting material geometric mean ratios 0.96 and 0.95 respectively . These results demonstrate that although acidic variants are chemically different from the main peak they have equivalent pharmacokinetics.

Potency and monomer content were similar among the pertuzmab starting material main peak and acidic variants . Purity of the main peak and acidic variant CEX fractions was acceptable for pharmacokinetics studies based on the criteria of 90 purity by CEX .

Pertuzumab main peak isolated by CEX was spiked into either fresh or spent cell culture media no cells and incubated for 12 days at 37 C. as outlined in . Samples at various time points were directly analyzed by CEX or after isolation by protein A. Main peak was also spiked into media various media components such as glucose and peptone. In addition main peak was processed through standard recovery operations such as protein A chromatorgraphy ProA low pH treatment and SP Sepharose Fast Flow SPFF for multiple cycles and analyzed by CEX.

CEX profiles of main peak incubated for 12 days in fresh or spent media were similar . Main peak decreased more after incubation in fresh media than in spent media. Removal of various media components did affect the decrease of main peak. Percent main peak in incubated samples was the same with and without protein A isolation. Incubation in media buffer alone caused a loss of main peak.

Protein A isolation of main peak from media did not affect the CEX profile demonstrating that modifications during incubation do not affect protein A binding or elution. Recovery operations had little or no effect on the percent CEX main peak.

Pertuzumab acidic variants were isolated by CEX from pertuzumab starting material or main peak incubated in cell culture media The isolated acidic variants were analyzed by the methods listed in . Acidic variants comprise 21 of total peak area therefore about 80 17 of 21 of acidic variants were identified. Deamidated forms could not be quantified.

Forms identified in acidic variants generated by main peak incubated with media were the same as those identified in pertuzumab starting material. The following forms were detected sialylated variant disulfide reduced variant glycated variant non reducible variant and deamidated variant. Higher order glycated forms were identified by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry ESI MS after reduction and PNGase treatment.

A single intravenous IV dose of 10 mg kg 12 rats per arm 3 arms acidic variants main peak pertuzumab starting material . Extensive PK sampling was conducted for 35 days. Geometric Mean Ratio of AUC Day 0 14 between acidic main peak and pertuzumab starting material. Geometric Mean Ratio GM Sample GM IgG1 Starting Material. Pertuzumab concentration versus time curve were similar for the pertuzumab starting material acidic variant and main peak . No significant difference in exposure was observed between acidic variants main peak and pertuzumab starting material. The GMR was 1.0 with 90 CI between 0.80 1.25.

Multiple cell culture factors contribute to acidic variant formation but recovery was not shown to effect acidic variant formation. Disulfide reduced non reducible sialylated glycated and deamidated variants were identified in the acidic fraction. Acidic fraction isolated from pertuzumab starting material and those generated by incubation of CEX main peak contained the same forms. Acidic variants main peak and pertuzumab starting material had the same pharmacokinetics.

