---

title: Video playback device and video recording device
abstract: A system is provided for transmitting a video played back from a video recording medium which stores the video and additional information without loss of an association between the video and the additional information even when a remote pickup unit (RPU) is employed for the transmission A video playback device plays back videos while repeatedly converting the content of an additional information file associated with a video file to be played back or ID information of the video file into a two-dimensional code, and inserting the two-dimensional code over a predetermined length before the video. A video recording device which receives a video from the video playback device detects a two-dimensional code inserted in the video, and stores the content of the two-dimensional code as an additional information file into its own recording medium in association with the video.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09524754&OS=09524754&RS=09524754
owner: Panasonic Intellectual Property Management Co., Ltd.
number: 09524754
owner_city: Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140306
---
This application claims priority to Japanese Patent Application No. 2013 258917 filed on Dec. 16 2013 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates to video playback devices which use a recording medium storing a video and additional information associated with the video and video recording devices which record a video and additional information associated with the video to a recording medium.

For example Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication No. H07 67066 describes a video recording device which records a video as a file to a recording medium such as a semiconductor memory device etc.

Such a video recording device which records a video as a file may also record additional information associated with a captured video to a recording medium. Examples of the additional information include technical information about a video compression scheme used in recording the video etc. and information about a subject itself of the video a place where the video has been captured etc.

For example Japanese Unexamined Patent Publication No. 2007 082088 describes a video recording device which records additional information associated with a video in association with the time axis of the video. Specifically this video recording device includes an additional information input button as additional information input means involved in the user s action. The additional information input button includes three buttons which are provided on a side surface of a camcorder. Of the three buttons for example a first button is for registering an important scene a second button is for switching a mode between a button operation mode and a character input mode and a third button is for canceling registration. By pressing down the additional information input button when an important scene is encountered during shooting additional information such as a mark a text etc. can be added to the important captured scene. Note that text information may be input by the video recording device recognizing a video or an audio and automatically generating a text corresponding to the video or the audio.

Thus a marker for an important scene is stored in association with a video. This makes it dramatically easier to pick up important portions from a long video when the video is subsequently edited and used e.g. only important portions are extracted and used in a news program . When a text is used as additional information a video can be searched using the additional information and therefore the reuse of the video is dramatically facilitated.

Note that the additional information is typically recorded to the same recording medium in which the corresponding video is recorded in association with the video by being stored as an eXtensible Markup Language XML file or a text file or being embedded as a metadata in a video file.

It is assumed that a video captured by a video recording device is transferred from a place where shooting is performed to another place. For example during news gathering a news journalist or reporter from a broadcast station may desire to send a video captured on location to the station soon after shooting.

As described above additional information is recorded as a text file or metadata in a video file and therefore when files recorded in a recording medium are directly transferred a video and its additional information are transferred to a remote place while an association therebetween is maintained. Specifically when all files recorded in a recording medium are transferred through Internet access using the File Transfer Protocol FTP a video can be transferred without loss of its additional information.

However in practical situations it is often difficult to find Internet access whose speed is high enough to transfer a video file having image quality needed by a broadcast station in a practical time at a remote location. In such circumstances a video transmission device for a television broadcasting system which is called a remote pickup unit RPU or a microwave link is commonly used.

The RPU is a video transmission device which includes a transmitter and a receiver. Ultra high frequency UHF waves or microwaves are used for communication between the transmitter and the receiver. A video images and sounds to be transmitted is supplied to the transmitter by directly inputting signals of a video camera a microphone etc. to the transmitter through a coaxial cable. In other words the RPU transmits only images and sounds captured by a video camera to a remote place.

This means that additional information which is added during shooting is lost through the RPU and therefore is not found by the receiver of the video. In other words due to the use of the RPU the above benefits an improvement in search performance etc. of the additional information are lost.

The present disclosure describes implementations of a system in which a video played back from a recording medium which stores the video and additional information can be transmitted without loss of an association between the video and the additional information even when the transmission is performed using the RPU.

An example video playback device of the present disclosure for playing back a captured video from a recording medium storing the captured video and additional information about the captured video includes a marker image generator configured to convert the additional information into a marker image showing a marker the marker being a symbol allowing a computer to read out information embedded therein by image processing a marker image inserter configured to insert the marker image into a predetermined position in the captured video and a video sender configured to successively send out the marker image inserted by the marker image inserter and the captured video.

An example video recording device of the present disclosure for dividing a single input video signal into a plurality of video files and recording the plurality of video files includes a marker detector configured to detect a marker image inserted as an image in the video signal the marker image showing a marker and the marker being a symbol allowing a computer to read out information embedded therein by image processing an additional information decoder configured to decode the marker in the marker image detected by the marker detector to extract additional information a video data separator configured to separate videos before and after the marker image detected by the marker detector a video data storing unit configured to store the videos separated by the video data separator into a recording medium an additional information storing unit configured to store the additional information extracted by the additional information decoder into the recording medium and a file associating unit configured to associate the video and the additional information having a correspondence relationship with each other in the recording medium.

With the above configurations when the video playback device of the present disclosure is used as a signal source then even if a transfer device such as representatively an RPU etc. which transfers only a video is employed additional information associated with the video is not lost in the receiver of the video. When the video recording device of the present disclosure is used by the receiver then even if a transfer device such as representatively an RPU etc. which transfers only a video is employed a video file and an additional information file associated with the video file can be produced in the receiver. As a result a system can be constructed in which benefits an improvement in convenience during editing an improvement in search performance etc. of the presence of additional information are not lost by the video transfer technique.

Embodiments will be described in detail hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings. To avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present disclosure well known features may not be described or substantially the same elements may not be redundantly described for example. This is for ease of understanding.

The drawings and the following description are provided to enable those skilled in the art to fully understand the present disclosure and are in no way intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure as set forth in the appended claims.

Firstly a configuration of a video playback device will be described. is a block diagram of a video playback device according to a first embodiment. The video playback device plays back a video from a recording medium which stores a captured video and additional information associated with the video.

The video playback device includes a recording medium reader an additional information analyzer a video data decoder a marker image generator a marker image inserter a video sender and a play list manager . The video playback device is a device which plays back a video file and an additional information file stored in the recording medium to generate and output a serial digital interface SDI signal complying with SMPTE M and SMPTE M. Files stored in the recording medium are read out through the recording medium reader . The read data of an additional information file is transferred to the additional information analyzer and the read data of a video file is transferred to the video data decoder . Note that a video file and an additional information file which are to be read out are determined based on a play list managed by the play list manager . The recording medium reader sequentially and successively reads out files about videos listed on the play list.

The additional information analyzer extracts necessary information from an additional information file and transfers the extracted information to the marker image generator . Specific examples of the extracted information will be described below.

The marker image generator includes a two dimensional code generator and a moving image generator . The marker image generator converts data received from the additional information analyzer into a two dimensional code such as a QR code registered trademark specified in ISO IEC 18004 2006 using the two dimensional code generator . The marker image generator also converts the two dimensional code which is a still image into video data hereinafter referred to as a marker image having a predetermined length e.g. one frame to about several seconds using the moving image generator . The produced marker image is transferred to the marker image inserter . Here the marker image is defined as an image which shows a marker which allows a computer to read out information embedded therein by image processing.

On the other hand the video data decoder decodes an input video file when the data of the video file is compressed video data complying with the Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG standards or the DV standards. The decoded video signal is transferred to the marker image inserter . The marker image inserter includes a cut point detector and a mixer .

The cut point detector detects a boundary of a video signal received from the video data decoder . Here the boundary of a video signal is for example a detection of video frames corresponding to the start and end points of video files stored in the recording medium . A boundary corresponds to a point where associated additional information files are changed. In order to insert a marker image into a video boundary the mixer when being notified of detection of a cut point from the cut point detector temporarily stops transferring a video received from the video data decoder to the video sender and instead of this transfers to the video sender a marker image related to an additional information file associated with a video file on the play list which is to be next played back. The video sender includes an SDI signal generator . The video sender converts an input video signal into an SDI signal which can be transmitted through a coaxial cable. The SDI signal thus obtained by the conversion is used as a signal input to the transmitter of an RPU described above.

Next a configuration of a video recording device will be described. is a block diagram of a video recording device according to the first embodiment. The video recording device divides a single input video signal into a plurality of video files and records the video files.

The video recording device includes a video receiver a marker detector a video data separator an additional information decoder a video compressor and a recording medium writer . The video recording device is a device which records to a recording medium a video which is input as an SDI signal via RPU transmission etc.

The video receiver includes an SDI signal decoder . The video receiver decodes an SDI signal input to the video recording device into a video and transfers the video to a monitor the marker detector and the video data separator . The monitor is provided to allow the user to view a video input to the video recording device in real time.

The marker detector monitors an input video to determine whether or not the video contains a decodable two dimensional code. If the marker detector detects such a two dimensional code in the video and determines that the two dimensional code contains additional information associated with the video the marker detector notifies the video data separator of the determination result.

The video data separator continues to transfer input data to the video compressor during the time when there is not the notification from the marker detector . On the other hand when there is the notification from the marker detector the video data separator transfers input data to the additional information decoder . The additional information decoder extracts one frame from an input video and decodes a two dimensional code contained in the frame to obtain the content of an additional information file every time the additional information decoder receives data. The content of the additional information file obtained by the additional information decoder is transferred to an additional information storing unit included in the recording medium writer . On the other hand the video compressor compresses input video data using an algorithm such as MPEG2 DV etc. This is performed to reduce the size of video data occupying a portion of the recording medium. The compressed data is transferred to a video data storing unit included in the recording medium writer . The recording medium writer includes a file associating unit in addition to the additional information storing unit and the video data storing unit .

The file associating unit monitors switching of the outputs of the video data separator to detect a correspondence relationship between additional information and video data. The file associating unit also stores additional information and video data which correspond to each other in association with each other into the recording medium in a manner which allows the association to be recognized. For example as shown in the file associating unit creates a VIDEO folder and a CLIP folder in the recording medium assigns the same file name to a video file and an additional information file which are associated with each other where the file name is followed by the extension MXF Material eXchange Format SMPTEM for the video file and the extension XML for the additional information file and stores the video file and the additional information file into the VIDEO folder and the CLIP folder respectively. As a result the video file and the additional information file are stored in the recording medium with the association therebetween being clearly indicated.

Operation of the video playback device and the video recording device will now be described indicating example data having a specific content.

The recording medium stores the video file and the additional information file which have been recorded by an image capture device . The video file and the additional information file are stored in a file system included in the recording medium with the association therebetween being clearly indicated. An example of this situation is shown in . As shown in the file system in the recording medium has a CONTENTS folder in which all files recorded by the image capture device are stored. There are a VIDEO folder and a CLIP folder in the CONTENTS folder. A video file is stored in the VIDEO folder and an additional information file is stored in the CLIP folder. When a video file and an additional information file which correspond to each other are stored the same name followed by different extensions are assigned to the video file and the additional information file. In the example of a video file named 001.mxf in the VIDEO folder is paired with an additional information file named 001.xml in the CLIP folder. By associating files with each other using a file name the association between the files can be easily determined by a human and a computer.

The video file is stored in a file format called MXF. MXF is a file format which is commonly used for professional video devices. In contrast to this the additional information file is stored in a file format called XML. XML is a markup language which describes a content with considerably high flexibility and therefore is suitable for professional video devices which are required to record various items of additional information.

Firstly a GlobalClipID is an ID for uniquely identifying a video file associated with this additional information file. As described above a video file has a file name such as 001.mxf in a recording medium. The file name cannot be used to uniquely identify the video file in a place away from the recording medium in which the video file is stored. This is more significantly true when the file system MS DOS registered trademark which is employed for SD cards etc. is used as a file system for the recording medium. In this file system file names have at most eight alphanumeric characters. It is obvious that file names are too short to be uniquely assigned to all video files produced all over the world. It is not unusual that two different recording media store video files which have the same name but contain different contents. Therefore for example when data is collected and copied from a plurality of recording media to a single recording medium conflicting file names need to be changed. In other words file names are not always unique IDs for videos.

This is why the above GlobalClipID is employed. This ID is a character string having a sufficient length of alphanumeric characters. A predetermined algorithm is used to generate this type of IDs so that different IDs can always be assigned to different video files. A specific example of the algorithm for generating GlobalClipIDs is the Unique Material Identifier UMID SMPTE M which is a standard for providing material identifiers in the broadcasting business.

Next Duration indicates the length of the video file associated with the additional information file. The unit is a frame. Specifically in the example of the length of a video file is 118 frames.

Next the tag StartTimecode indicates a timecode attached to the start frame of the video file associated with the additional information file. The timecode is time information which is specified in SMPTE M and M and is used for video signals and is used to attach time information which monotonically increases to frames in video information. In the example of the timecode attached to the start frame of the video file associated with the additional information file indicates 16 05 59 27 16 hours 5 minutes 59 seconds 27 frames .

There is also the tag Memos below the tag ClipMetadata. The tag Memos corresponds to information here a text memo attached to a particular position in time i.e. a particular frame of the video file associated with the additional information file. Specifically in the example of the tag Memos indicates that character information President is associated with the 82nd frame from the start frame of the video file. A plurality of the tags Memo may be described below the tag Memos whereby a plurality of text memos may be described in a video at a plurality of positions in time.

The foregoing information is representative of additional information associated with a video file. As described above these items of information are considerably useful when an important scene is searched for during editing of a video when archived video materials are searched for a desired video etc. However these items of information are lost when only a video is transmitted.

A case will now be described where the video playback device of the present disclosure is used to successively play back two videos i.e. video files 001.mxf and 002.mxf stored in the recording medium to generate an SDI signal and transmits the SDI signal using an RPU.

The user notifies the play list manager that a video 001 and a video 002 are to be successively played back. Specifically the user sequentially selects objects to be played back from thumbnails representing video files which are displayed on a display of the video playback device to notify software for managing the order in which videos are played back of videos which are to be played back and the order in which the videos are to be played back.

The play list manager first instructs based on the notified information the recording medium reader to read two files which are the video file 001.mxf and the additional information file 001.xml from the recording medium . After the video 001 has been processed the play list manager instructs the recording medium reader to read files 002.mxf and 002.xml related to the next video 002. A specific example of the recording medium reader may be a file system module of an operating system such as Windows registered trademark or Linux registered trademark . Specifically a file of interest is read from the recording medium by calling an application programming interface API for reading a file which is possessed by the operating system.

Of the files thus read out the content of the video file 001.mxf is transferred to the video data decoder and the content of the additional information file 001.xml is transferred to the additional information analyzer .

The video data decoder is a decoder which is implemented by hardware or software. Video and audio data contained in a file in the mxf format is typically obtained by a predetermined compression process. For example moving images are compressed using H.264 ISO IEC 14496 10 and sounds are compressed using Advanced Audio Coding AAC ISO IEC 13818 7. In order to play back a video file the video and audio data need to be decoded. Therefore the video data decoder is required.

On the other hand the additional information analyzer is software or hardware which extracts necessary information from an additional information file particularly XML parser software in this example. The additional information analyzer interprets XML sentences shown in to read for example that the length of a video file is 118 frames. This information about the length of a video is important information based on which the cut point detector determines the cut point or boundary of a video.

When a two dimensional code is produced in a subsequent step then if only a portion of the information contained in an additional information file is used only information needed in this case is extracted and transferred to the marker image generator . This is because in order to cause the number of characters recorded in a two dimensional code to fall within the restricted range information which can be inferred by the receiver may be removed or redundant information may be removed. Note that in this example all the XML sentences of an additional information file are transferred to the marker image generator .

The two dimensional code generator of the marker image generator receives data from the additional information analyzer . The two dimensional code generator is software or hardware which converts input information into a still image of a two dimensional code. For example shows a two dimensional code which is obtained by converting XML sentences of of this example.

The still image containing the two dimensional code thus produced is transferred to the moving image generator which then converts the still image into a moving image having a predetermined length. Specifically the moving image generator is software or hardware which duplicates frames of the still image of in an amount corresponding to the predetermined length. As used herein the predetermined length refers to a period of time during which a two dimensional code is displayed which is previously set by the user in the video playback device . The predetermined length is one frame to about several seconds in practical use.

The output of the video data decoder and the output of the marker image generator are collected into the mixer . The mixer is software or hardware which can switch a video which is output to the video sender between the output of the video data decoder and the output of the marker image generator according to an instruction from the cut point detector .

The cut point detector is software or hardware which monitors video data which is input from the video data decoder to the mixer to detect a boundary between each video managed by the play list manager . As used herein the boundary with respect to videos refers to in the context of this embodiment a boundary between the end frame of a video related to 001.mxf listed on the play list and the start frame of a video related to 002.mxf which is to be next played back. As a specific example operating principle the boundary between each video may be determined by comparing a length e.g. the number of frames of each video listed on the play list obtained from the additional information analyzer with the length of each video input from the video data decoder to the mixer and the mixer may be notified of the boundary as a cut point detection notification.

The mixer is software or hardware which switches based on the notification from the cut point detector a video which is output to the video sender between the output of the marker image generator and the output of the video data decoder . In this embodiment the mixer first obtains a marker image having the predetermined length related to 001.mxf from the marker image generator and outputs the marker image to the video sender . Following this the mixer obtains video data from the video data decoder and outputs the video data to the video sender . As described above the cut point detector sends the cut point detection notification when the mixer has received the entire video data related to 001.mxf and therefore at this time the mixer switches the source from which video data is obtained back to the marker image generator and obtains a marker image having the predetermined length. The marker image thus obtained is related to 002.mxf. After outputting the marker image having the predetermined length to the video sender the mixer starts obtaining a video from the video data decoder again and outputs a video related to 002.mxf to the video sender . As a result video data such as that shown in is output to the video sender .

The video sender outputs the video data through the SDI signal generator to the outside of the video playback device . The SDI signal generator is software or hardware which converts an input video signal into an uncompressed digital signal specified in SMPTE M etc. and outputs the uncompressed digital signal to a coaxial cable which is connected to a BNC connector included in the video sender .

The above operation of the video playback device allows additional information to be associated with a video in the form of a marker image and be output without being lost due to transmission of an SDI signal.

The video receiver receives an externally input SDI signal. The video receiver is for example hardware which includes a BNC connector and receives a video signal through a coaxial cable connected to the BNC connector. The video receiver also includes the SDI signal decoder . The SDI signal decoder is software or hardware which converts an uncompressed digital signal specified in SMPTE M etc. back into a video which can be visually recognized by a human. For example by the decoding result being output to the monitor the content of a video input to the video recording device can be viewed by the user in real time.

A video decoded by the SDI signal decoder is also input to the marker detector and the video data separator . The marker detector is software or hardware which determines whether or not the input video contains a two dimensional code and if the result of the determination is positive notifies the video data separator of the determination result. The video data separator outputs a video input from the video receiver to the additional information decoder during the time when the marker detector is sending the notification indicating that a two dimensional code has been detected and to the video compressor otherwise. As a result a marker image and a normal video output by the video playback device are separated from each other.

The additional information decoder is software or hardware which interprets a two dimensional code contained in a video and converts the content of the two dimensional code into character information. For example when an input two dimensional code is one that is shown in the additional information decoder obtains character information shown in . The resultant character information is output to the additional information storing unit included in the recording medium writer . The additional information storing unit writes the received data as for example an XML file to the recording medium . A method for determining a file name and a path which are used at that time will be described below.

On the other hand the video compressor is software or hardware which compresses a video portion and an audio portion of an input video using H.264 and AAC respectively. The video compressor outputs the compressed data to the video data storing unit included in the recording medium writer . At this time the compressed data is divided every time the video data separator switches the output destination from the video compressor to the additional information decoder . Specifically when it is assumed that the video data storing unit is a file system module of an operating system a video file is opened when the video data separator switches the output destination from the additional information decoder to the video compressor and a video file is closed when the video data separator switches the output destination from the video compressor to the additional information decoder . As a result for example a portion A and a portion B of the input video of are stored as separate video files into the recording medium .

Note that the video compressor may in principle employ any compression format. Typically the same compression format as that which is used for the video file stored in the recording medium of the video playback device may be employed but this is not necessary. This embodiment is directed to a technique of allowing a video stored in the recording medium of the video playback device and a video stored in the recording medium of the video recording device to have the same content. The two video files do not need to be identical in terms of video format or bitwise identical.

As described above the additional information storing unit and the video data storing unit included in the recording medium writer are software or hardware which writes data as a file to the recording medium and specifically for example are a file system module of an operating system. Specifically by calling an API for writing a file which is possessed by the operating system a file of interest is written to the recording medium .

A file name and a path which are used during writing of a file are determined by the file associating unit included in the recording medium writer . The file associating unit is software or hardware which determines for a pair of a video file and an additional information file a file name and a path which clearly indicate the association therebetween and stores the file name and the path into the recording medium . For example the file associating unit monitors switching of the output of the video data separator . For example when the video data of is processed the video data separator first sets the output destination to the additional information decoder so that the first two dimensional code is processed. After the process has been performed on the two dimensional code the video data separator next sets the output destination to the video compressor so that the video A is processed. After the process has been performed on the video A the video data separator switches the output destination back to the additional information decoder so that the second two dimensional code is processed. At this time this suggests that the processes on the video A and the two dimensional code associated with the video A have been completed. The file associating unit handles a pair of pieces of data which are at this time stored in the additional information storing unit and the video data storing unit together. In order to clearly indicate this relationship for example as shown in the video file is stored into a VIDEO folder in a CONTENTS folder and the additional information file is stored into a CLIP folder in the CONTENTS folder and the same file name excluding an extension is assigned to the video file and the additional information file. In the example of 00a is the common file name and the extension MXF is assigned to the video file and the extension XML is assigned to the additional information file. As a result the relationship between the pair of files can be clearly recognized by a machine and a human s eye.

By the above operation a video file having the same content as that of the video file stored in the recording medium included in the video playback device is recorded into the recording medium included in the video recording device . Moreover an additional information file having completely the same content as that of the additional information file stored in the recording medium included in the video playback device is recorded into the recording medium included in the video recording device . The video file and the additional information file are clearly associated with each other. In other words even when the SDI transfer scheme is employed a video can be transmitted from the video playback device to the video recording device without loss of additional information.

In the first embodiment the marker image generator included in the video playback device encodes the entire content of the additional information file into a two dimensional code. However there is an upper limit on the amount of information which can be contained in a two dimensional code. For example even a QR code registered trademark having the greatest version version 40 and the lowest error correction level level L can store only at most 4296 alphanumeric characters or only at most 1817 characters if KANA and KANJI characters are also used. This may not necessarily be a sufficient size when a video is associated with a large amount of marks and texts as additional information. When a two dimensional code having a large amount of information great version such as that shown in is used the information itself may not be able to be read unless the resolution is maintained to some extent during transmission of a video. The information of a two dimensional code inserted in a video is lost during the course of communication for example if the resolution of the screen is reduced poor analog modulation is included encoding is performed at a high compression ratio etc.

To address this problem a two dimensional code having a smaller version may be used or a two dimensional code having a higher error correction level may be used. This means that the amount of information which can be contained in a two dimensional code is reduced.

Therefore only information for identifying a video file may be incorporated into a two dimensional code contained in a video to be transmitted and detailed additional information may be separately transmitted and may be then associated with the video file in the receiver. This operational form will now be described.

The video playback device of includes in addition to the blocks of the video playback device of an ID extractor in the additional information analyzer . The ID extractor selects only information hereinafter referred to as ID information required in order to uniquely identify a video file from information extracted by the additional information analyzer from the additional information file . The ID information thus selected is transferred to the two dimensional code generator included in the marker image generator and therefore the video playback device of this embodiment converts only the ID information into a two dimensional code instead of the entire additional information file and then adds the two dimensional code to a video.

The video playback device also includes an external connection unit . The external connection unit allows for reference of a file stored in the recording medium through an external terminal .

In addition to the video playback process in the video playback device the user uses the external terminal to obtain and store the additional information file through the external connection unit into the external terminal . Thereafter the user transmits the content of the additional information file from the external terminal to an external server .

With the above configuration a two dimensional code contained in a video which is transmitted from the transmitter of an RPU to a receiver contains only ID information while the entire information contained in an additional information file is stored in the external server .

The video recording device of includes in addition to the blocks included in the video recording device of an additional information file searcher . The additional information file searcher communicates with the outside of the video recording device through an external connection unit included in the video recording device . By this communication the additional information file searcher obtains the entire information contained in additional information from a database server using ID information output from the additional information decoder as a search key. The entire additional information thus obtained is output to the additional information storing unit and is then written to the recording medium .

With the above configuration even when a two dimensional code inserted in a video received by the video receiver contains only ID information the entire additional information can be recorded to the recording medium .

Operation of the video playback device and the video recording device will now be described indicating example data containing a specific content. Note that the same operation as that of the video playback device and the video recording device of the first embodiment will not be described.

Also in this embodiment it is assumed that the video file and the additional information file stored in the recording medium are recorded in the same method as that of the first embodiment and the content of 001.xml which is an example of the additional information file is an XML file of .

The additional information analyzer is software or hardware which extracts necessary information from an additional information file as described above particularly XML parser software in this example. In this embodiment the additional information analyzer further includes the ID extractor . The ID extractor is software or hardware which extracts from an additional information file only information required in order to uniquely identify a video file associated with the additional information. For example in a case where the XML file of is an additional information file the ID extractor is software which extracts only information 060A2B340101010501010D4313000000AB935E77616505D10080458200000002 which is marked up using the tag GlobalClipID from information interpreted by the XML parser. As described in the first embodiment the tag GlobalClipID is information which is used to uniquely identify a video file where UMID etc. is a generation algorithm.

The ID information extracted by the ID extractor is output to the two dimensional code generator included in the marker image generator . Here it is obvious that the information amount of the ID information is considerably smaller than when the entire XML file is handled. For example when UMID is used as ID information the ID information has a binary value of at most 64 bytes and even when the ID information is converted into hexadecimal character information the hexadecimal character information has no more than 128 characters. shows the GlobalClipID which is represented by a QR code registered trademark with version 8 and error correction level H.

The video playback device performs operation similar to that of the first embodiment to generate a marker image from a two dimensional code shown in and outputs the marker image together with a video associated with the marker image through the video sender .

On the other hand the video playback device includes the external connection unit and therefore the additional information file stored in the recording medium can be referenced by the external terminal . Here the external terminal is specifically an electronic device such as a personal computer or a mobile telephone. The external connection unit is hardware for connecting the external terminal to the video playback device and software for controlling the hardware. Specific examples of the hardware include storage type connection terminals such as a Universal Serial Bus USB terminal or an external Serial ATA eSATA terminal and network type connection modules such as a wired local area network LAN a wireless LAN and Bluetooth registered trademark . Specific examples of the software which sends a file stored in the recording medium to the external terminal through the hardware include driver software which allows a USB terminal to recognize the recording medium as a USB mass storage device and Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP server software which allows a file in the recording medium to be downloaded through a network.

The external terminal copies the additional information file stored in the recording medium into a recording medium included in itself by the above connection technique or a similar technique. The external terminal also transfers to the external server the additional information file which has been copied to its own recording medium by the above technique. Here the external server is specifically a server which accepts uploaded data such as an e mail server or a web server on the Internet or an FTP server. For example in the case of an e mail server the external terminal may attach an additional information file to an e mail and sends the e mail to a predetermined mail address one of mail addresses provided by the external server .

By the above operation of the video playback device and the external terminal only ID information of additional information associated with a video can be output from SDI in the form of a marker image associated with the video and the entire additional information can be separately accumulated in the external server . Because the marker image contains only ID information a two dimensional code which is much more highly resistant to error than when the entire additional information is combined with a marker image.

Although similar to the video recording device of the additional information decoder included in the video recording device of decodes a two dimensional code contained in a video signal the two dimensional code contains only ID information in this embodiment.

Therefore the video recording device transfers the output of the additional information decoder to the additional information file searcher . The additional information file searcher is software or hardware which obtains based on the received ID information the entirety of additional information from the database server through the external connection unit included in the video recording device .

The database server is a server which includes database software which regularly communicates with the external server through the Internet and stores the content of an additional information file uploaded to the external server in a database where ID information contained in the additional information file is a key.

For example when the external server is an e mail server the database server regularly checks an e mail which has arrived at a predetermined mail address. When a file attached to the received e mail is interpreted and found to be an XML file corresponding to an additional information file this determination may be achieved for example by finding that the root tag is P2Main or that the tag GlobalClipID is contained the entire XML sentences contained in the additional information file are stored into a database such as Oracle registered trademark or DB2 registered trademark where the GlobalClipID is a main key. As a result when ID information is given to the database server the entirety of additional information associated with a video file indicated by the ID information can be retrieved.

The external connection unit is hardware for connecting the database server and the video recording device together and software for controlling the hardware. The hardware may be specifically a network type connection technology such as a wired LAN or a wireless LAN. The software which allows the additional information file searcher to receive the search result of the database server through the hardware may be specifically an HTTP client which gives ID information to an argument of the GET instruction of HTTP sends the GET instruction to the database server and obtains the result in HTML or XML a Structured Query Language SQL client which directly sends an SQL sentence via a particular TCP port e.g. TCP 3306 when the database software is MySQL registered trademark etc. and obtains the result etc.

By the above operation the additional information file searcher can obtain the entirety of additional information corresponding to a received ID information. When this additional information is output to the additional information storing unit included in the recording medium writer the recording medium writer writes an additional information file to the recording medium .

By the above operation although only ID information is combined with a video which the video playback device sends from the video sender an additional information file having the same content as that of the additional information file stored in the recording medium included in the video playback device can be recorded into the recording medium included in the video recording device .

In the foregoing description the first and second embodiments of the technology disclosed herein have been illustrated. The present disclosure is not limited to these embodiments. The present disclosure is applicable to the embodiments to which changes replacements additions deletions etc. have been made. Parts of the first and second embodiments may be combined to obtain other new embodiments.

In the first embodiment the video sender and the video receiver are connected together by a coaxial cable to exchange an SDI signal. This does not necessarily mean that the signal format is limited to an SDI signal or the communication path is limited to a coaxial cable. In a broad sense the present disclosure provides a solution to the problem with a transmission path through which only a video is transmitted. For example a video may be transmitted by amplitude modulation or frequency modulation or the signal path may include transmission employing a satellite.

In the first embodiment a two dimensional code containing additional information is first displayed followed by a video associated with the additional information. Alternatively for example the order may be reversed. It is obvious that if the same order in which a two dimensional code and a video are sent is applied to both the algorithm of the cut point detector in the video playback device and the algorithm of the file associating unit of the video recording device the advantages of the first embodiment can be obtained.

In the first embodiment the file associating unit is software or hardware which determines a file name and a path in the form which clearly indicate the association between a pair of a video file and an additional information file and stores these files into the recording medium according to the file name and the path. However a video file and an additional information file may not be necessarily paired. For example additional information may be embedded in a video file e.g. additional information is stored in an MXF metadata area . In this case the file associating unit may be software or hardware which determines a file name and a path for a video file and specifies a video file in which additional information is to be embedded.

In the second embodiment the additional information file is transmitted through the external terminal to the external server . In the second embodiment it is important that the additional information file is finally stored into the external server . Therefore for example the external connection unit may have an FTP client function etc. so that the additional information file is directly uploaded from the video playback device to the external server .

In the second embodiment for the sake of simplicity the additional information file searcher is assumed to perform operation of retrieving the entirety of additional information using ID information immediately after receiving the ID information from the additional information decoder but this is not necessary. Alternatively for example only ID information obtained by decoding performed by the additional information decoder may be stored as a temporary file in the recording medium . After the video recording device has completely recorded a video file the additional information file searcher may scan all temporary files search for additional information using ID information described in the temporary files and replace the contents of the files with the entire additional information.

In the second embodiment the additional information analyzer is assumed to select information for uniquely identifying a video file from the additional information file using the ID extractor . However in practical use a problem often does not occur even when information which cannot always uniquely identify a video file. For example ID information may be information corresponding to the start timecode of a video file in the case of the additional information of information 16 05 59 27 marked up by the tag StartTimecode .

As described above a timecode is time information which is specified in SMPTE M and M and is used for a video signal. As described in the standards the user is allowed to reset the value of the timecode to any arbitrary value at any arbitrary timing e.g. 00 00 00 00 and the timecode inevitably takes the same value again at 24 hour intervals without being explicitly reset by the user. The timecode does not contain information unique to a device used in shooting and therefore video files which happen to have the same start timecode may be generated by different video capture devices. Therefore to specify a start timecode does not mean to always uniquely identify a video file.

However video materials are often managed using a timecode because this has been the custom since the time video tape or optical film was used to capture videos. In practical use it is considered that substantially no problem arises even when the start timecode is used as ID information because 1 the timecode is almost never explicitly reset on location 2 if a captured video is managed on a daily basis the timecode does not take the same value again and 3 if there are only a small number of cameras it is considerably unusual to encounter conflicting start timecodes and therefore even if automatic addition of additional information fails due to conflicting start timecodes it does not take a lot of time and effort for the user to visually check the contents of videos. Therefore even if a device which records a video into the recording medium does not have the function of always generating unique ID information such as UMID etc. the information of the start timecode may be used as ID information. If in addition to the start timecode the serial number of a device used in shooting in the example of information marked up by the tag SerialNo. or the date and time of shooting in the example of information marked up by the tag StartDate is added into ID information confliction is less likely to occur.

The marker used in the present disclosure is not limited to the above two dimensional code and may be a barcode. Alternatively characters themselves which can be recognized by a human can be used as the marker because embedded information can be read out by image processing performed by a computer.

As described above embodiments of the technology disclosed herein have been illustrated. To do so the accompanying drawings and the detailed description have been provided.

Therefore the components described in the drawings and the detailed description may include not only components essential for achieving the present disclosure but also non essential components which are used to illustrate the above technology. Therefore the non essential components should not be immediately considered as being essential because those components are described in the drawings and the detailed description.

The above embodiments are for the purpose of illustration of the technology of the present disclosure and therefore various changes replacements additions deletions etc. can be made thereto within the scope of the claims or equivalents thereof.

In the video playback device and the video recording device of the present disclosure even when a video is transmitted using an existing video transmission path such as representatively SDI transmission additional information associated with a video file which is a source of the video is not lost. Additional information to a video can be used in order to pick up important portions from a long video during video editing or to retrieve a video of interest from archived videos the processing and reuse of a video can be dramatically facilitated.

