---

title: Node and method for service specific management
abstract: Example embodiments are presented herein service session management based on service specific data and a user subscription. Some example embodiments may comprise a user equipment, and corresponding method therein, for monitoring an internet or network access by an identified application. Upon detection, the user equipment may be configured to send service specific data associated with the identified application to an enhanced application server. The enhanced application server may manage a service session based on the service specific data and the user subscription. The management of the service session may allow for a differentiated delivery of service for certain applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09641348&OS=09641348&RS=09641348
owner: TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
number: 09641348
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20140729
---
In a typical cellular system also referred to as a wireless communications network wireless terminals also known as mobile stations and or user equipment units communicate via a Radio Access Network RAN to one or more core networks. The wireless terminals can be mobile stations or user equipment units such as mobile telephones also known as cellular telephones and laptops with wireless capability e.g. mobile termination and thus can be for example portable pocket hand held computer comprised or car mounted mobile devices which communicate voice and or data with radio access network.

The radio access network covers a geographical area which is divided into cell areas with each cell area being served by a base station e.g. a Radio Base Station RBS which in some networks is also called NodeB or B node and which in this document also is referred to as a base station. A cell is a geographical area where radio coverage is provided by the radio base station equipment at a base station site. Each cell is identified by an identity within the local radio area which is broadcast in the cell. The base stations communicate over the air interface operating on radio frequencies with the user equipment units within range of the base stations.

In some versions of the radio access network several base stations are typically connected e.g. by landlines or microwave to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The radio network controller also sometimes termed a Base Station Controller BSC supervises and coordinates various activities of the plural base stations connected thereto. The radio network controllers are typically connected to one or more core networks.

The Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS is a third generation mobile communication system which evolved from the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and is intended to provide improved mobile communication services based on Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA access technology. UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN is essentially a radio access network using wideband code division multiple access for user equipment units UEs . The Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP has undertaken to evolve further the UTRAN and GSM based radio access network technologies. Long Term Evolution LTE together with Evolved Packet Core EPC is the newest addition to the 3GPP family.

Policy and Charging Control PCC was originally introduced in 3GPP standards as a mean to secure resources in the access network mainly for dynamic services such as IMS but also to control resource consumption for regular Internet services P2P traffic web browsing FTP etc and to enable Flow Based Charging FBC .

Although the original goal with PCC has since long time been completed in 3GPP there is still a lot of activities ongoing in standards enhancing the PCC framework with add ons. The new functions amended to the PCC architecture have shifted the role of the PCRF from something that was originally just a requirement for IMS into a more fundamental system element.

A need exists for operators to be able to have the capabilities to reach agreements with service provides e.g. of OTT services in order to provide a different service delivery compared to competitors. Current systems do not provide an efficient way of differentiating services. Thus at least one object of some of the example embodiments provided herein is to provide such a system and method for service differentiation in an accurate and efficient manner. This type of service delivery may have the example advantage of providing a better quality of service with differentiated charging and quality of service requirements. Another example advantage is the ability to accurately monitor all outgoing and incoming traffic associated with an identified application. A further example advantage is that the example embodiments present a scalable method of service differentiation. Another example advantage is load reduction on gateway nodes as there is no longer a need to perform heuristic detection.

Thus some of the example embodiments may be directed towards a method in a user equipment for providing service specific data for service session management. The method comprises monitoring an identified application. The method also comprises detecting a start of the identified application where the identified application utilizes an internet or network during operation. The method further comprises sending service specific data associated with the identified application to an enhanced application server for service session management.

Some of the example embodiments may be directed towards a user equipment configured to provide service specific data for service session management. The user equipment comprises processing circuitry configured to monitor an identified application. The processing circuitry is further configured to detect a start of said identified application where the identified application utilizes an internet or network during operation. The user equipment further comprises radio circuitry configured to send service specific data associated with the identified application to an enhanced application server for service session management.

Some of the example embodiments may be directed towards a method in an enhanced application server for service session management of an identified application. The method comprises receiving from a user equipment service specific data associated with an identified application. The method also comprises managing a service session of the identified application based on the service specific data and a user subscription.

Some of the example embodiments may be directed towards an enhanced application server configured to provide service session management of an identified application. The enhanced application server comprises processing circuitry configured to receive from a user equipment service specific data associated with an identified application. The processing circuitry is further configured to manage a service session of the identified application based on the service specific data and a user subscription.

Some of the example embodiments may comprise a computer readable medium having instructions for causing a computer to execute a method comprising receiving from a user equipment service specific data associated with an identified application. The method also comprises managing a service session of the identified application based on the service specific data and a user subscription.

Some of the example embodiments may comprise a computer readable medium having instructions for causing a computer to execute a method comprising monitoring an identified application. The method also comprises detecting a start of said identified application the identified application utilizing an internet or network during operation. The method further comprises sending service specific data associated with the identified application to an enhanced application server for service session management.

In the following description for purposes of explanation and not limitation specific details are set forth such as particular components elements techniques etc. in order to provide a thorough understanding of the example embodiments. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that the example embodiments may be practiced in other manners that depart from these specific details. In other instances detailed descriptions of well known methods and elements are omitted so as not to obscure the description of the example embodiments. The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing the example embodiments and is not intended to limit the embodiments presented herein.

In order to provide a better explanation of the example embodiments presented herein a problem will first be identified and discussed. provides an example of a communication network . As shown in a user equipment UE may be in communication with a Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN an Evolved UTRAN E UTRAN or a GSM Edge Radio Access Network GERAN subsystem in order to access communication to an operator or application server . In gaining access to the operator or application server the UTRAN E UTRAN GERAN subsystem may be in communication with a General Packet Radio Service GPRS subsystem or an Evolved Packet Core EPC subsystem . It should also be appreciated that the network may further comprise a WiFi subsystem although not illustrated in .

The GPRS subsystem may comprise a Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN which may be responsible for the delivery of data packets to and from the mobile stations within an associated geographical service area. The SGSN may also be responsible for packet routing transfer and mobility management. The GPRS subsystem may also include a Gateway GPRS Support Node which may be responsible for the interworking between the GPRS subsystem and the operator or application server .

The EPC subsystem may comprise a Mobility Management Entity which may be responsible for idle mode UE tracking paging procedures and attachment and activation processes. The EPC subsystem may also comprise a Serving Gateway SGW which may be responsible for the routing and forwarding for data packets. The EPC subsystem may also include a Packet data network Gateway PGW which may be responsible for providing connectivity from the user equipment to the operator of application servers . Both the SGSN and the MME may be in communication with a Home Subscriber Server HSS which may provide device identification information an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI etc. It should be appreciated that the EPC subsystem may also comprise a S4 SGSN thereby allowing the GERAN or UTRAN subsystems to be accessed when the GPRS is replaced by the EPC .

The network may further comprise a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF which may be in communication with the GGSN the PGW and the application server . The PCRF encompasses policy control decision and flow based charging control functionalities.

Often operators have an interest in being able to have the capabilities of reaching agreements with service providers in order to provide a different service delivery compared to competitors. Examples of such service providers may be providers of services which require network or internet access. Such a provide may be an Over The Top OTT service provider. An OTT service is a service which does not belong or is not under the control of the operator. Examples of such services may be Youtube or Skype .

In providing a differentiated delivery of service traffic associated with the service should be identified. One current method of such traffic identification is utilizing a different APN per application that requires a special service delivery. There are several problems with this approach. First a terminal must be configured to use a different APN per application. This is not feasible if different QoS or charging requirements are to be applied to different subscribers. Furthermore the use of multiple APNs requires multiple PDN connections and therefore multiple IPs. Thus such a solution is not scalable.

Another example of a current traffic identification technique is the use of an Rx interface from the application server to the operator PCRF. The main drawback to this solution is that this implies that all application servers should be connected with all the PCRFs of all operators they have an agreement with. It should be noted that there may be hundreds of application servers for a single application. This solution is extremely costly to deploy.

Another example of a current traffic identification technique is the use of deep packet inspection. In many cases the traffic needs to be identified through heuristics as the protocol is not public. This is by definition not accurate and therefore not very suitable if there is a commercial agreement. On the other hand the service might change clients and protocol quite often making the detection useless until a new signature has been delivered.

Thus example embodiments are presented herein which enhance the communication between a user equipment and the network for identified applications. Such identification of the applications may be provided in an efficient and accurate manner. According to some of the example embodiments traffic associated with an application identified to receive a differentiated service may be identified through the use of an entity or application referred to herein as an enhanced application which may reside on the user equipment. The enhanced application may monitor when the identified application initiates a communication on the network. Once the initiation occurs the enhanced application may send information regarding the session to a server or node in the network. The server or node which receives such information will be referred to herein as an enhanced application server. The transmitted information may be used for enhanced traffic detection according to some of the example embodiments. Once the traffic has been identified on the core network it may be treated in a differentiated way. It should be appreciated that the enhanced application server may comprise the same functionality as the application server of and therefore has been assigned the same reference numeral.

According to some of the example embodiments the user equipment may first send an IP CAN session establishment message to a gateway node line 1 . It should be appreciated that the term gateway node may comprise a PGW SGW SGSN GGSN etc. The gateway node may thereafter send a Gx CCR INITIAL REQUEST message to the PCRF featuring the example information elements listed in line 2 . The PCRF may thereafter select a profile for the user and decide which services or programs should be monitored or the identity of the enhanced application line 3 . The PCRF may thereafter send a Gx CCA message to the gateway node featuring the identity of services or programs which are to be monitored and or the identity of the enhanced application line 4 . It should be appreciated that provides that such programs are OTT programs however the example embodiments may be applied to any program or service which utilizes the internet or network. Thereafter the gateway node may send a session response message to the user equipment line 5 .

Once a start of the enhanced application is detected line 6 the user equipment may send an application or authentication request to the gateway node line 7 . The gateway node may insert identifying information in the request line 8 . The gateway node may further forward the request to the application server line 9 . The application server may authenticate the request and or the authenticity of the enhanced application line 10 and send results of the authentication to the gateway node line 11 . The gateway node may insert the services or applications to be monitored based on ADC rules which may be downloaded line 12 . The gateway node may thereafter send an application or authentication response to the user equipment line 13 .

Thereafter the enhanced application may begin to monitor the services or applications which have been identified by the gateway PCRF and or application server line 14 . The user equipment and or enhanced application will thereafter detect once the identified service or application starts or makes an internet or network access line 15 16 . The user equipment and or enhanced application will thereafter send an application request message to the gateway node indicating that the identified or monitored service application has started lined 17 . According to some of the example embodiments the request may comprise information elements such as various identifiers and a 5 tuple as shown in . It should be appreciated that any other information element may also be comprised in the response.

The gateway node may then map the service or application with predefined ADC rules line 18 and create filters for the corresponding predefined ADC rule out of the received 5 tuple line 19 . Thus filters for detecting the traffic associated with the identified application service may be provided. By using the 5 tuple information the traffic may be more accurately detected. It should be appreciated that the use of the 5 tuple information is provided as an example. Any other form of identifying information may be utilized to provide more accurate traffic detection filters.

Upon the creation of the filters the gateway node may send an application request to the application server line 20 . The user equipment may also start sending payload information to the gateway node line 21 . With the use of the newly established filters the gateway node may start to filter and identify the traffic associated with the identified application line 22 . The gateway node may thereafter send a report to the PCRF on such detection line 23 . Thereafter the PCRF may select appropriate QoS and charging parameters for the user and identified service or application line 24 . The PCRF may thereafter send the selected parameters to the gateway node line 25 which will enforce such parameters line 26 thus providing the differentiated service for the traffic associated with the identified application.

Thereafter the user equipment or enhanced application may monitor and detect an internet or network access attempt by the identified application in a similar manner as was performed in lines 14 16 . Once a detection has been made the user equipment or enhanced application may send a notification to the application server line 17 . The notification may comprise various information elements providing information to assist in enhanced traffic detection. It should be appreciated that the information elements in are provided merely for the purpose of explanation. Any other information element may also be utilized.

The application server may inform the PCRF of the detection by sending a request message which may feature the provided information elements lines 18 19 . The PCRF may send an acknowledge message to the application server and select appropriate QoS and charging parameters for the detected and identified application or service lines 20 21 . The PCRF may thereafter send a request with dynamic PCC rules to the gateway node and the gateway node may thereafter send an acknowledgement lines 22 23 . The gateway node may thereafter install the PCC and selected QoS and charging policies thereby providing differentiated service for the identified application or service.

The example embodiments of and illustrate an application server which is a separate network entity. It should be appreciated that the functionality of the application server may also be included in the gateway node the PCRF or any other network node.

The user equipment may also comprise a processing unit or circuitry which may be configured to monitor an identified application and detect a usage of the identified application. The processing circuitry may be any suitable type of computation unit e.g. a microprocessor digital signal processor DSP field programmable gate array FPGA or application specific integrated circuit ASIC or any other form of circuitry. The user equipment may further comprise a memory unit or circuitry which may be any suitable type of computer readable memory and may be of volatile and or non volatile type. The memory may be configured to store received transmitted and or measured data device parameters communication priorities and or executable program instructions.

It should further be appreciated that the user equipment may comprise an enhanced application that may be configured to execute any of the example embodiments presented herein. It should further be appreciated that the enhanced application may be configured to run on any form of circuitry or computer readable medium.

The application server may comprise radio circuitry or a communication port that may be configured to receive and or transmit communication data instructions and or messages. It should be appreciated that the radio circuitry or communication port may be comprised as any number of transceiving receiving and or transmitting units or circuitry. It should further be appreciated that the radio circuitry or communication may be in the form of any input output communications port known in the art. The radio circuitry or communication may comprise RF circuitry and baseband processing circuitry not shown .

The application server may also comprise processing circuitry which may be configured to receive any form of data and manage a service session based on service specific data and a user subscription. The processing circuitry may be any suitable type of computation unit e.g. a microprocessor digital signal processor DSP field programmable gate array FPGA or application specific integrated circuit ASIC or any other form of circuitry. The application server may further comprise a memory unit or circuitry which may be any suitable type of computer readable memory and may be of volatile and or non volatile type. The memory may be configured to store received transmitted and or measured data device parameters communication priorities and or executable program instructions. It should be appreciated that the application server may comprise a computer readable medium configured to execute any of the example embodiments presented herein.

According to some of the example embodiments the user equipment may be configured to validate an authenticity of an application which may be identified for monitoring. The processing circuitry may be configured to validate the authenticity of the application which may be identified for monitoring. It should be appreciated that according to some of the example embodiments the validating may be performed with the use of a hash algorithm.

It should be appreciated that any other form of validation known in the art e.g. password licensing information running executable code may also be utilized. It should also be appreciated that the identity of the application whose authenticity is to be validated may be provided by the enhanced application server or any other network entity. It should also be appreciated that the validation may be provided as a result of a user or application initiated request. It should also be appreciated that the user equipment may be further configured to send results of the validation to the enhanced application server. The radio circuitry may be configured to send the results of the validation to the enhanced application server. Such sending is further described in in relation to example operation .

According to some of the example embodiments the user equipment may be configured to receive from an enhanced application server a monitoring request. The monitoring request may comprise the identity of at least one application to be monitored. The radio circuitry may be configured to receive from the enhanced application server the monitoring request. This example operation will be further described in relation to example operation of .

The user equipment is configured to monitor the identified application. The processing circuitry is configured to monitor the identified application. According to some of the example embodiments the identified application may be a non operator provided or controlled application. According to some of the example embodiments the identified application may be an OTT application.

According to some of the example embodiments the monitoring may be performed with the use of an enhanced application which may reside within the user equipment . According to some of the example embodiments the enhanced application may be comprised in the user equipment as part of an initial configuration. According to some of the example embodiments the enhanced application may be downloadable. According to some of the example embodiments the enhanced application may be configured as part of the identified application. According to some of the example embodiments the enhanced application may be updated whenever a vender of an application wants to participate in receiving the differentiated service. According to some of the example embodiments the enhanced application may be comprised in the API OS and or OTA.

The user equipment may be configured to evaluate an authenticity of the enhanced application. The processing circuitry may be configured to evaluate the authenticity of the enhanced application. According to some of the example embodiments the evaluation may be provided with the use of licensing and or password information. It should be appreciated that any form of authenticity evaluation known in the art may be utilized. According to some of the example embodiments the user equipment may be further configured to send results of the authenticity to the enhanced application server. The radio circuitry may be configured to send the results.

The user equipment is further configured to detect an internet of network access from the identified application. The processing circuitry is configured to detect an internet of network access from the identified application.

According to some of the example embodiments the detecting may be performed with the use of an enhanced application which may reside within the user equipment . According to some of the example embodiments the enhanced application may be comprised in the user equipment as part of an initial configuration. According to some of the example embodiments the enhanced application may be downloadable. According to some of the example embodiments the enhanced application may be configured as part of the identified application. According to some of the example embodiments the enhanced application may be updated whenever a vender of an application wants to participate in receiving the differentiated service. According to some of the example embodiments the enhanced application may be comprised in the API OS and or in FW below the OS.

The user equipment is also configured to send service specific data associated with the identified application to the enhanced application server for service session management. The radio circuitry is configured to send the service specific data associated with the identified application to the enhanced application server for service session management.

According to some of the example embodiments the service specific data comprises data utilized for application traffic detection. According to some of the example embodiments the service specific data comprises 5 tuple information associated with the identified application. According to some of the example embodiments the service specific data comprises a type of service or application of the identified application.

According to some of the example embodiments the sending may further comprise sending to the enhanced application server a user initiated quality of service request. The radio circuitry may be configured to send to the enhanced application server the user initiated quality of service request. According to some of the example embodiments during the operation of the identified application a user may be presented with an option to receive an increased quality of service for example for an additional cost. If the use chooses such an option the request may be sent directly to the enhanced application server for processing.

According to some of the example embodiments the user equipment may be configured to receive from the enhanced application server an upgrade or downgrade of a quality of service during an operation of the identified application based on the service specific data and or a user subscription. This example operation will be further described in relation to example operation of .

According to some of the example embodiments the enhanced application server may be configured to receive to the user equipment an authentication result. The authentication result may confirm an identity of a user equipment and or enhanced application which is configured to receive a differentiated service. The processing circuitry may be configured to receive the authentication result. The authentication result provided by the user equipment and or enhanced application is further described in in relation to example operation .

According to some of the example embodiments the enhanced application server may be configured to authenticate the authentication result to verify the identified application is a correctly identified application. The processing circuitry may be configured to authenticate the authentication result. According to some of the example embodiments the authentication may comprise utilizing deep packet inspection and or heuristics. It should be appreciated according to some of the example embodiments the authentication may be performed by the GGSN SGSN or PGW when instructed to do so by the enhanced application server.

According to some of the example embodiments the enhanced application server may be further configured to send to the user equipment a monitoring request. The monitoring request may comprise instructions to monitor the identified application. The monitoring request may also comprise identity information regarding the identified application. The processing circuitry may be configured to send to the user equipment the monitoring request.

According to some of the example embodiments the sending may performed upon detecting a change in a user subscription. According to some of the example embodiments the sending may also be performed during a predetermined time period. For example the enhanced application server may be configured to send a new monitoring request once a month. According to some of the example embodiments the sending may also be performed upon receiving an activation request for the user equipment. For example the user equipment itself may request the differentiated service. In such an event the user equipment may send an activation request. The monitoring request is further described in in relation to example operation .

The enhanced application server is configured to receive from the user equipment service specific data associated with an identified application. The processing circuitry is configured to receive from the user equipment the service specific data associated with the identified application.

According to some of the example embodiments the service specific data comprises data utilized for application traffic detection. According to some of the example embodiments the service specific data comprises 5 tuple information. According to some of the example embodiments the service specific data comprises a type of service of application of the identified application. According to some of the example embodiments the service specific data comprises a user initiated quality of service request.

The enhanced application server is further configured to manage a service session of the identified application based on the service specific data and a user subscription. The processing circuitry is configured to manage the service session of the identified application based on the service specific data and the user subscription.

According to some of the example embodiments the user subscription comprises predefined rules for an allowed quality of service based on use conditions. According to some of the example embodiments the use conditions may be related to a time date length and or location of a use of the identified application. Such predefined rules may be configured within the enhanced application server or may be retrieved from any other node in the network for example the PCRF.

According to some of the example embodiments the managing may further comprise sending instructions to a network node to upgrade or downgrade a quality of service of an operation of the identified application based on the service specific data and the user subscription. The processing circuitry may be configured to send to the network node the instructions to upgrade or downgrade the quality of service of an operation of the identified application based on the service specific data and the user subscription. This operation is also described in relation to example operation of . Examples of a network node according to example operation may be a gateway node e.g. PGW SGW SGSN. GGSN or the PCRF.

According to some of the example embodiments the managing may further comprise sending to a network node instructions to alter a charging for data packets belonging to the identified application. The processing circuitry may be configured to send to the network node instructions to alter a charging for data packets belonging to the identified application. Examples of a network node according to example operation may be e.g. PGW SGW SGSN GGSN or the PCRF.

According to some of the example embodiments the managing may further comprising sending to a gateway node instructions for enhanced traffic detection for traffic associated with the identified application based on the service specific data. The processing circuitry may be configured to send to the gateway node instructions for enhanced traffic detection for traffic associated with the identified application based on the service specific data.

According to some of the example embodiments the instructions for enhanced traffic detection may further comprise instructions for establishing a traffic filter based on the service specific data. According to some of the example embodiments the instructions for enhanced traffic detection may further comprise instructions for providing deep packet inspection for data packets associated with the identified application. According to some of the example embodiments the instructions for enhanced traffic detection may further comprise instructions for extracting a 5 tuple associated with the identified application via the deep packet inspection.

It should be noted that although terminology from 3GPP LTE has been used herein to explain the example embodiments this should not be seen as limiting the scope of the example embodiments to only the aforementioned system. Other wireless systems including WCDMA WiMax UMB WiFi and GSM may also benefit from the example embodiments disclosed herein.

The description of the example embodiments provided herein have been presented for purposes of illustration. The description is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit example embodiments to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of various alternatives to the provided embodiments. The examples discussed herein were chosen and described in order to explain the principles and the nature of various example embodiments and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the example embodiments in various manners and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. The features of the embodiments described herein may be combined in all possible combinations of methods apparatus modules systems and computer program products. It should be appreciated that the example embodiments presented herein may be practiced in any combination with each other.

It should be noted that the word comprising does not necessarily exclude the presence of other elements or steps than those listed and the words a or an preceding an element do not exclude the presence of a plurality of such elements. It should further be noted that any reference signs do not limit the scope of the claims that the example embodiments may be implemented at least in part by means of both hardware and software and that several means units or devices may be represented by the same item of hardware.

Also note that terminology such as user equipment should be considered as non limiting. A device or user equipment as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include a radiotelephone having ability for Internet intranet access web browser organizer calendar a camera e.g. video and or still image camera a sound recorder e.g. a microphone and or global positioning system GPS receiver a personal communications system PCS user equipment that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing a personal digital assistant PDA that can include a radiotelephone or wireless communication system a laptop a camera e.g. video and or still image camera having communication ability and any other computation or communication device capable of transceiving such as a personal computer a home entertainment system a television etc. It should be appreciated that the term user equipment may also comprise any number of connected devices.

The various example embodiments described herein are described in the general context of method steps or processes which may be implemented in one aspect by a computer program product embodied in a computer readable medium including computer executable instructions such as program code executed by computers in networked environments. A computer readable medium may include removable and non removable storage devices including but not limited to Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM compact discs CDs digital versatile discs DVD etc. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of program code for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps or processes.

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed exemplary embodiments. However many variations and modifications can be made to these embodiments. Accordingly although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the embodiments being defined by the following claims.

