---

title: Selecting storage cloud for storage of entity files from plurality of storage clouds
abstract: A technique to enable the user of storage clouds to use of a plurality of storage clouds without the user of storage clouds being aware of which data is being entrusted to which storage cloud and without sacrificing safety or ease-of-use by selecting at least one storage cloud to store an entity file storable in a cloud-utilizing terminal from among a plurality of storage clouds connected via a network to the cloud-utilizing terminal. This technique includes referencing the attributes or context of an entity file, or the attributes of a virtual folder and each attribute of a plurality of storage clouds, in response to the creation or update of the entity file in the virtual folder in the cloud-utilizing terminal, and selecting at least one storage cloud from among a plurality of storage clouds for storing the entity file so as to satisfy predefined rules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09396209&OS=09396209&RS=09396209
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09396209
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140916
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 926 244 filed on Jun. 25 2013 which claims the benefit of priority to Japanese Application No. 2012 144209 filed on Jun. 27 2012 and entitled Method for Selecting Storage Cloud for Storage of Entity Files from Plurality of Storage Clouds and Computer and Computer Program Therefor the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to a technique for selecting a storage cloud from among a plurality of storage clouds. More specifically the present invention relates to a technique for selecting at least one storage cloud from among a plurality of storage clouds connected to a cloud utilizing terminal via a network in order to store entity files which can be stored in the cloud utilizing terminal.

Cloud computing has continued to spread and various types of storage clouds have been provided. However these storage clouds vary depending on the characteristics of each service. Therefore a certain degree of knowledge is required to utilize these storage clouds according to the proper purpose or use.

Methods for synchronizing specific folders in a cloud utilizing terminal with storage clouds have become popular. However it is left to the user to entrust data in the cloud utilizing terminal to a given storage cloud. For example when folders have to be distributed and stored in each storage cloud the user always has to be aware of which data is being entrusted to which service with a storage cloud.

The storage as the location for storing the data and the views folder views for displaying the data should be independent. However the storage and views are not independent in conventional methods. As a result the user sacrifices storage cloud convenience and folder ease of use.

Patent Literature 1 describes a server device including a storage information recording means for recording fee information used for online storage of a plurality of online storage data files serving as candidates for a storage location a file inputting means for inputting data files a frequency of use inputting means for inputting the expected frequency of use with respect to a data file inputted by the file inputting means a calculating means for calculating the comparison value for each online storage data file serving as a candidate for a storage location based on the expected frequency of use and the fee information and a determining means for determining the online storage data files for each storage location based on the comparison value of each online storage data file calculated by the calculating means claim .

Patent Literature 2 describes a file management device for automatic log in to a plurality of online storage services in which the device has a user interface viewing and receiving operational input of files in online storage in the same manner as files present locally and in which file operations of the user received by the user interface are reflected in the files in online storage using file operation information claim .

Patent Literature 3 describes an optimum placement method for files in which the client has a fuzzy membership function numerically quantifying and representing the processing request level of a user and the usage condition status of a server attribute data such as a processing request and file size is added to a file file placement rules determining the validity of a file assignment to a server are added based on the processing request and server usage status and the client references the fuzzy membership function based on the attribute data of the file selects the optimum file placement rules and selects the optimum placement of the file according to the selected file placement rules claim .

Patent Literature 4 describes a file server system in which a load information monitoring means is provided in each of a plurality of file servers to measure the load status of each of the plurality of file servers claim in which the load information monitoring means includes means for counting the number of unprocessed file access requests in each of the plurality of file servers claim in which a file access request allocating means includes a file dividing and allocating means for referencing the load status measured by the load information monitoring means and selecting a file server to store a file when writing a file claim and in which the file dividing and allocating means is provided with a file dividing and allocating means for selecting at least two file servers for storing files to be written claim .

Patent Literature 5 describes an electronic filing device including a classification keyword adding means for adding a classification and a search keyword indicating the content of the classification to a recorded document a document storing means for storing the document in accordance with the classification and search keyword added by the adding means a classification selecting means for selecting the classification for a plurality of hierarchical levels in a document classification directory from among the classifications stored in the document storage means an individual document management information storing means for storing the classifications for each hierarchical level of a document classification directory selected by the selecting means for storage as individual document storage information for each user a document retrieval means for retrieving documents with the same search keyword from the document storage means based on the classifications of each hierarchical level in the individual document storage information stored by the storing means and a link information storage means for storing along with the classifications of each hierarchical level of the document classification direction link information for each document with the same search keyword retrieved by the retrieval means claim .

Patent Literature 6 describes a method allowing a computer connected communicably to a policy server to determine the confidentiality level of document information claim .

Patent Literature 7 describes a method allowing a computer to determine the priority of processing for classifying a plurality of documents claim .

Patent Literature 8 describes a file management device including an attribute content managing means for managing the attributes and content of a file required for filing and a filing model and a registration request reference file claim .

Patent Literature 9 describes a virtual file management system for managing files in a plurality of servers using virtual file identifiers which has a management table storing a pair consisting of the server name housing the actual data and the actual file identifier in the server for each virtual file identifier claim .

A purpose of the present invention is to enable the user of storage clouds to use of a plurality of storage clouds without the user of storage clouds being aware of which data is being entrusted to which storage cloud and without sacrificing safety or ease of use.

Another purpose of the present invention is to enable automatic re selection of the appropriate storage cloud. Still another purpose of the present invention is to enable reliable compliance with company policy by automatically re selecting the appropriate storage cloud.

Another purpose of the present invention is to provide a transparent view of a plurality of storage cloud services. Yet another purpose of the present invention is to be able to provide different folder views based on rules which limit use or placeable file types or impose expiration dates on browsing.

The present invention provides a technique for selecting at least one storage cloud to store an entity file storable in a cloud utilizing terminal from among a plurality of storage clouds connected via a network to the cloud utilizing terminal. The present invention also provides a technique for managing an entity file storage in a storage cloud using virtual folders. Both of these techniques include methods computers especially cloud utilizing terminals computer programs and computer program products.

The present invention is a method for selecting at least one storage cloud to store an entity file storable in a cloud utilizing terminal from among a plurality of storage clouds connected via a network to the cloud utilizing terminal. The cloud utilizing terminal has a virtual folder able to display links associated with entity files stored in each storage cloud. The cloud utilizing terminal executes a step of referencing the attributes or context of a first entity file or the attributes of a first virtual folder and each attribute of a plurality of storage clouds in response to the creation or update of the first entity file in the first virtual folder in the cloud utilizing terminal and selecting at least one storage cloud from among a plurality of storage clouds for storing the first entity file so as to satisfy predefined rules. Here the first entity file in the cloud utilizing terminal is uploaded to the storage cloud selected by the cloud utilizing terminal referred to below as the first storage cloud and a link to the uploaded first entity file is displayed in the first virtual folder.

The present invention is also a method for managing using a virtual folder an entity file able to be stored in a storage cloud. A cloud utilizing terminal connectable to a storage cloud via a network is able to display a link associated with an entity file stored in each storage cloud and the cloud utilizing terminal executes the steps of referencing the attributes or context of a first entity file or the attributes of a first virtual folder and each attribute of a plurality of storage clouds in response to the creation or update of the first entity file in the first virtual folder in the cloud utilizing terminal and selecting at least one storage cloud from among a plurality of storage clouds for storing the first entity file so as to satisfy predefined rules uploading the first entity file in the cloud utilizing terminal to the storage cloud selected by the cloud utilizing terminal referred to below as the first storage cloud and creating a first link to the uploaded first entity file and displaying the created first link in the first virtual folder. The first entity file is then deleted from the first virtual folder.

Also the present invention provides a computer program and computer program product able to execute each step of the method in a cloud utilizing terminal.

The present invention also provides a cloud utilizing terminal connectable to a plurality of storage clouds via a network. The cloud utilizing terminal includes virtual folder generating means for generating a virtual folder able to display links associated with the entity files stored in each storage cloud selecting means for referencing the attributes or context of a first entity file or the attributes of a first virtual folder and each attribute of a plurality of storage clouds in response to the creation or update of the first entity file in the first virtual folder in the cloud utilizing terminal and selecting at least one storage cloud from among a plurality of storage clouds for storing the first entity file so as to satisfy predefined rules uploading means for uploading the first entity file in the cloud utilizing terminal to the selected storage cloud and displaying means for displaying in the first virtual folder the link to the first entity file uploaded to the selected storage cloud.

Also the scope of the present invention includes not only the computer program but the recording medium on which the computer program is recorded. A computer program for executing the functions of the present invention can be stored on any computer readable recording medium including a flexible disk MO CD ROM DVD BD hard disk device USB memory ROM MRAM or RAM. The computer program can also be downloaded from another data processing system connected to a communication network for storage on a recording medium or can be copied from another recording medium. The program can also be compressed divided into a plurality of programs and recorded on one or more recording media. A computer program product embodying the present invention can take a variety of forms. The computer program product can include for example the recording medium on which the computer program is stored or a transmission medium over which the computer program is transmitted.

The summary of the present invention provided above is not intended to enumerate all of the required features of the present invention and it is to be understood that the present invention includes all combinations and sub combinations of these constituent elements.

It should also be clear that a person of skill in the art could conceive of various changes such as combining a plurality of machines and allocating functions to these machines to embody the hardware configurational elements of the information processing device used in the embodiment of the present invention. These changes are encompassed within the concept of the present invention. However these configurational elements are for illustrative purposes only and all of the configurational elements are not essential configurational elements of the present invention.

Also the present invention can be realized by hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. When the present invention is executed by a combination of hardware and software it is typically executed by a device in which the computer program has been installed. Here the computer program is downloaded to the memory of the device and executed. The computer program then controls the device and executes the processing of the present invention. This computer program can be configured from groups of instructions expressed in any language code or notation. The device can execute the specific functions in the group of instructions immediately or after 1 converting the group of instructions into another language code or notation and or 2 copying the group of instructions to another medium.

By providing a function for storing or distributing entity files to storage clouds so as to satisfy predefined rules and by providing an integrated folder view for displaying entity files distributed to a plurality of storage clouds in virtual folders according to an embodiment of the present invention a plurality of storage clouds can be utilized without the user of cloud storage being aware and without sacrificing safety or ease of use.

By re evaluating entity files for example based on any changes to the content so as to satisfy predefined rules according to an embodiment of the present invention the appropriate storage cloud can be automatically re selected. Also by automatically re selecting storage clouds compliance with company policy can be as stringent as possible.

A view of virtual folders referred to below as the virtual folder view can be provided transparently according to an embodiment of the present invention.

The following is an explanation of embodiments of the present invention with reference to the drawings. In all of the drawings identical objects are denoted by the same reference numbers unless otherwise indicated. The embodiments of the present invention are used to explain the best mode of carrying out the present invention and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention in any way.

Programs such as the operating system a Java registered trademark processing environment such as J2EE Java registered trademark applications Java registered trademark virtual machines VM and Java registered trademark just in time JIT compilers as well as other programs and data are stored on the disk for loading into the main memory .

The communication interface can use for example an Ethernet registered trademark protocol. The communication interface is connected to a bus via a communication controller and functions to physically connect the computer to the communication network . This provides a network interface layer for the TCP IP communication protocol in the communication function of the operating system of the computer . The communication line can be based on a wired LAN environment or based on a wireless LAN environment for example a Wi Fi standard such as IEEE802.11a b g n.

There are no particular restrictions on the cloud utilizing terminal as long as the terminal is able to access a storage cloud via a network. Examples of cloud utilizing terminals include personal computers portable information terminals such as tablet PCs tablet terminals e book readers and handheld computers mobile telephones such as smartphones gaming devices mobile music devices digital cameras video recorders television recording devices televisions and car navigation systems.

Cloud refers to cloud computing or cloud services. The storage clouds that can be used in the embodiments of the present invention are one aspect of the cloud. It is not determined merely by the name storage cloud . Any other name could be used as long as it provides a service related to the storage of entity files. Also the storage clouds that can be used in the embodiments of the present invention may provide any service other than those related to the storage of entity files. Clouds include public clouds deployed on the internet and provided to general users private clouds constructed by a company for its own use for example inside a firewall hybrid clouds combining a public cloud with a private cloud community clouds used jointly by particular groups or groups of companies virtual private clouds that can divide a public cloud virtually into user areas for use as private clouds and multi clouds which is a use specific cloud constructed across a plurality of cloud services. Storage clouds that can be used in embodiments of the present invention are similar. Herein the term entity file is used to distinguish it from the term link but has the same meaning as file.

The virtual folder managing means may have a virtual folder generating means and a virtual folder displaying means .

A virtual folder is a folder that may display links associated with entity files stored in each storage cloud. Therefore the files stored in the virtual folder are in principle links to entity files stored in specific storage clouds satisfying predefined rules or in synchronizing folders associated with these storage clouds. Therefore a virtual folder may display icons to these links inside the virtual folder.

Also virtual folders may store entity files under certain conditions. For example entity files are stored in a virtual folder in response to the entity file being generated in that virtual folder. For example entity files are stored in a virtual folder in response to the entity file being moved or copied to the virtual folder. The virtual folder may display an icon to an entity file in the virtual folder in response to the entity file being stored in the virtual folder.

An entity file stored in a virtual folder may be deleted from the virtual folder in response to a link associated with the entity file being created in the virtual folder. A link associated with an entity file may be created based on the entity file being copied or moved to a synchronizing folder or stored in a storage cloud. The link can be created using any method common in the art such as a symbolic link. A symbolic link is a mechanism in which a different name is given to a file and the user or application manipulates the entity file with this name that is the file itself in the same way. An icon indicating an entity file and an icon indicating a link associated with the entity file can have the same design or can have different designs so that they can be differentiated. When an icon indicating a link is the same as an icon indicating an entity file the user cannot differentiate between an entity file and a link based on the icon. However there are no problems if the manipulation of an icon indicating a link and an icon indicating an entity file similarly result in the manipulation of the entity file. The icon indicating a link may have the same design as a short cut used in Windows or an alias used in MacOS .

A single virtual folder may include display of one or more entity files distributed in each storage cloud as links associated with one or more entity files transparently integrated into the single virtual folder.

A virtual folder may be created using any method common in the art such as a shell extension plugin. In the method for creating a symbolic link using a shell extension plugin the user right clicks on a folder to display a menu and create a virtual folder is selected in the menu. The user may also create a virtual folder for example by selecting create virtual folder from a menu bar. The icon for a virtual folder may have a different design from an icon for a normal folder.

Virtual folders with different functions may be provided depending upon whether there are limits on the use and format of files stored in the virtual folder whether there is an expiration date for the virtual folder or whether the virtual folder requires a password. For example a warning can be displayed indicating that files with specific labels are to be placed in a virtual folder. When there is an expiration date for the virtual folder the entity files can be deleted on the cloud utilizing terminal but maintained in the storage cloud containing the entity files. Also a virtual folder can require a password to prevent unauthorized access.

The virtual folder generating means generates virtual folders in accordance with instructions from the user. The user may create a virtual folder at any location. These include folders in a specific directory such as on the desktop or in the my documents folder or in a folder specified by the user or administrator. The administrator may manage the system so that the places in which virtual folders can be generated are restricted to specific locations.

The virtual folder displaying means displays the created virtual folder on the display device . Also the virtual folder displaying means displays links associated with entity files stored in each storage cloud. In addition the virtual folder displaying means may temporarily display an entity file icon until the link appears. The icon indicating a link and the icon indicating an entity file can be the same or different. If they are the same the user cannot tell whether the icon is for a link or an entity file. In other words the user does not have to know whether the icon represents a link or an entity file.

The file classifying engine extracts attributes using text analysis or natural language processing of the content or context of entity files in a synchronizing folder. Also the file classifying engine can acquire the context by referencing an external source for example the location of the cloud utilizing terminal or the access frequency of the cloud utilizing terminal instead of the entity file itself for example revision frequency .

The synchronizing folder is where entity files associated to links in the virtual folder are located. The entity files in the synchronizing folder may be synchronized with storage clouds corresponding to the synchronizing folder. In other words the revised content in an entity file in the synchronizing folder may be reflected in the entity file corresponding to the storage clouds of the synchronizing folder. Synchronization may include the addition and deletion of entity files. When the storage clouds are cache less the synchronizing folder is non persistent and may be deleted from the cloud utilizing terminal immediately after synchronization or after a predetermined period of time has elapsed. When the storage clouds are cache less links to the URL of a storage cloud a specific URL may be used instead of a synchronizing folder. Here the entity file may be uploaded to the link destination from the cloud utilizing terminal using for example the shell expansion function.

The entity file manipulating monitoring means may include an uploading means a security level managing means and a selecting means . The entity file manipulating monitoring means can be divided into an entity file manipulating means and an entity file monitoring means but the entity file manipulating means and the entity file monitoring means do not have to be strictly separated. The uploading means uploads an entity file in the synchronizing folder to a storage cloud corresponding to the synchronizing folder. The uploading means can be strictly separated from the entity file manipulating monitoring means or the entity file manipulating monitoring means may include the functions of the uploading means . The security level managing means manages the entity files from the standpoint of security. The security level managing means can be strictly separated from the entity file manipulating monitoring means or the entity file manipulating monitoring means may include the functions of the security level managing means . The selecting means references the content context or combination of these in the files the attribute values and the attributes of each storage cloud referred to as cloud attribute data obtained from the storage cloud querying means or the characteristic survey engine selects the storage cloud that satisfies predefined rules and identifies the synchronizing folder or virtual folder when a synchronizing folder is not used associated with the selected storage cloud. The selecting means can be strictly separated from the entity file manipulating monitoring means or the entity file manipulating monitoring means may include the functions of the selecting means .

The cloud utilizing terminal may store the predefined rules and the various attributes in the storage means . Also the cloud utilizing terminal may obtain the predefined rules and the various attributes of the cloud utilizing terminal from a storage means external to the cloud utilizing terminal . The cloud utilizing terminal may also store cloud attribute data . The cloud utilizing terminal may include a characteristic survey engine to collect cloud attribute data . Also the cloud utilizing terminal may collect cloud attribute data from a storage cloud querying means outside of the cloud utilizing terminal for example in a server .

The predefined rules are rules that have been defined in advance by the administrator and are used to select a storage cloud. The predefined rules may also be established by company policy. The predefined rules may be written for example in XML. How to express predefined rules in XML is self evident to those skilled in the art so an explanation has been omitted.

The various attributes may include file attributes attributes of entity files or context folder attributes attributes of virtual folders access history and redundancy information. There are no particular restrictions. Any given attribute may be shared across different classifications of file attributes or contexts folder attributes access histories and redundancy information.

Entity file attributes include but are not limited to the following file name file format the presence or absence of compression and the compression format the presence or absence of encryption and the encryption method file size labels creation dates the most recent revision date the data type including the text content image content and video content the importance of the content the creator or administrator the most recent reviser of the data or any combination of these items. A label may be added on the basis of DLP data loss prevention data leak prevention . For an explanation of DLP refer to Patent Literature 6 Patent Literature 7 and Japanese Patent Application No. 2010 290465 filed by the present applicant. The attributes of an entity file may be periodically revised.

Virtual folder attributes include but are not limited to the following the use of a file stored in the virtual folder the file format the expiration date the presence or absence of a password for accessing the virtual folder the presence or absence of sharing of the virtual folder with other users the ability or lack of ability to create subfolders the presence or absence of virtual folder encryption the creator or administrator the users able to access the folder security and a password or any combination of these. The attributes of the virtual folder may be established for example using the shell expansion function. The attributes of a virtual folder may be periodically revised.

The access history may include for example when the user accessed a file the initial access date the most recent access date and the name of the user. The access history may be periodically updated.

The redundancy information may be information providing for redundancy in the file that is duplicates . The redundancy information includes but is not limited to the following 

When the same entity file is to be stored in a plurality of storage clouds a link is established in a synchronizing folder when a synchronizing folder is used associated with any storage cloud inside a virtual folder or in any storage cloud when a synchronizing folder is not used in accordance with the priority defined in the predefined rules and association information with other storage clouds is stored separately.

The entity files in a synchronizing folder associated with all of the storage clouds is monitored and changes to an entity file in a synchronizing folder associated with a given storage cloud are automatically reflected in a synchronizing folder associated with another storage cloud.

When the entity file at a link destination with the first priority has been deleted a link with the next priority is recreated or the entity file in all associated storage clouds is deleted as either selected by the user or dictated by the predefined rules .

An entity file is converted to a different format and stored in each storage cloud in order to provide an environment in which it can be browsed on a different terminal such as a tablet terminal or smartphone.

The context of the entity file includes but is not limited to the following the revision frequency utilization frequency hours worked workflow status presence or absence of a process being up and running another entity file associated with the entity file the name of another entity file being edited at the same time as the entity file the name of an application being started up at the same time the role of the user the location of the user the current location of the cloud utilizing terminal the access frequency of the cloud utilization terminal or any combination of these. The context of the entity file may be obtained from the entity file or may be obtained by referencing an outside device such as a storage medium for storing the context of entity files.

The cloud attribute data may be the characteristics of the service of the storage cloud. The cloud attribute data includes but is not limited to the following the service period availability for example the average occupancy during the period stability performance for example throughput and bandwidth redundancy for example the backup system and RAID type location of the storage cloud billing system monthly fee or capacity fee capacity limit for example a monthly capacity limit or the maximum size per file file storage expiration date contract period number of connectable clients number of contracted users evaluation ranking by a third party organization data format system for support access control system recovery time objectives guaranteed response time security for example encryption system or security level inspection multi tenancy or any combination of these. The attributes in the cloud attribute data may be periodically updated.

The characteristic survey engine may periodically send and receive test files from each storage cloud to survey the characteristics of the storage clouds that is the cloud attribute data . The characteristic survey engine may for example be used to obtain the availability performance or a combination of these. Also the characteristic survey engine may determine the availability and performance in the location information for each cloud utilizing terminal. The location information may be obtained from cloud utilizing terminals using an existing technology. For example the location information may be identified using GPS installed in the cloud utilizing terminals WiFi access points for the cloud utilizing terminals the IP address obtained by cloud utilizing terminals from the network or a card with an embedded IC chip used by the user of the cloud utilizing terminals to identify his or her location. Also the characteristic survey engine may survey the data stability if necessary from the presence or absence of entity files. The characteristic survey engine may be included in the cloud utilizing terminal . The characteristic survey engine may also be connected to the cloud utilizing terminal as an external device such as an IC chip or USB device.

The storage cloud querying means may be installed in a server connectable to the storage clouds. As in the case of the characteristic survey engine the storage cloud querying means may periodically send and receive test files to the storage clouds to survey the characteristics that is cloud attribute data of the storage clouds.

The folder managing means detects the creation copying or moving of an entity file in folder 1 . When any of these operations has been detected the folder managing means uploads the entity file to storage cloud A associated with folder 1 . Similarly the folder managing means detects the creation copying or moving of an entity file in folder 2 . When any of these operations has been detected the folder managing means uploads the entity file to storage cloud B associated with folder 2 . Similarly the folder managing means detects the creation copying or moving of an entity file in folder 3 . When any of these operations has been detected the folder managing means uploads the entity file to storage cloud C associated with folder 3 .

In the embodiment shown in there is a one to one correspondence between each folder in the cloud utilizing terminal and the storage clouds A C . Therefore the storage of a data entity file in a storage cloud depends on the folder and this operation is left up to the user. Therefore each folder functions as a synchronizing folder for each storage cloud A C . Therefore the user has to distinguish and manage the folder for each storage cloud and has to be aware of which data has been stored with which storage cloud service. Also storage that is storage cloud at a data storage center depends on folders. In addition the storage clouds at the data storage centers and the view that is folder view in the data display method depend on each other. Therefore the user sacrifices storage cloud convenience and folder ease of use.

In both and the cloud utilizing terminal includes a virtual folder managing means a file classifying engine and an entity file manipulating monitoring means . The cloud utilizing terminal is also connected via a network to storage cloud A storage cloud B and storage cloud C .

The following is an explanation of the embodiment of the present invention shown in referred to below as the embodiment shown in .

The folder managing means detects the creation copying or moving of an entity file in folder 1 . When any of these operations has been detected the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the detected entity file . The selecting means in the entity file manipulating means referred to below simply as the entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the storage cloud querying means selects storage cloud A satisfying the predefined rules and identifies synchronizing folder A associated with the selected storage cloud A . The uploading means in the entity file manipulating means referred to below simply as the entity file manipulating means moves the entity file in the virtual folder 1 to the identified synchronizing folder A . In response to this movement the virtual folder managing means displays a link to the entity file moved to synchronizing folder A in virtual folder 1 . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in synchronizing folder A to storage cloud A associated with synchronizing folder A . Storage cloud A stores the entity file uploaded to storage cloud A .

Similarly the folder managing means detects the creation copying or moving of an entity file in folder 1 . When any of these operations has been detected the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the detected entity file . The entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the storage cloud querying means selects storage cloud B satisfying the predefined rules and identifies synchronizing folder B associated with the selected storage cloud B . The entity file manipulating means moves the entity file in the virtual folder 1 to the identified synchronizing folder B . In response to this movement the virtual folder managing means displays a link to the entity file moved to synchronizing folder B in virtual folder 1 . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in synchronizing folder B to storage cloud B associated with synchronizing folder B . Storage cloud B stores the entity file uploaded to storage cloud B .

Similarly the virtual folder managing means detects the creation copying or moving of an entity file in folder 2 . When any of these operations has been detected the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the detected entity file . The entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the storage cloud querying means selects storage cloud C satisfying the predefined rules and identifies synchronizing folder C associated with the selected storage cloud C . The entity file manipulating means moves the entity file in the virtual folder 2 to the identified synchronizing folder C . In response to this movement the virtual folder managing means displays a link to the entity file moved to synchronizing folder C in virtual folder 2 . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in synchronizing folder C to storage cloud C associated with synchronizing folder C . Storage cloud C stores the entity file uploaded to storage cloud C .

In the embodiment shown in the file in virtual folder A was stored in storage cloud A and the file in virtual folder A was stored in storage cloud B . Thus when there is a plurality of files in the same virtual folder that is in a single virtual folder the files do not have to be stored in the same storage cloud. They can be distributed to a plurality of storage clouds. Also the user does not have to be conscious or aware of which storage cloud the files are stored in.

In the prior art as shown for example in two different files are distributed to and managed and displayed in different folders and in the cloud utilizing terminal . However as shown in the embodiment of the present invention in two different files can be integrated and displayed in a single virtual folder in the cloud utilizing terminal . In other words in the embodiment shown in the virtual folders and in the cloud utilizing terminal and the storage clouds A C and do not have a one to one correspondence. This means a particular folder that is virtual folder in the cloud utilizing terminal is not associated with a synchronizing folder. Thus in the embodiment of the present invention the files distributed to each storage service can be displayed in a transparently integrated virtual folder that is view . This means that the user can create and manage a virtual folder from the standpoint of the view for example a virtual folder limited to files related to a particular project or a virtual folder limited to files of a particular format but that the files stored in a single virtual folder can be distributed and managed in different storage clouds.

In the embodiment shown in a storage cloud is selected to satisfy predefined rules and a particular folder in a cloud utilizing terminal is dynamically associated with a synchronizing folder associated with the selected storage cloud. The storage of data entity files in a given storage cloud is automatically determined to satisfy predefined rules . Therefore the user does not have to distribute and manage folders in each storage cloud and does not even have to be conscious or aware of how the data has been assigned to storage cloud services. Also storage at a particular data storage center that is storage cloud does not depend on the folder that is storage is independent . Thus for the user storage in storage clouds is convenient and folders are easier to use.

The following is an explanation of the embodiment of the present invention shown in referred to below as the embodiment shown in .

Instead of the storage cloud querying means in the embodiment shown in the embodiment shown in uses a characteristic survey engine . Therefore in the embodiment shown in the cloud attribute data is provided by the characteristic survey engine . Because the rest of the embodiment is identical to the embodiment shown in further explanation has been omitted.

A characteristic survey engine may be used when the user of the cloud utilizing terminal does not belong to an organization such as a company or government agency but is using the terminal for personal private reasons. In the following embodiment the characteristic survey engine is being used in a situation in which the cloud utilizing terminal is being used by the user for private reasons. Because the user uses storage clouds according to an embodiment of the present invention it is important that the user understand that the characteristics of the storage clouds that is the cloud attribute data serve as the defined rules. In one example the characteristic survey engine in the cloud utilizing terminal may periodically send and receive test files to the storage clouds to survey the characteristics that is cloud attribute data of the storage clouds so that the user understands those characteristics. The results obtained by the characteristic survey engine are stored in the cloud attribute data .

When the attributes cannot be surveyed using the characteristic survey engine the user has to manually enter these attributes based on materials obtained from the storage clouds for example the terms of use. The attributes obtained from these materials by the user may include the following storage cloud capacity file expiration date files stored in a storage cloud which will disappear after a predetermined period of time regardless of access or files stored in a storage cloud which will disappear when there is no access for a predetermined period of time the maximum size per file uploadable to a storage cloud automatic operation permission use of the characteristic survey engine when the storage cloud does not allow for automatic operations whether or not a storage cloud account has been deleted when there has been no access after a predetermined period of time redundancy such as the presence or absence of backup and security encrypted storage of files or security level.

The attributes of the storage cloud may change over time. Therefore the attributes of the storage clouds are periodically queried and updated by a storage cloud querying means in a querying server connectable to each storage cloud via a network or are periodically queried and updated by a characteristic survey engine in the cloud utilizing terminal.

 1 The employees at a call center provide customer support at the call center. The employees use an electronic or hard copy manual to provide technical advice to customers and check the support status of a product or the price and provides this information to customers. 2 The following are the predefined rules . 1 Access Period Weekdays 9 00 18 00 2 Availability 99 customer inquiries will be answered promptly 3 Security and Backup Settings 1 Confidential files including text specified as confidential or estimated to be confidential and files determined to include personal information such as customer names addresses and phone numbers are stored in a high security storage cloud. When a high security storage cloud does not provide file backup services a backup is created in another high security storage cloud 4 Security and Backup Settings 2 Other files containing public information or in house information are stored in at least a low security storage cloud. Files that are frequently updated are temporarily stored in another storage cloud and links are created in a high performance storage cloud from a synchronizing folder . When a file has not been used or updated at a predetermined frequency threshold the latest version of the file is kept on the original low security storage cloud and the corresponding files are deleted from other storage clouds. 5 Accessibility Access to confidential files and files determined to include personal information is not permitted outside of the company such as at home a warning alerts any employee who attempts to access confidential files and files determined to include personal information may be any rule and 6 Redundancy When there is another storage cloud with good performance at the current location of the user and a file can be duplicated in the other storage cloud the file is duplicated in the other storage cloud and a link is temporarily created to the file in the other storage cloud. When use of the file has been completed the latest version of the file remains in the original storage cloud but the corresponding file is deleted from the other storage cloud.

In there is a link to the file inquiry management form template.doc in virtual folder 1 and the entity file corresponding to this link is stored in storage cloud A . The file inquiry management form template.doc is a template file with the following items reference number customer name telephone number and summary of the problem. In this template information has not yet been entered into the items see .

At home the employee creates virtual folder 1 in the cloud utilizing terminal . The employee uses the mouse to drag inquiry management form template.doc created beforehand into virtual folder 1 .

The virtual folder managing means detects movement of an entity file in virtual folder 1 . The folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the detected entity file . The entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the storage cloud querying means selects storage cloud A satisfying the predefined rules from among storage cloud A and storage cloud B and identifies synchronizing folder A associated with the selected storage cloud A . In this embodiment storage cloud A satisfies the predefined rules because inquiry management form template.doc does not include confidential information. Next the entity file manipulating means moves the entity file in the virtual folder 1 to the identified synchronizing folder A . In response to this movement the virtual folder managing means displays a link to the entity file moved to synchronizing folder A in virtual folder 1 . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in synchronizing folder A to storage cloud A associated with synchronizing folder A . Storage cloud A stores the entity file uploaded to storage cloud A .

In there is a link to the file inquiry management form template.doc in virtual folder 1 and the entity file corresponding to this link is moved from storage cloud A to storage cloud B .

At the company the employee clicks on the link to the file inquiry management form template.doc in virtual folder 1 to open entityfile inquiry management form template.doc in the corresponding synchronizing folder A . The item corresponding record is added and the document is saved see .

The virtual file monitoring means detects a change to the entity file. In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the entity file . In this embodiment the changed inquiry management form template.doc does not include confidential information. However the entity file monitoring means detects from the addition of corresponding record that the file inquiry management form template.doc has been frequently accessed. Therefore the entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the storage cloud querying means and stores the changed inquiry management form template.doc in storage cloud B satisfying the predefined rules . As a result the entity file manipulating means copies the entity file in synchronizing folder A to the synchronizing folder B . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in synchronizing folder B to the storage cloud B associated with the synchronizing folder B . The storage cloud B stores the entity file uploaded to the storage cloud B . Access performance to the changed inquiry management form template.doc from inside the company is better from storage cloud B than storage cloud A . Therefore the virtual folder managing means temporarily rewrites that is changes the link destination of the link in virtual folder 1 from synchronizing folder A to synchronizing folder B . Also the virtual folder managing means changes the priority ranking of the link so that synchronizing folder B is higher than synchronizing folder A .

Employees may attempt to access the entity file in storage cloud B inside the company and outside of the company for example at home . However because storage cloud B has high security see the employee cannot access the entity file outside of the company. However when the access attempt is detected the virtual folder managing means writes the link destination of the link in the virtual folder 1 from synchronizing folder B to synchronizing folder A associated with low security storage cloud A see . Also the virtual folder managing means changes the priority ranking of the link so that synchronizing folder A is higher than synchronizing folder B . In other words the priority ranking of the link is changed so that the link destination is returned to its original state. This change allows the employee to transparently access the entity file in the storage cloud A .

At home the employee copies inquiry management form template.doc in virtual folder 1 to virtual folder 2 .

The virtual folder managing means detects copying of inquiry management form template.doc in virtual folder 2 . In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the copied file inquiry management form template.doc . The entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the storage cloud querying means selects storage cloud A satisfying the predefined rules from among storage cloud A and storage cloud B and identifies synchronizing folder A associated with the selected storage cloud A . In this embodiment storage cloud A satisfies the predefined rules because the copied file inquiry management form template.doc does not include confidential information. Next the entity file manipulating means moves the entity file in the virtual folder 2 to the identified synchronizing folder A . In response to this movement the virtual folder managing means displays a link to the entity file moved to synchronizing folder A in virtual folder 2 . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in synchronizing folder A to storage cloud A associated with synchronizing folder A . Storage cloud A stores the entity file uploaded to storage cloud A .

Next at the company the employee opens file inquiry management form template.doc in virtual folder 2 using an application clicks on the link with the file name opens the corresponding entity file inquiry management form template.doc changes the file name from inquiry management form template.doc to inquiry management No1001.doc fills in items reference number customer name phone number summary of problem and corresponding record and saves the changes see .

The virtual file monitoring means detects a change to the entity file. In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the entity file . Next the entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the storage cloud querying means selects storage cloud B satisfying the predefined rules from among storage cloud A and storage cloud B and identifies synchronizing folder B associated with the selected storage cloud B . In this embodiment storage cloud B satisfies the predefined rules because inquiry No1001.doc includes confidential information such as the customer name and phone number. Next the entity file manipulating means moves the entity file in synchronizing file A to the identified synchronizing folder B . In response the virtual folder managing means changes the link destination for the link in synchronizing folder B from synchronizing folder A to synchronizing folder B . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in synchronizing folder B to storage cloud B associated with synchronizing folder B . The storage cloud B stores the entity file uploaded to the storage cloud B . Also the entity file manipulating means detects the deletion by moving the entity file from synchronizing folder A to synchronizing folder B . In response the storage cloud A deletes the entity file from storage cloud A .

Employees may attempt to access the entity file in storage cloud B inside the company and outside of the company for example at home . However because storage cloud B has high security see the employee cannot access the entity file outside of the company. Also because entity file includes confidential information such as the customer s name and phone number the entity file in storage cloud B is not copied or moved to storage cloud A as in the embodiment explained in . Therefore the employee cannot access entity file outside of the company.

In there is a link to the file inquiry management form template.doc in virtual folder 1 and the entity file corresponding to this link is stored in storage cloud A .

At home the employee creates virtual folder 1 in the cloud utilizing terminal . The employee uses the mouse to drag inquiry management form template.doc created beforehand into virtual folder 1 .

The virtual folder managing means detects movement of an entity file in virtual folder 1 . The folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the detected entity file . The entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the storage cloud querying means selects storage cloud A satisfying the predefined rules from among storage cloud A and storage cloud B . In this embodiment storage cloud A satisfies the predefined rules because inquiry management form template.doc does not include confidential information. Next the entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in the virtual folder 1 to the selected storage cloud A . Storage cloud A stores the entity file uploaded to storage cloud A . The virtual folder managing means displays a link for example a URL link to the entity file uploaded to storage cloud A in virtual folder 1 .

In there is a link to the file inquiry management form template.doc in virtual folder 1 and the entity file corresponding to this link is moved from storage cloud A to storage cloud B .

At the company the employee clicks on the link to the file inquiry management form template.doc in virtual folder 1 to download the corresponding entity file inquiry management form template.doc from storage cloud A . The item corresponding record is added and the document is saved see .

The virtual file monitoring means detects a change to the entity file. In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the entity file. In this embodiment the changed inquiry management form template.doc does not include confidential information. However the entity file monitoring means detects from the addition of corresponding record that the file inquiry management form template.doc has been frequently accessed. Therefore the entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the storage cloud querying means and stores the changed inquiry management form template.doc in storage cloud B satisfying the predefined rules . As a result the entity file manipulating means uploads the downloaded entity file inquiry management form template.doc to storage cloud B . The storage cloud B stores the entity file uploaded to the storage cloud B . Access performance to the changed inquiry management form template.doc from inside the company is better from storage cloud B than storage cloud A . Therefore the virtual folder managing means temporarily rewrites that is changes the link destination of the link in virtual folder 1 from storage cloud A to storage cloud B . Also the virtual folder managing means changes the priority ranking of the link so that storage cloud B is higher than storage cloud A .

Employees may attempt to access the entity file in storage cloud B inside the company and outside of the company for example at home . However because storage cloud B has high security see the employee cannot access the entity file outside of the company. However when the access attempt is detected the virtual folder managing means writes the link destination of the link in the virtual folder 1 from storage cloud B to low security storage cloud A see . Also the virtual folder managing means changes the priority ranking of the link so that storage cloud A is higher than storage cloud B . In other words the priority ranking of the link is changed so that the link destination is returned to its original state. This change allows the employee to transparently access the entity file in the storage cloud A .

At home the employee copies inquiry management form template.doc in virtual folder 1 to virtual folder 2 .

The virtual folder managing means detects copying of inquiry management form template.doc in virtual folder 2 . In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the copied file inquiry management form template.doc . The entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the storage cloud querying means and selects storage cloud A satisfying the predefined rules from among storage cloud A and storage cloud B . In this embodiment storage cloud A satisfies the predefined rules because the copied file inquiry management form template.doc does not include confidential information. Next the entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in the virtual folder 2 to the selected storage cloud A . Storage cloud A stores the entity file uploaded to storage cloud A . The virtual folder managing means displays a link for example a URL link to the entity file uploaded to storage cloud A in virtual folder 2 .

Next at the company the employee opens file inquiry management form template.doc in virtual folder 2 using an application clicks on the link with the file name opens the corresponding entity file inquiry management form template.doc changes the file name from inquiry management form template.doc to inquiry management No1001.doc fills in items reference number customer name phone number summary of problem and corresponding record and saves the changes see .

The virtual file monitoring means detects a change to the entity file. In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the entity file. Next the entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the storage cloud querying means selects storage cloud B satisfying the predefined rules from among storage cloud A and storage cloud B and identifies synchronizing folder B associated with the selected storage cloud B . In this embodiment storage cloud B satisfies the predefined rules because inquiry No1001.doc includes confidential information such as the customer name and phone number. Next the entity file manipulating means moves the downloaded and edited entity file to storage cloud B . The storage cloud B stores the entity file uploaded to the storage cloud B . In response the virtual folder managing means changes the link destination for the link in storage cloud B from storage cloud A to storage cloud B . Also the storage cloud A deletes the entity file from storage cloud A .

Employees may attempt to access the entity file in storage cloud B inside the company and outside of the company for example at home . However because storage cloud B has high security see the employee cannot access the entity file outside of the company. Also because entity file includes confidential information such as the customer s name and phone number the entity file in storage cloud B is not copied or moved to storage cloud A as in the embodiment explained in . Therefore the employee cannot access entity file outside of the company.

 1 The employees in the sales office sell products at the sales office. The employees create materials for customers in order to promote sales.

2 Availability 95 the availability of employees in a sales office is lower than that of employees at a call center because the employees in a sales office more than employees working at a call center are able to put off work to do other work when the storage cloud cannot be accessed 3 Security and Backup Settings 1 Confidential files including text specified as confidential or estimated to be confidential and files determined to include personal information such as customer names addresses and phone numbers are stored in a high security storage cloud. When a high security storage cloud does not provide file backup services a backup is created in another high security storage cloud 4 Security and Backup Settings 2 Other files containing public information or in house information are stored in at least a low security storage cloud. Files that are frequently updated are temporarily stored in another storage cloud and links are created in a high performance storage cloud from a synchronizing folder . When a file has not been used or updated at a predetermined frequency threshold the latest version of the file is kept on the original low security storage cloud and the corresponding files are deleted from other storage clouds. 5 Accessibility Access to confidential files and files determined to include personal information is permitted outside of the company such as at home however uploading of confidential files and files determined to include personal information is not permitted outside of the company such as at home. Downloaded files are temporarily stored in a synchronizing folder local cache . However when the downloaded file has not been updated for 24 hours the file is automatically deleted from the synchronizing folder local cache when an employee returning to the office is able to upload an entity file stored in the synchronizing folder local cache from the company to a storage cloud whether to upload or delete the temporarily stored filed is confirmed by the employee may be any rule 6 Redundancy When there is another storage cloud with good performance at the current location of the user and a file can be duplicated in the other storage cloud the file is duplicated in the other storage cloud and a link is temporarily created to the file in the other storage cloud. When use of the file has been completed the latest version of the file remains in the original storage cloud but the corresponding file is deleted from the other storage cloud and 7 Synchronizing Folder Downloaded files are basically stored in the local cache employees may transparently access the local cache where there is no connection to the network may be any rule .

In there is a link to the file customer list register.xls in virtual folder 1 and the entity file corresponding to this link is stored in storage cloud D and the entity file corresponding to entity file is stored by the user in storage cloud E . The file customer list register.xls is a template file with the following items reference number customer name address and telephone number. Thus information has not yet been entered into the items.

At home the employee creates virtual folder 1 in the cloud utilizing terminal . The employee uses the mouse to copy customer list register.xls created beforehand into virtual folder 1 .

The virtual folder managing means detects movement of an entity file in virtual folder 1 . The folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the detected entity file . The entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the storage cloud querying means selects storage cloud D satisfying the predefined rules from among storage clouds C F and identifies synchronizing folder D associated with the selected storage cloud D . In this embodiment storage cloud D satisfies the predefined rules because customer list register.xls does not include confidential information. Next the entity file manipulating means moves the entity file in the virtual folder 1 to the identified synchronizing folder D . In response to this movement the virtual folder managing means displays a link to the entity file moved to synchronizing folder D in virtual folder 1 . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in synchronizing folder D to storage cloud D associated with synchronizing folder D . Storage cloud D stores the entity file uploaded to storage cloud D .

At the company the employee clicks on the link to the file customer list register.xls in virtual folder 1 to open entity file customer list register.xls update the content and save the file.

The virtual file monitoring means detects a change to the entity file. In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the entity file . In this embodiment the changed customer list register.xls does not include confidential information. However the entity file monitoring means detects from the addition of corresponding record that the file customer list register.xls has been frequently accessed. Therefore the entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the storage cloud querying means and stores the changed customer list register.xls in storage cloud E satisfying the predefined rules . As a result the entity file manipulating means copies the entity file in synchronizing folder D to the synchronizing folder E . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in synchronizing folder E to the storage cloud E associated with the synchronizing folder E . The storage cloud E stores the entity file uploaded to the storage cloud E . Access performance to the changed customer list register.xls from inside the company is better from storage cloud E than storage cloud D . Therefore the virtual folder managing means temporarily rewrites the link destination of the link in virtual folder 1 from synchronizing folder D to synchronizing folder E . Also the virtual folder managing means changes the priority ranking of the link so that synchronizing folder E is higher than synchronizing folder D .

Employees may attempt to access the entity file in storage cloud E inside the company and outside of the company for example at home . However because storage cloud E has high security see the employee cannot access the entity file outside of the company. However when the access attempt is detected the virtual folder managing means writes the link destination of the link in the virtual folder 1 from synchronizing folder E to synchronizing folder D associated with low security storage cloud D see . Also the virtual folder managing means changes the priority ranking of the link so that synchronizing folder D is higher than synchronizing folder E . In other words the priority ranking of the link is changed so that the link destination is returned to its original state. This change allows the employee to transparently access the entity file in the storage cloud D .

In there is a link to the file customer list register.xls in virtual folder 1 and the entity file corresponding to this link is moved from storage cloud D to storage cloud C .

On a business trip in Nagoya the employee clicks on the link to the file customer list register.xls in virtual folder 1 to open the corresponding entity file customer list register.xls . Access performance to the accessed customer list register.xls from outside the company is better from storage cloud C than storage cloud D . Therefore the virtual folder managing means temporarily rewrites that is changes the link destination of the link in virtual folder 1 from synchronizing folder D to synchronizing folder C . Also the virtual folder managing means changes the priority ranking of the link so that synchronizing folder C is higher than synchronizing folder D .

At the company the employee opens the file customer list register.xls in virtual folder 1 enters customer information changes the file name from customer list register.xls to customer No2001.xls and stores the document in virtual folder 2 .

The virtual folder managing means detects storage of customer No2001.xls in virtual folder 2 . In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the entity file. In this embodiment customer No2001.xls contains customer information which is confidential information. The entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the storage cloud querying means selects storage cloud F satisfying the predefined rules from among storage clouds C F and identifies synchronizing folder F associated with the selected storage cloud F . In this embodiment storage cloud F satisfies the predefined rules because the copied file customer No2001.xls includes confidential information. Next the entity file manipulating means copies the entity file in synchronizing folder D to synchronizing folder F . In response the virtual folder managing means displays a link to the entity file copied to synchronizing folder F in virtual folder 2 see . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in synchronizing folder F to storage cloud F associated with synchronizing folder F . Storage cloud F stores the entity file uploaded to storage cloud F .

Outside of the company the employee attempts to open and edit file customer No2001.xls in virtual folder 2 . Because customer No2001.xls in virtual folder 2 is actually a link the employee edits the entity file corresponding to this link.

The entity file monitoring means detects this editing. Because file customer No2001.xls is being edited by the user outside of the company the entity file manipulating means does not upload the edited entity file to the storage cloud F in accordance with policy 5 in the predefined rules . In other words entity file in synchronizing folder is not synchronized with entity file in storage cloud F . As a result the user can edit and update only entity file in the synchronizing folder .

The employee returns to the company from the business trip. The position of the employee may be identified by GPS installed in the cloud utilizing terminal the IP address obtained by cloud utilizing terminals from the network or a card with an embedded IC chip used by the user of the cloud utilizing terminals to identify his or her location.

Because the edited entity file detected earlier has not been uploaded to the storage cloud F the entity file monitoring means prompts the user to enter an instruction on whether to upload the edited entity file to the storage cloud F in accordance with the predefined rules 5 . In response to an uploading instruction from the user the entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in the synchronizing folder F to the storage cloud F . The storage cloud writes over the existing entity file in the storage cloud F with the uploaded entity file .

1 Security and Backup Settings 1 Business files containing confidential information or personal information are stored in a high security storage cloud other business files are stored in a medium security storage cloud or higher files presumed to be for private use such as files containing personal information and image files or video files including the faces of individuals are stored in a high security storage cloud all other files are basically stored in low security storage clouds or higher 2 Security and Backup Settings 2 Files requiring permanent storage are periodically accessed so as not to be deleted or copied to the same storage cloud prior to the storage deadline and 3 Redundancy When a file is frequently updated the file is temporarily duplicated at another storage cloud and a link is temporarily established from the synchronizing folder to the file in the higher performance storage cloud. When the file has not been used or updated at a predetermined frequency threshold the file in the original storage cloud is kept and the corresponding files are deleted from other storage clouds.

In there are two links and to image files in virtual file 2 the entity file corresponding to link is stored in storage cloud G and the entity file corresponding to link is stored in storage cloud I .

At home the user attempts to create virtual folder 1 in a cloud utilizing terminal . The user attaches the attribute permanent storage to virtual folder 1 and stores scenery1.jpg which is an image including only scenery in the folder.

The virtual folder managing means detects storage of entity file in virtual folder 1 . In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the entity file . The entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine selects storage cloud G satisfying the predefined rules from among storage clouds G I and identifies synchronizing folder G associated with the selected storage cloud G . In this embodiment low security storage cloud G satisfies the predefined rules because the file scenery1.jpg includes confidential information or personal information. Next the entity file manipulating means copies the entity file in virtual folder 1 to synchronizing folder G . In response the virtual folder managing means displays a link to the entity file moved to synchronizing folder G in virtual folder 1 . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in synchronizing folder G to storage cloud G associated with synchronizing folder G . Storage cloud G stores the entity file uploaded to storage cloud G .

Storage cloud G has an expiration date in which the files stored in storage cloud G are deleted unless they have been accessed in the past week see . Therefore the user may set the entity file monitoring means to automatically access the entity file in the storage cloud G before the expiration date is reached. The entity file manipulating means may display a screen prompting the user to establish this setting. The entity file monitoring means then automatically accesses the entity file in the storage cloud G before the expiration date is reached in accordance with the settings. When the entity file monitoring means cannot access the network or the storage cloud G before the expiration date has been reached the user may be warned before the expiration date has been reached that the entity file will be deleted from the storage cloud .

At home the user also stores image file person1.jpg taken of a person in virtual folder 1 with the attribute permanent storage .

The virtual folder managing means detects storage of entity file in virtual folder 1 . In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the entity file . The entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine selects storage cloud I satisfying the predefined rules from among storage clouds G I and identifies synchronizing folder I associated with the selected storage cloud I . In this embodiment high security storage cloud I satisfies the predefined rules because the file person1.jpg includes personal information. Next the entity file manipulating means copies the entity file in virtual folder 1 to synchronizing folder I . In response the virtual folder managing means displays a link to the entity file moved to synchronizing folder I . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in synchronizing folder I to storage cloud I associated with synchronizing folder I . Storage cloud I stores the entity file uploaded to storage cloud I .

Storage cloud I does not have an expiration date for deleting files stored in storage cloud I see . Therefore the entity file in storage cloud I is not deleted.

In there is a link to the file product catalog.pdf and a link to the file customer template.xls in virtual folder 2 the entity file corresponding to link is stored in storage cloud H and the entity file corresponding to link is divided into a plurality of sections and stored in storage cloud H .

At work the user creates virtual folder 2 in the cloud utilizing terminal . The user stores the file product catalog.pdf in virtual folder 2 which has the attribute not permanent storage . The file size of product catalog.pdf is 10 M bytes.

The virtual folder managing means detects storage of entity file in virtual folder 2 . In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the entity file . The entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine selects storage cloud H satisfying the predefined rules from among storage clouds G I and identifies synchronizing folder H associated with the selected storage cloud H . In this embodiment medium security storage cloud H satisfies the predefined rules because the file product catalog.pdf is a business file that does not include either confidential information or personal information. Next the entity file manipulating means copies the entity file in virtual folder 2 to synchronizing folder H . In response the virtual folder managing means displays a link to the entity file moved to synchronizing folder H in virtual folder 2 . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in synchronizing folder H to storage cloud H associated with synchronizing folder H . Storage cloud H stores the entity file uploaded to storage cloud H . Because storage cloud H has a per file limit of 25 M the entity file manipulating means uploads entity file file size 10 M to storage cloud H without dividing the file into sections.

Storage cloud H has an expiration date in which the files stored in storage cloud H are deleted unless they have been accessed in the past week see . The entity file monitoring means may display a warning before the expiration date has been reached that the entity file will be deleted from the storage cloud H . If no such instruction has been provided by the user storage cloud H deletes entity file . Also the entity file monitoring means deletes the entity file in the synchronizing folder . The entity file monitoring means may be set to copy that is update the entity file in the storage cloud H or store the file in another storage cloud before the expiration date is reached. The entity file manipulating means may display a screen to prompt the user to establish these settings.

At work the user stores the file client template.xls in virtual folder 2 which has the attribute permanent storage . The file size of client template.xls is 60 M bytes.

The virtual folder managing means detects storage of entity file in virtual folder 2 . In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the entity file . The entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine selects storage cloud H satisfying the predefined rules from among storage clouds G I and identifies synchronizing folder H associated with the selected storage cloud H . In this embodiment medium security storage cloud H satisfies the predefined rules because the file client template.xls is a business file that does not include either confidential information or personal information. Next the entity file manipulating means copies the entity file in virtual folder 2 to synchronizing folder H . In response the virtual folder managing means displays a link to the entity file moved to synchronizing folder H in virtual folder 2 . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in synchronizing folder H to storage cloud H associated with synchronizing folder H . Storage cloud H stores the entity file uploaded to storage cloud H . Because storage cloud H has a per file limit of 25 M the entity file manipulating means uploads entity file file size 60 M to storage cloud H after dividing the file into three sections that do not exceed the per file limit of 25 M.

Storage cloud H has an expiration date in which the files stored in storage cloud H are deleted unless they have been accessed in the past week see . The entity file monitoring means may display a warning before the expiration date has been reached that the three files constituting entity file will be deleted from the storage cloud H . If no such instruction has been provided by the user storage cloud H deletes entity file . Also the entity file monitoring means deletes the entity file in the synchronizing folder . The entity file monitoring means may be set to copy that is update the entity file in the storage cloud H or store the file in another storage cloud before the expiration date is reached. The entity file manipulating means may display a screen to prompt the user to establish these settings.

In there is a link to the file customer list No1.xls and the entity file corresponding to link is stored in storage cloud I .

At work the user creates virtual folder 2 in the cloud utilizing terminal . The user stores the file customer list No1.xls in virtual folder 2 which has the attribute permanent storage . The file size of customer list No1.xls is 60 M bytes.

The virtual folder managing means detects storage of entity file in virtual folder 2 . In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the entity file . The entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine selects storage cloud I satisfying the predefined rules from among storage clouds G I and identifies synchronizing folder I associated with the selected storage cloud I . In this embodiment high security storage cloud I satisfies the predefined rules because the file customer list No1.xls is a business file including either confidential information or personal information. Next the entity file manipulating means copies the entity file in virtual folder 2 to synchronizing folder I . In response the virtual folder managing means displays a link to the entity file moved to synchronizing folder I in virtual folder 2 . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in synchronizing folder I to storage cloud I associated with synchronizing folder I . Storage cloud I stores the entity file uploaded to storage cloud I . Because storage cloud I does not have a per file limit the entity file manipulating means uploads entity file file size 60 M to storage cloud I without dividing the file into sections.

Storage cloud I does not have an expiration date for deleting files stored in storage cloud I see . Therefore the entity file in storage cloud I is not deleted.

In an individual user manages photographs by event 2011 athletic meet and 2012 picnic on a tablet terminal. In there is a link to a scenery image file and two links and to person image files in virtual folder 1 2011 athletic meet and a link to a person image file and a link to a scenery image file in virtual folder 2 2012 picnic . The entity files corresponding to the links to the person image files are stored in a high security storage cloud referred to as the high security cloud below and the entity files corresponding to the links to the scenery image files are stored in a low security storage cloud referred to as the low security cloud below .

The virtual folder managing means detects storage of a scenery image file in virtual folder 1 . In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the scenery image file. The entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine selects the low security storage cloud satisfying the predefined rules from among the high security storage cloud and the low security storage cloud and identifies the low security synchronizing folder associated with the selected low security storage cloud . In this embodiment the low security storage cloud satisfies the predefined rules because the scenery image file does not include confidential information or personal information. Next the entity file manipulating means copies the entity file in virtual folder 1 to low security synchronizing folder . In response the virtual folder managing means displays a link to the entity file moved to the low security synchronizing folder in virtual folder 1 . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in the low security synchronizing folder to the low security cloud associated with the low security synchronizing folder . The low security cloud stores the entity file uploaded to the low security cloud .

The virtual folder managing means detects storage of a person image file in virtual folder 1 . In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the person image file. The entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine selects the high security storage cloud satisfying the predefined rules from among the high security storage cloud and the low security storage cloud and identifies the high security synchronizing folder associated with the selected high security storage cloud . In this embodiment the high security storage cloud satisfies the predefined rules because the person image file includes personal information. Next the entity file manipulating means copies the entity files and in virtual folder 1 to high security synchronizing folder . In response the virtual folder managing means displays links and to the entity files and moved to the high security synchronizing folder in virtual folder 1 . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity files and in the high security synchronizing folder to the high security cloud associated with the high security synchronizing folder . The high security cloud stores the entity files and uploaded to the high security cloud .

The virtual folder managing means detects storage of a person image file in virtual folder 2 . In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the person image file. The entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine selects the high security storage cloud satisfying the predefined rules from among the high security storage cloud and the low security storage cloud and identifies the high security synchronizing folder associated with the selected high security storage cloud . In this embodiment the high security storage cloud satisfies the predefined rules because the person image file includes personal information. Next the entity file manipulating means copies the entity file in virtual folder 2 to the selected high security synchronizing folder . In response the virtual folder managing means displays a link to the entity file moved to the high security synchronizing folder in virtual folder 2 . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in the high security synchronizing folder to the high security cloud associated with the high security synchronizing folder . The high security cloud stores the entity file uploaded to the high security cloud .

The virtual folder managing means detects storage of a scenery image file in virtual folder 2 . In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the scenery image file. The entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine selects the low security storage cloud satisfying the predefined rules from among the high security storage cloud and the low security storage cloud and identifies the low security synchronizing folder associated with the selected low security storage cloud . In this embodiment the low security storage cloud satisfies the predefined rules because the scenery image file does not include personal information. Next the entity file manipulating means copies the entity file in virtual folder 2 to the selected low security synchronizing folder . In response the virtual folder managing means displays a link to the entity file moved to the low security synchronizing folder in virtual folder 2 . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in the low security synchronizing folder to the low security cloud associated with the low security synchronizing folder . The low security cloud stores the entity file uploaded to the low security cloud .

In as mentioned above an individual user manages photographs on a tablet terminal by event but the photographs are also classified by security level and automatically uploaded to the storage cloud with the appropriate security level. Therefore the individual user can simply classify the photographs by event without having to give any thought to the security level.

In the individual user after the operations shown in copies copy the person image files actually the links in the virtual folder 2 2012 picnic to web folder in order to upload copy them to web server where they are made public.

The virtual folder managing means detects the copying of a person image file in virtual folder 2 to the web folder. In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the copied person image file. As a result the entity file manipulating means references the contents various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine selects the low security storage cloud satisfying the predefined rules from among the high security storage cloud and the low security storage cloud and identifies the low security synchronizing folder associated with the selected low security storage cloud . In this embodiment the low security storage cloud satisfies the predefined rules because the results of the determination are that the person image file has a low security level. Next the entity file manipulating means moves the entity file in the high security synchronizing folder to the selected low security synchronizing folder . In response the virtual folder managing means writes over the link in the low security synchronizing folder from the entity file in the high security synchronizing folder to the entity file in the low security synchronizing folder . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file in the low security synchronizing folder to the low security cloud associated with the low security synchronizing folder . The low security cloud stores the entity file uploaded to the low security cloud . The entity file manipulating means then synchronizes the entity file in the high security synchronizing folder with the entity file in the high security cloud . Because the moving operation deletes the entity file in the high security synchronizing folder the high security cloud deletes the entity file from the high security cloud .

The storage cloud A being used has a service licensing agreement SLA . However the SLA may be unilaterally changed by the administrator of the storage cloud A . After the change the SLA may no longer satisfy the predefined rules associated with the cloud utilizing terminal . Because any revision of contract terms to a storage cloud A currently in use may increase the risk of personal information or confidential information being divulged there has to be an automatic switch to another storage cloud with an SLA identical to the SLA prior to the change that is which satisfies the predefined rules associated with the cloud utilizing terminal . In order to be able to perform this automatic switch a storage cloud querying means for example a querying server is provided by in house or by a third party organization. The storage cloud querying means standardizes and manages the service agreement terms of each storage cloud. The storage cloud querying means for example matches the services of storage clouds satisfying the predefined rules in response to a request from a cloud utilizing terminal . Also the storage cloud querying means indicates the evaluation priorities for each policy term in the predefined rules in the cloud attribute data and provides a list of storage clouds meeting the evaluation priorities in descending order. If public specifications or a standardized application programming interface API is provided for storage clouds a storage cloud querying means is not required.

In there is an automatic switch from storage cloud A to storage cloud B when the SLA of storage cloud A is changed.

The entity file manipulating means detects a change to the SLA of the storage cloud A . The entity file manipulating means references the changed SLA the contents of the entity files various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine and determines that storage cloud A no longer satisfies the predefined rules . The entity file manipulating means searches for storage clouds that satisfy the predefined rules and determines that storage cloud B satisfies the predefined rules . The entity file manipulating means moves the entity files in the synchronizing folder A to the synchronizing folder B associated with the identified storage cloud B . The entity file manipulating means then uploads the entity files in the synchronizing folder B to the storage cloud B associated with the synchronizing folder B . In response the virtual folder managing means rewrites the links in virtual folder 1 from synchronizing folder A to synchronizing folder B . In response the entity file manipulating means synchronizes the entity files in synchronizing folder A and storage cloud A . In accordance with this synchronization storage cloud A deletes the entity files from storage cloud A .

With this operation the storage cloud is automatically switched from storage cloud A to storage cloud B in accordance with the changes to the storage cloud contract terms.

When entity file manipulating means performs a search for storage clouds satisfying the predefined rules evaluation priorities may be indicated for each policy term in the predefined rules . The following is an example of evaluation priorities priority order in descending order with No. 1 being the highest priority.

The virtual folder managing means detects copying of the entity file in virtual folder 1 . The folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the entity file. The entity file has a portion containing personal information and a portion not containing personal information. In the predefined rules portions of entity files containing personal information are divided as meta data files and portions of entity files containing personal information undergo mask processing. The file classifying engine divides entity files into entity files A with mask processed portions containing personal information and meta data files B with portions including personal information in accordance with the predefined rules .

The entity file manipulating means references the contents of the entity file various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine selects storage cloud A satisfying the predefined rules from among the storage cloud A and storage cloud B and identifies the synchronizing folder A associated with the selected storage cloud A . Because entity file A does not contain personal information storage cloud A satisfies the predefined rules . Next the entity file manipulating means stores the entity file A in synchronizing folder A . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file A in the synchronizing folder A to storage cloud A associated with synchronizing folder A . Storage cloud A stores the entity file A uploaded to storage cloud A .

The entity file manipulating means references the contents of the entity file various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine selects storage cloud B satisfying the predefined rules from among the storage cloud A and storage cloud B and identifies the synchronizing folder B associated with the selected storage cloud B . Because meta data file B contains personal information storage cloud B satisfies the predefined rules . Next the entity file manipulating means stores the meta data file B in synchronizing folder B . The entity file manipulating means uploads the meta data file B in the synchronizing folder B to storage cloud B associated with synchronizing folder B . Storage cloud B stores the meta data file B uploaded to storage cloud B .

The virtual folder managing means displays in virtual folder 1 the links to the entity files A stored in synchronizing folder A and the entity meta data files B stored in synchronizing folder B .

By performing these operations portions of an entity file containing confidential information and portions of an entity file not containing confidential information can be automatically stored in different storage clouds.

The virtual folder managing means detects copying of the entity files in virtual folder 1 . The folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the entity files. The compressed entity files include files containing personal information and files including no personal information . In the predefined rules files containing personal information are separated from files not containing personal information. The file classifying engine divides compressed entity files into entity files containing personal information B c d e f g h and entity files not containing personal information A a b j in accordance with the predefined rules . These are referred to as compressed files B A respectively.

The entity file manipulating means references the contents of the compressed files A various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine selects storage cloud A satisfying the predefined rules from among the storage cloud A and storage cloud B for the compressed files A and identifies the synchronizing folder A associated with the selected storage cloud A . Because compressed file A does not contain personal information storage cloud A satisfies the predefined rules . Next the entity file manipulating means stores the compressed file A in synchronizing folder A . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file A in the synchronizing folder A to storage cloud A associated with synchronizing folder A . Storage cloud A stores the entity file A uploaded to storage cloud A .

The entity file manipulating means references the contents of the compressed files B various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine selects storage cloud B satisfying the predefined rules from among the storage cloud A and storage cloud B and identifies the synchronizing folder B associated with the selected storage cloud B . Because compressed file B contains personal information storage cloud B satisfies the predefined rules . Next the entity file manipulating means stores the compressed file B in synchronizing folder B . The entity file manipulating means uploads the entity file B in the synchronizing folder B to storage cloud B associated with synchronizing folder B . Storage cloud B stores the entity file A uploaded to storage cloud B .

The virtual folder managing means displays in virtual folder 1 the links to the compressed files A stored in synchronizing folder A and the compressed files B stored in synchronizing folder B .

By performing these operations compressed files containing confidential information and compressed files not containing confidential information can be automatically stored in different storage clouds.

A user may wish to temporarily display data from a presentation on a tablet for demonstration purposes to customers. However the data stored in the storage cloud I cannot be browsed because the tablet has not been pre registered.

In there is a link to a presentation file in virtual folder 1 the presentation file corresponding to the link is stored in storage cloud A there is a link to a file in virtual folder 2 in which the presentation file has been converted to a read only PDF file and the PDF file corresponding to the link has been stored in storage cloud H .

The user converts the presentation file in virtual folder 1 to a read only PDF file and stores the file in virtual folder 2 .

The virtual folder managing means detects storage of the PDF file in virtual folder 2 . In response the folder classifying engine uses text analysis or natural language processing to extract attributes from the contents and any context of the PDF file. The security level managing means not shown references the format of the entity file various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine selects storage cloud H satisfying the predefined rules from among storage cloud I and storage cloud H and identifies the synchronizing folder B associated with storage cloud H . In this embodiment the predefined rules state that a read only PDF file is stored in storage cloud H . Thus storage cloud H satisfies the predefined rules . Next the entity file manipulating means copies the PDF file in virtual folder 2 to the indicated synchronizing folder B . In response the virtual folder managing means displays a link to the PDF file in synchronizing folder B in virtual folder 2 . The entity file manipulating means uploads the PDF file in synchronizing folder B to storage cloud H associated with synchronizing folder B . Storage cloud H stores the PDF file uploaded to storage cloud H .

These operations allow a tablet terminal to access storage cloud H and download the PDF file . As a result the user can use the downloaded PDF file in demonstrations to customers.

A time limit may be set for allowing the read only PDF file in the storage cloud H to be browsed. For example the read only PDF file in the storage cloud H may be synchronized with the tablet terminal for a certain amount of time for example for six hours after conversion to a read only PDF file . When the time limit expires the entity file manipulating means in the cloud utilizing terminal deletes the PDF file from the synchronizing folder B . When the PDF file is deleted from synchronizing folder B the PDF file in storage cloud H is deleted at the same time as the file in synchronizing folder B . Also the PDF file downloaded from the tablet terminal is deleted.

In and virtual folder 2 is prepared a link is placed in virtual folder 2 to a presentation file converted into a read only PDF file and the PDF file corresponding to the link is stored in storage cloud H . In another embodiment virtual folder 2 is not prepared. Instead the presentation file corresponding to the link in virtual folder 1 is converted by an extended function of virtual folder 1 to a PDF file and the converted PDF file is stored directly in synchronizing folder B . This is because the purpose of the PDF file is to be browsed on a tablet terminal and the cloud utilizing terminal does not require a view in virtual folder 2 .

The virtual folder managing means detects storage of source code files in a virtual folder such as a group of source code files represented by a tree structure. The file classifying engine extracts attributes from the content of the source code files or any context using for example text analysis or natural language processing. The file classifying engine separates source code not to be disclosed publicly some of and from source code to be disclosed publicly some of and . The entity file manipulating means stores the source code not to be disclosed publicly some of and in the high security folder as and and the source code to be disclosed publicly some of and in the low security folder as and 

The entity file manipulating means references the contents of the entity files various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine and selects high security cloud satisfying the predefined rules from among the high security cloud and the low security cloud for the source code not to be publicly disclosed . Next the entity file manipulating means uploads the entity files in the high security folder to the high security cloud . The high security cloud stores the entity files uploaded to the high security cloud .

The entity file manipulating means references the contents of the entity files various attribute values and the cloud attribute data obtained from the characteristic survey engine and selects low security cloud satisfying the predefined rules from among the high security cloud and the low security cloud for the source code to be publicly disclosed and . Next the entity file manipulating means uploads the entity files and in the low security folder to the low security cloud . The low security cloud stores the entity files uploaded to the low security cloud .

These operations allow a user to automatically store source code in storage clouds with different security levels.

In Step the virtual folder managing means begins the process of monitoring the virtual folders. The process of managing the virtual folders may begin as soon as a virtual folder is created.

In Step the virtual folder managing means begins to monitor the virtual folders as soon as the process begins.

In Step the virtual folder managing means determines whether the processing of a virtual folder is the creation of a new entity file in the virtual folder or the copying or moving of an entity file to the virtual folder. When the processing of a virtual folder is the creation of a new entity file in the virtual folder or the copying or moving of an entity file to the virtual folder the processing advances to Step . When the processing of a virtual folder is not the creation of a new entity file in the virtual folder or the copying or moving of an entity file to the virtual folder the process returns to Step . The copying or moving stores an entity file in the virtual folder.

In Step the file classifying engine acquires the attributes of the entity file referred to below as the file attributes the context of the entity file the attributes of the virtual folder the attributes of the storage clouds or any combination of these.

In Step the virtual folder managing means determines whether the entity file created copied or moved in Step can be placed in the virtual folder based on the acquired file attributes context virtual folder attributes storage cloud attributes or any combination of these. The decision criteria may be managed independently of the predefined rules as properties of the virtual folder for example as a registry or INI file . When the entity file can be placed in the virtual folder the process advances to Step . When the entity file cannot be placed in the virtual folder the process returns to Step .

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means references the predefined rules to determine whether one or more storage clouds satisfies the predefined rules. For the decision method refer to the examples in through .

In Step the virtual folder managing means displays an error message on the screen indicating that the file cannot be placed in the virtual folder and the entity file generated in Step is deleted. The virtual folder managing means then advances to Step where the process is ended.

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means moves the entity file from the virtual folder to the synchronizing folder corresponding to the storage cloud determined in Step . The virtual folder managing means generates a link to the entity file moved to the synchronizing folder. An icon for the link is then displayed in the synchronizing folder.

In Step when a link has been generated in Step or an entity file has been deleted in Step the virtual folder managing means ends the process of monitoring the virtual folders.

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means begins the process of monitoring the synchronizing folders. The process of managing the synchronizing folders may begin as soon as a synchronizing folder is created.

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means begins to monitor the synchronizing folders as soon as the process begins.

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means determines whether the processing of a synchronizing folder is a change in an entity file for example editing in the synchronizing folder. When the processing of a synchronizing folder is a change in an entity file the processing advances to Step . When the processing of a synchronizing folder is not the changing of an entity file the process returns to Step .

In Step the file classifying engine acquires the file attributes the context of the entity file or any combination of the two.

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means references the acquired file attributes the context of the entity file the attributes of the virtual folder the attributes of the storage clouds or any combination of these and determines which storage cloud satisfies the predefined rules. For the decision method see the examples in through .

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means determines whether the storage cloud in which the entity files are stored has been changed. When the storage cloud in which the entity files are stored has been changed the process advances to Step . When the storage cloud in which the entity files are stored has not been changed the process advances to Step .

In Step when the storage cloud for storing an entity file has changed the entity file manipulating monitoring means moves the entity file in the synchronizing folder associated with the original storage cloud to the synchronizing folder associated with the changed storage cloud. The entity file manipulating monitoring means uploads the entity file in the synchronizing folder associated with the changed storage cloud to the changed storage cloud. The virtual folder managing means changes the link in the virtual folder from the synchronizing folder associated with the original storage cloud to the synchronizing folder associated with the changed storage cloud.

In Step when a link has been changed in Step or a storage destination has been changed in Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means ends the process of monitoring the virtual folders.

As shown in the flowchart of compliance with internal policy can be ensured by re evaluating the storage clouds satisfying predefined rules as soon as an entity file is changed for example the content of the entity file is changed . Also content can be better protected in response to the importance of the content of an entity file or a change in the importance the document status of an entity file or a change in the status or the ownership of an entity file or a change in ownership. For example an entity file can be reassigned to a high security cloud when there is an increase in the importance of the entity file and an entity file can be reassigned to a low security cloud when there is a decrease in the importance of the entity file.

Also the flowchart in can be used to re evaluate a storage cloud based for example on access to an entity file access frequency or the current location of a user accessing a first entity file from a cloud utilizing terminal. Also the flowchart in can be used to periodically delete infrequently accessed entity files from storage clouds.

In Step the selecting means starts the process for selecting a storage cloud when the process in Step of has been started.

In Step the selecting means selects the storage cloud to be evaluated from for example a predetermined list. For example the storage cloud to be evaluated is storage cloud A B C D E or F.

In Step the selecting means determines whether or not an entity file in the synchronizing folder contains confidential information. When the entity file contains confidential information the process advances to Step . When the entity file does not contain confidential information the process advances to Step .

In Step when the entity file contains confidential information the selecting means excludes storage clouds with low encryption strength from the candidates. For example storage clouds A and D are excluded.

In Step the selecting means determines whether or not the operating time for the storage cloud includes from 9 AM to 9 PM. When the operating time for the storage cloud includes from 9 AM to 9 PM the process advances to Step . When the operating time for the storage cloud does not include from 9 AM to 9 PM the process advances to Step .

In Step the selecting means when the operating time for the storage cloud includes from 9 AM to 9 PM the storage clouds outside of this operating time are excluded from the candidates. For example storage clouds C and E are excluded.

In Step the selecting means determine whether or not the location of the storage cloud is near the current location of the cloud utilizing terminal . Here near can mean for example a distance within the communication range of the cloud utilizing terminal such as on the national or regional level Asia North America South America Europe etc. . The distance does not have to be a physical distance. It can also reflect routes which take into account network topology. For example the cloud utilizing terminal and the storage cloud may be considered near each other if they are connected to the same backbone. The distance may be considered far if the cloud utilizing terminal cannot reach the storage cloud except via a plurality of gateways. When the location of the storage cloud is considered to be near the current location of the cloud utilizing terminal the process advances to Step . When the location of the storage cloud is not considered to be near the current location of the cloud utilizing terminal the process advances to Step .

In Step when the location of the storage cloud is considered to be near the current location of the cloud utilizing terminal the rank selected priority of the nearby storage cloud is increased by one increment. For example the rank of storage cloud F is increased by one increment.

In Step the selecting means determines whether or not the availability of the storage cloud is equal to or greater than 99 . When the availability of the storage cloud is equal to or greater than 99 the process advances to Step . When the availability of the storage cloud is less than 99 the process advances to Step .

In Step when the availability of the storage cloud is equal to or greater than 99 the selecting means increases the rank selected priority of the 99 available storage cloud by two increments. For example storage clouds B and F are both increased by one increment each.

In Step the selecting means may present the storage cloud with the highest range as the candidate. For example storage cloud F is presented. Also the selecting means may present a plurality of storage clouds as candidates such as two storage clouds. When a plurality of storage clouds is selected entity files may be stored in all of the selected storage clouds the entity files may be distributed among a plurality of storage clouds or a single entity file may be divided and stored in a plurality of storage clouds. The risk diversification may be achieved by storing the entity files in a plurality of storage clouds. Because the user does not have to be aware of which entity file is stored in which storage cloud the user also does not have to be aware that a plurality of storage clouds has been selected.

The storage cloud selection logic shown in is only an example. The selection process can also be performed based on other characteristics such as the condition monthly fee and performance of the storage cloud or the update frequency of the entity file. For example if an entity file is hardly every updated it can be stored on a storage cloud with low availability. However if the entity file is updated daily it should be stored on a storage cloud with high availability.

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means starts the process of automatically switching storage clouds. The process of automatically switching storage clouds is typically performed periodically. Also the process of automatically switching storage clouds can be triggered when the cloud utilizing terminal logs in or when the cloud utilizing terminal is connected to the network.

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means acquires the SLA of the storage cloud used for storage. The SLA can be acquired using the storage cloud querying means or the characteristic survey engine .

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means determines whether or not the SLA of the storage cloud used for storage has been updated. When the SLA has been updated the process advances to Step . When the SLA has not been updated the process advances to Step .

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means selects an entity file in the synchronizing folder.

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means acquires the file attributes of the selected entity file the context of the entity file or a combination of the two.

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means references the attributes or context of the acquired file and re evaluates the storage cloud used for storage to satisfy the predefined rules.

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means determines whether or not the storage cloud in which the entity file is to be stored has changed. When the storage cloud used for storage has been changed the process advances to Step . When the storage cloud used for storage has not changed the process advances to Step .

In Step when the storage cloud used for storage has been changed the entity file manipulating monitoring means moves the entity file in the synchronizing folder associated with the original storage cloud to the synchronizing folder associated with the changed storage cloud. The entity file manipulating monitoring means uploads the entity file in the synchronizing folder associated with the changed storage cloud to the changed storage cloud. Also the entity file manipulating monitoring means changes the link in the virtual folder from the synchronizing cloud associated with the original storage cloud to the synchronizing folder associated with the changed storage cloud.

In Step when the link in Step has been changed or the storage destination in Step has not been changed the entity file manipulating monitoring means determines whether or not there are any entity files in the virtual folder which have not undergone the processing in Steps unprocessed entity files . When there is an unprocessed entity file the process advances to Step . When all of the files have been processed that is there are no unprocessed entity files the process advances to Step .

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means ends the process of automatically switching storage clouds.

The process of automatically switching storage clouds shown in may be periodically evaluated for each individual storage cloud used for storage.

As shown in the flowchart of compliance with internal policy can be ensured by automatically switching storage clouds as soon as the SLA of a storage cloud has changed. Also the flowchart of can be used to rearrange entity files in slower less expensive storage clouds in order to reduce costs.

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means begins redundant placement of an entity file in a plurality of storage clouds. The process of redundant placement of an entity file in a plurality of storage clouds may begin as soon as the cloud utilizing terminal starts up. This is because constant monitoring of redundant placement is desirable during operation of the cloud utilizing terminal . Also the process of redundant placement of an entity file in a plurality of storage clouds may begin periodically for example at intervals of several minutes.

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means starts monitoring synchronizing folders as soon as the processing starts.

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means determines whether or not a file in a synchronizing folder has been changed for example edited . When a file has been changed the processing of the synchronizing folder advances to Step . When a file has not been changed the processing of the synchronizing folder returns to Step .

In Step the file classifying engine acquires the attributes of the file the context of the file or a combination of the two. The entity file manipulating monitoring means references the acquired file attributes or context to determine a storage cloud for storage which satisfies the predefined rules. This may be the original storage cloud for redundant storage the first storage site or another storage cloud for redundant storage the second storage site . When necessary the entity file manipulating monitoring means changes the storage cloud used to store the file. For changing the storage cloud used to store files see the flowchart shown in .

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means determines whether or not redundancy measures are required for a storage cloud. Whether or not redundancy measures are required depends on for example the importance of the content the document status or the document ownership of the entity file in the cloud utilizing terminal. The attributes or context of the entity file in the cloud utilizing terminal the attributes of the virtual folder and the attribute data of the clouds are identified in accordance with the predefined rules. Examples of document status include draft awaiting approval approved and expired. Examples of document ownership include regular employee manager division head and administrative department. Content importance document status and document ownership are included in the properties of a document file or added by an outside document management system. When redundancy measures are required the process advances to Step . When redundancy measures are not required the process advances to Step where it comes to an end.

In Step when redundancy measures are required the entity file manipulating monitoring means determines whether the redundant file requires a format conversion. When a format conversion is required the process advances to Step . When a format conversion is not required the process advances to Step .

In Step when a format conversion is required the entity file manipulating monitoring means converts the format of the redundant file to the format indicated in the predefined rules. The format may have to be changed in order to enable different types of devices for example different types of cloud utilizing terminals to access the same data. Sometimes storage clouds only accept data in a certain format. Also sometimes completed documents will be made available to the public in read only format.

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means duplicates an entity file to the synchronizing file associated with the storage cloud for storing redundant files second storage site from the synchronizing file associated with the storage cloud for storing original files first storage site . The entity file manipulating monitoring means then uploads the entity file in the synchronizing folder associated with the storage cloud for storing redundant files second storage site to the storage cloud for storing redundant files second storage site . When the upload has been completed the process advances to Step .

In Step the entity file manipulating monitoring means ends the process of placing entity files redundantly in a plurality of storage clouds.

As shown in the flowchart of a file can be distributed or duplicated to a plurality of storage clouds depending for example on the importance of its content in order to ensure redundancy.

