---

title: Single layer touchscreen with ground insertion
abstract: A sensor array that has first electrodes, second electrodes and third electrodes formed from a single layer of conductive material and interleaved without intersecting one another, in which each first electrode is coupled with at least one of the second electrodes via a mutual capacitance. Some of the third electrodes are disposed between the first electrodes and the second electrodes. All electrodes are interleaved without intersecting one another.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09391610&OS=09391610&RS=09391610
owner: PARADE TECHNOLOGIES, LTD.
number: 09391610
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140919
---
The present application claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 004 324 which was filed on May 29 2014 and which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This disclosure generally relates to the field of touch sensing devices and in particular to insertion electrodes in capacitive touch sensing arrays.

Computing devices such as notebook computers personal digital assistants mobile communication devices portable entertainment devices e.g. handheld video games multimedia players etc. and set top boxes e.g. digital cable boxes digital video disc DVD players etc. may include user interface devices that facilitate interaction between a user and the computing device. One type of user interface device that has become common is a touch sensing device or touch input device that operates by way of capacitive sensing. A touch sensing device may be embodied as a touchscreen touch sensing pad touch sensing slider or touch sensing buttons and may include a touch sensor comprising an array of capacitive sensor elements. Capacitive sensing typically involves scan operations that periodically measure changes in capacitance associated with the capacitive sensor elements to determine a presence position and or movement of a conductive object e.g. a stylus a user s finger etc. relative to the touch sensor.

Touch sensors are an expensive part of a touch sensing device or the user interface system thereof. One reason for the high manufacturing cost of touch sensors is that conventional sensors use either multiple layers of electrode materials formed on multiple substrates or a single substrate with a series of jumpers to form electrical connection between the individual electrode segments and to insulate them from the other electrodes that intersect them. One way to reduce the high cost of touch sensors is to route the trace portions or segments of electrodes tightly together on the active area of a single substrate without the use of jumpers . However this type of sensor construction leads to increased capacitive cross coupling between the electrodes e.g. especially in response to a conductive object touch thereby causing false touches inaccuracy and poor touch response linearity all of which limit the functionality of the touch sensing device and or lead to poor user experience.

The following description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems components methods and so forth in order to provide a good understanding of several embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in a simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the techniques described herein. Thus the specific details set forth hereinafter are merely exemplary. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

Reference in the description to an embodiment one embodiment an example embodiment some embodiments and various embodiments means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment s is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. Further the appearances of the phrases an embodiment one embodiment an example embodiment some embodiments and various embodiments in various places in the description do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment s .

The description includes references to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the detailed description. The drawings show illustrations in accordance with exemplary embodiments. These embodiments which may also be referred to herein as examples are described in enough detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the embodiments of the claimed subject matter described herein. The embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized or structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the claimed subject matter. It should be understood that the embodiments described herein are not intended to limit the scope of the subject matter but rather to enable one skilled in the art to practice make and or use the subject matter.

Described herein are various embodiments of techniques for designs of a touch sensor with mutual capacitance and or self capacitance electrodes that are arranged in the same e.g. single layer of the substrate of the touch sensor. Unless expressly specified otherwise touch sensors are also referred to herein as sensor arrays touch sensor arrays touch panels touch sensor panels and the like.

As used herein contact refers to a physical touch of a conductive object e.g. a stylus a user s finger and the like on a stack up including a touch sensor and or to a hover in which the conductive object is sufficiently proximate to affect the sensor elements of the touch sensor without being in physical touch with the touch surface of the sensor. As used herein sensor element also referred to as unit cell refers to a discrete unit or location area e.g. adjacency of electrodes from which a measurement or signal can be obtained that is separate and distinct from measurements signals obtained from other units or location areas in the touch sensor.

In single layer touch sensors that use interleaved also referred to as interlaced electrodes without jumpers a conductive object may affect portions also referred to as segments from multiple electrodes thereby causing a change in the capacitance even of electrodes that are not directly under the contact by the conductive object and that should not register or otherwise detect the contact. Such parasitic signal coupling outside of the actual touch sensing area affected by the contact causes a parasitic signal increase or a parasitic signal decrease e.g. depending on the type of sensing mechanism used by the touch sensor . Such parasitic signal increase or decrease in one or more sensor elements of a touch sensor is referred to herein as a tail effect and a tail effect signal .

In a capacitive touch sensing system utilizing a capacitive touch sensor array costs may be reduced and manufacturing yield increased by constructing the touch sensor array from a single layer of conductive material. For a single layer sensor array pattern the pattern may include a single layer of copper indium tin oxide ITO or other conductive material without any overlapping portions. In one embodiment such a single layer of conductive material may include different types of conductive materials. For example part of the single layer may be constructed from ITO while another part may be constructed from copper. In one embodiment substantially all portions of the single layer of conductive material may lie substantially on a single plane or surface. For example the single layer of conductive material may conform to the surface of a substrate such as glass or plastic. An embodiment of a single layer sensor array pattern may further maximize its sensitivity to capacitance changes by minimizing the area occupied by routing channels that connect the sensor electrodes to the edge of the capacitive sensor array.

In one embodiment a single layer sensor pattern may have a reduced number of electrodes in order to reduce the space occupied by the routing channel in such an embodiment the resolution of the sensor pattern may be maintained by subdividing some of the electrodes. In one embodiment this arrangement results in a capacitive sensor array that includes a first set of sensor electrodes each made up of one or more large subelements and a second set of sensor electrodes each made up of one or more smaller subelements. In one embodiment each of the large sensor electrode subelements may be capacitively coupled with two or more of the smaller subelements. Thus the resolution of the sensor array is increased at least in part because a mutual capacitance can be separately measured between the large subelement and either of the two smaller subelements.

In one embodiment a capacitance sensor coupled with a capacitive sensor array as described above may be used to scan the capacitive sensor array by measuring the self capacitances associated with each sensor electrode or the mutual capacitances between pairs of sensor electrodes. The capacitance sensor may then transmit the measured capacitance values to a host where the capacitance values may be further processed to determine for example locations of fingers or other conductive objects near or touching the surface of the capacitive sensor array. In one embodiment the host compensates for the capacitance differences between the regions having different patterns of conductive traces.

In one embodiment the sensor array includes sensor electrodes N where N is a positive integer that are disposed as a two dimensional matrix also referred to as an XY matrix . The sensor array is coupled to pins N of the processing device via one or more analog buses transporting multiple signals. In this embodiment each sensor electrode or electrode N is represented as a capacitor.

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor may include a relaxation oscillator or other means to convert a capacitance into a measured value. The capacitance sensor may also include a counter or timer to measure the oscillator output. The processing device may further include software components to convert the count value e.g. capacitance value into a sensor electrode detection decision also referred to as switch detection decision or relative magnitude. It should be noted that there are various known methods for measuring capacitance such as current versus voltage phase shift measurement resistor capacitor charge timing capacitive bridge divider charge transfer successive approximation sigma delta modulators charge accumulation circuits field effect mutual capacitance frequency shift or other capacitance measurement algorithms. It should be noted however instead of evaluating the raw counts relative to a threshold the capacitance sensor may be evaluating other measurements to determine the user interaction. For example in the capacitance sensor having a sigma delta modulator the capacitance sensor is evaluating the ratio of pulse widths of the output instead of the raw counts being over or under a certain threshold.

In one embodiment the processing device further includes processing logic . Operations of the processing logic may be implemented in firmware alternatively it may be implemented in hardware or software. The processing logic may receive signals from the capacitance sensor and determine the state of the sensor array such as whether an object e.g. a finger is detected on or in proximity to the sensor array e.g. determining the presence of the object where the object is detected on the sensor array e.g. determining the location of the object tracking the motion of the object or other information related to an object detected at the touch sensor.

In another embodiment instead of performing the operations of the processing logic in the processing device the processing device may send the raw data or partially processed data to the host . The host as illustrated in may include decision logic that performs some or all of the operations of the processing logic . Operations of the decision logic may be implemented in firmware hardware software or a combination thereof. The host may include a high level Application Programming Interface API in applications that perform routines on the received data such as compensating for sensitivity differences other compensation algorithms baseline update routines start up and or initialization routines interpolation operations or scaling operations. The operations described with respect to the processing logic may be implemented in the decision logic the applications or in other hardware software and or firmware external to the processing device . In some other embodiments the processing device is the host .

In another embodiment the processing device may also include a non sensing actions block . This block may be used to process and or receive transmit data to and from the host . For example additional components may be implemented to operate with the processing device along with the sensor array e.g. keyboard keypad mouse trackball LEDs displays or other peripheral devices .

The processing device may reside on a common carrier substrate such as for example an integrated circuit IC die substrate or a multi chip module substrate. Alternatively the components of the processing device may be one or more separate integrated circuits and or discrete components. In one embodiment the processing device may be the Programmable System on a Chip PSoC processing device developed by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation San Jose Calif. Alternatively the processing device may be one or more other processing devices known by those of ordinary skill in the art such as a microprocessor or central processing unit a controller special purpose processor digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable device. In an alternative embodiment for example the processing device may be a network processor having multiple processors including a core unit and multiple micro engines. Additionally the processing device may include any combination of general purpose processing device s and special purpose processing device s .

In one embodiment the electronic system is implemented in a device that includes the touch sensing surface as the user interface such as handheld electronics portable telephones cellular telephones notebook computers personal computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks keyboards televisions remote controls monitors handheld multimedia devices handheld video players gaming devices control panels of a household or industrial appliances or other computer peripheral or input devices. Alternatively the electronic system may be used in other types of devices. It should be noted that the components of electronic system may include all the components described above. Alternatively electronic system may include only some of the components described above or include additional components not listed herein.

Capacitance sensor includes multiplexer control demultiplexer and multiplexer clock generator signal generator demodulation circuit and analog to digital converter ADC . ADC is further coupled with touch coordinate converter . Touch coordinate converter may be implemented in the processing logic .

The transmit and receive electrodes in the electrode matrix may be arranged so that each of the transmit electrodes overlap and cross each of the receive electrodes such as to form an array of intersections while maintaining galvanic isolation from each other. Thus each transmit electrode may be capacitively coupled with each or more of the receive electrodes. For example transmit electrode is capacitively coupled with receive electrode at the point where transmit electrode and receive electrode overlap.

Clock generator supplies a clock signal to signal generator which produces a TX signal to be supplied to the transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment the signal generator includes a set of switches that operate according to the clock signal from clock generator . The switches may generate a TX signal by periodically connecting the output of signal generator to a first voltage and then to a second voltage wherein said first and second voltages are different.

The output of signal generator is connected with demultiplexer which allows the TX signal to be applied to any of the M transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment multiplexer control controls demultiplexer so that the TX signal is applied to each transmit electrode in a controlled sequence. Demultiplexer may also be used to ground float or connect an alternate signal to the other transmit electrodes to which the TX signal is not currently being applied. In an alternate embodiment the TX signal may be presented in a true form to a subset of the transmit electrodes and in complement form to a second subset of the transmit electrodes wherein there is no overlap in members of the first and second subset of transmit electrodes .

Because of the capacitive coupling between the transmit and receive electrodes the TX signal applied to each transmit electrode induces a current within each of the receive electrodes. For instance when the TX signal is applied to transmit electrode through demultiplexer the TX signal induces an RX signal on the receive electrodes in matrix . The RX signal on each of the receive electrodes can then be measured in sequence by using multiplexer to connect each of the N receive electrodes to demodulation circuit in sequence.

The mutual capacitance associated with each intersection between a TX electrode and an RX electrode can be sensed by selecting every available combination of TX electrode and an RX electrode using demultiplexer and multiplexer . To improve performance multiplexer may also be segmented to allow more than one of the receive electrodes in matrix to be routed to additional demodulation circuits . In an optimized configuration wherein there is a 1 to 1 correspondence of instances of demodulation circuit with receive electrodes multiplexer may not be present in the system.

When an object such as a finger approaches the electrode matrix the object causes a change in the measured mutual capacitance between only some of the electrodes. For example if a finger is placed near the intersection of transmit electrode and receive electrode the presence of the finger will decrease the charge coupled between electrodes and . Thus the location of the finger on the touchpad can be determined by identifying the one or more receive electrodes having a decrease in measured mutual capacitance in addition to identifying the transmit electrode to which the TX signal was applied at the time the decrease in capacitance was measured on the one or more receive electrodes.

By determining the mutual capacitances associated with each intersection of electrodes in the matrix the presence and locations of one or more conductive objects may be determined. The determination may be sequential in parallel or may occur more frequently at commonly used electrodes.

In alternative embodiments other methods for detecting the presence of a finger or other conductive object may be used where the finger or conductive object causes an increase in measured capacitance at one or more electrodes which may be arranged in a grid or other pattern. For example a finger placed near an electrode of a capacitive sensor may introduce an additional capacitance to ground that increases the total capacitance between the electrode and ground. The location of the finger can be determined based on the locations of one or more electrodes at which a change in measured capacitance is detected.

The induced current signal is integrated by demodulation circuit . The rectified current output by demodulation circuit can then be filtered and converted to a digital code by ADC .

A series of such digital codes measured from adjacent sensor or intersections may be converted to touch coordinates indicating a position of an input on touch sensor array by touch coordinate converter . The touch coordinates may then be used to detect gestures or perform other functions by the processing logic .

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor can be configured to detect multiple touches. One technique for the detection and location resolution of multiple touches uses a two axis implementation one axis to support rows and another axis to support columns. Additional axes such as a diagonal axis implemented on the surface using additional layers can allow resolution of additional touches.

The sensor array illustrated in includes sensor electrodes arranged in a diamond pattern. Specifically the sensor electrodes of sensor array are arranged in a single solid diamond SSD pattern. illustrates a capacitive sensor array having an alternate embodiment of the diamond pattern which is the dual solid diamond DSD pattern. Each of the sensor electrodes of capacitive sensor array includes two rows or columns of electrically connected diamond shaped traces. DSD pattern has advantages over SSD pattern but it also increases the number of bridges such as bridge used to create the pattern which may result in decreased manufacturing yield. The increased number of bridges may also be visible if metal bridges are used.

Touch screen assembly includes an LCD over which a glass may be positioned. In one embodiment sensor pattern may be constructed on the surface of glass that faces the LCD . In one embodiment an air gap may separate the glass from the LCD .

The sensor array pattern includes a first set of sensor electrodes each made up of one or more large subelements such as subelements and . The sensor array pattern may further include a second set of sensor electrodes each made up of one or more small subelements such as subelements and . In one embodiment the small subelements are in general smaller than the large subelements.

In one embodiment the surface area of the sensor array pattern may be considered as being divided into a grid of N M unit cells such as unit cell . The grid of unit cells thus has N rows of unit cells and M columns of unit cells. The area contained within unit cell includes the large subelement and two smaller subelements and . In an alternative embodiment the number of small subelements may vary from 1 to k which k is a positive integer larger than 1. In one embodiment in unit cell small subelement is electrically connected to other small subelements such as in the same column region via routing trace . Similarly small subelement is electrically connected to other small subelements such as in the same column region via routing trace . Large subelements such as subelements etc. are connected to one another in various configurations via routing traces etc. Generally electrical routing traces contribute to electromagnetic field distribution and thus modify mutual capacitance measurements in their adjacent area. In one embodiment some routing traces such as routing trace is positioned between large element and small element and thus has more significant effect on the mutual capacitance measurement between large element and small element .

In one embodiment a capacitance sensor such as capacitance sensor as illustrated in may be configured to measure mutual capacitances between the large subelement and the small subelements and . Thus for the unit cell the capacitance sensor may measure two mutual capacitance values. In one embodiment each unit cell includes the regions of greatest capacitive coupling between the large subelement and the k small subelements. These regions of greatest capacitive coupling are the areas at which a mutual capacitance between the large subelement and small subelement may be most influenced by the presence of a conductive object. With reference to for example the unit cell includes a first region of greatest capacitive coupling between the large subelement and the small subelement and also includes a second region of greatest capacitive coupling between the large subelement and the small subelement . In one embodiment routing trace is positioned in the second region and modifies the mutual capacitance measurement therein. On the other hand for example the mutual capacitance measurement at first region receives much less influence from routing trace . As a result there may be an asymmetry of mutual capacitance measurements amongst different regions of greatest capacitive coupling throughout sensor array pattern .

Thus the resulting matrix of N M measured mutual capacitance measurements may be transformed via a matrix transformation to generate a transformed matrix storing the capacitance values in positions that correspond to the actual locations of the sensing regions. In one embodiment an N M matrix of capacitance values may be transformed into a N k M k matrix.

In one embodiment the surface area of the capacitive sensor array pattern may be considered as being divided into a number of column regions. In one embodiment the area is divisible into two sets of column regions where each column region in the first set includes the large sensor electrode subelements and each column region in the second set includes the small sensor electrode subelements. In one embodiment each of the N M unit cells would thus overlap one of the first set of column regions and one of the second set of column regions forming M unit cell columns. For example unit cell overlaps both of column regions and . In one embodiment routing traces connecting large subelements such as subelement etc. may also affect mutual capacitance measurements of regions of greatest capacitive coupling in adjacent unit cell columns. In another embodiment column regions can be interchangeable with row regions.

In one embodiment capacitive sensor array pattern includes a first set of sensor electrodes each made up of one or more large subelements and may further include a second set of sensor electrodes each made up of one or more small subelements and . In one embodiment each of the small subelements is approximately equal in size with each of the other small subelements and . In one embodiment each of the large subelements is substantially equal in size with each of the other large subelements . In one embodiment subelements that are substantially equal in size are designed to be nominally equal in size but may have variations in size due to manufacturing processes.

As compared to the sensor array pattern in the sensor array pattern may include a third set of sensor electrodes or insertion electrodes as illustrated in . In one embodiment third electrodes may be disposed within each or at least some of the N M unit cells. For example in adjacent unit cell and unit cell in column region . In another embodiment third electrodes may also be positioned between adjacent unit cells. In one embodiment the first second and third set of sensor electrodes are formed from a single layer of conductive material such as ITO.

One object of introducing a third or an insertion electrode is to balance the asymmetry in mutual capacitance values measured between a large subelement and multiple smaller subelements due to the effect of routing traces as previously described in . In one embodiment the mutual capacitance values measured are translated into signal readout of the touch controller. The signal asymmetry produces panel response non uniformity. As a result accuracy of finger coordinate detection sensor accuracy and linearity may be adversely affected. Besides the introduction of the third electrodes helps reduce the signal disparity effect. The third electrodes also create more coupling between the device ground and the touch object. Furthermore the third electrodes reduce the total sensor electrode area resulting in less parasitic coupling. The third electrodes also allow larger maximum panel driving signal TX frequency which is the panel speed.

As discussed the sensor array pattern may be divisible into a grid of N M unit cells. Alternatively the sensor array pattern may be divisible into M 2 column regions and N row regions. In one embodiment where the surface area of the sensor array is substantially rectangular each of the M 2 column regions may extend from a top edge of the surface area of the capacitive sensor array to a bottom edge of the surface area. In one embodiment each unit cell such as unit cell overlaps two column regions and . With reference to column regions to M and to M interleave with each other without intercepting or any overlapping portions. In one embodiment column region which may have a similar configuration to other column regions to M includes a first set of sensor electrodes each made up of one or more large subelements such as subelements . Column region which may have a similar configuration to other column regions to M includes a second set of sensor electrodes each made up of one or more small subelements such as subelements to N and to N . In one embodiment subelements to N and to N have no overlapping portions and may be electrically isolated from each other. In one alternative embodiment the positions and configurations of column regions to M and to M may be interchangeable. In another alternative embodiment rows and columns may also be interchangeable.

In one embodiment a third set of sensor electrodes each made up of one or more insertion subelements such as subelements and may take shape of a rectangle and be inserted at least partially within some or all of the large subelements such as subelements . There are no overlapping portions between subelements to N and subelements to N and to N . In one embodiment other third electrodes such as subelement may take shape of an elongated electrode and be positioned between column regions to M and to M . In another embodiment third electrodes such as subelement may take shape of an elongated electrode and be disposed between unit cells of different unit cell columns. In yet another embodiment third electrodes may take shape of an elongated electrode and be disposed between unit cells of different unit cell rows. In one embodiment some or all of the insertion subelements may be electrically coupled together by a switch or other type of connection during the sensing process. In one embodiment this connection may be implemented in the capacitance sensor.

With reference to in one embodiment subelement may take the shape of a hollow rectangle that has two T shape apertures and positioned therein. T shape apertures and may or may not be identical. In one embodiment subelements and are inserted within T shape apertures and respectively of subelement . Each of the T shape apertures and has an opening and to allow subelements and to connect to subelement via connecting traces and respectively. In one embodiment subelement may connect some or all insertion subelements to N and to N of the same column region electrically. In one embodiment adjacent to unit cell elongated insertion subelement is positioned in the space between unit cell and unit cells in the adjacent unit cell columns.

With reference to unit cell includes a region of greatest capacitive coupling between large subelement and small subelement . Similarly unit cell also includes a region of greatest capacitive coupling between large subelement and small subelement . These regions of greatest capacitive coupling and are the areas at which a mutual capacitance between the large subelement and each of the small subelements may be most influenced by the presence of a conductive object. Thus for unit cell the capacitance sensor may measure two mutual capacitance values or measurements as large subelement is capacitively coupled with small subelement and small subelement respectively. Generally the capacitance sensor may measure k mutual capacitance values or measurements including one mutual capacitance value for each pairing of the large subelement with each of k small subelements in a unit cell. In one embodiment insertion subelements and and are adjacent to or at least partially positioned in these regions of greatest capacitive coupling and to equalize sensing signal responses.

In one embodiment third electrodes or insertion subelements are connected by a switch or other types of connection to a capacitance sensor controller as in and one another. Optionally third electrodes may be coupled to the first electrodes and or the second electrodes and . In one embodiment third electrodes are coupled to ground a ground node or chip ground to balance the asymmetry of mutual capacitance measurements between the first electrodes and the second electrodes and . In another embodiment third electrodes are coupled to a sensor controller such as processing device as in to compensate the field distribution change when sensor array is in mutual capacitance mode. In yet another embodiment third electrodes are coupled to a sensor driver such as signal generator to reduce self capacitance and improve water rejection algorithm in self capacitance mode. In yet another embodiment third electrodes are coupled to a receive RX sense circuit such as demodulation circuit . In yet another embodiment third electrodes are coupled to a transmit TX signal driver in mutual capacitance mode. In yet another embodiment third electrodes are selectively coupled to large subelements and or small subelements via electrical coupling. In yet another embodiment third electrodes are coupled to a shield signal.

In one embodiment small subelements to N and to N in the same column region are electrically isolated from one another. With reference to small subelement are coupled electrically to other small subelements to N in the same column region via routing trace . Similarly small subelement is coupled electrically to other small subelements to N via routing trace . In one embodiment routing traces and have a width that is less than the width of small subelements to N and to N . Moreover routing traces and extend in a direction which is parallel to all column regions to M of the sensor array pattern . In one embodiment traces and are positioned on the opposite sides of small subelements to N and to N respectively. As illustrated in trace which connects small subelements to N is positioned between small subelement and large subelement . In general electrical traces such as routing trace contribute in electromagnetic field distribution and modify mutual capacitance between small subelement and large subelement at the region of greatest capacitive coupling . As a result trace contributes to the signal asymmetry between adjacent unit cells such as unit cells and unit cells as previously discussed. In one embodiment insertion subelements and which are adjacent or in the regions of greatest capacitive coupling and may help to equalize sensing signal responses. The effect of trace on the signal asymmetry is considered smaller due to its routing configuration and the distance away from the region of greatest capacitive coupling . In one embodiment subelements and are connected to a ground node when sensor array is in mutual capacitance mode to reduce the asymmetry of capacitance measurements of different regions of greatest capacitive coupling such as regions and . In other embodiments the width of subelement the size shape position of subelements and are adjustable in order to minimize signal asymmetry of sensor array .

In one embodiment all unit cells within the grid of N M unit cells of the sensor array pattern have the same structure as in unit cell or unit cell . In another embodiment some unit cells may have a different configuration. For example some unit cells may have a different number of large subelement s small subelement s and or insertion subelement s . Moreover sizes shapes and orientation of insertion subelements may be different in alternative embodiments.

In the foregoing embodiments various modifications can be made for example row sensor electrodes and column sensor electrodes may be interchanged and row or column sensor electrodes may be used as either TX or RX sensor electrodes. Similarly sensor electrodes comprising large subelements may be used as TX or RX sensor electrodes and sensor electrodes comprising small subelements may be used as RX or TX sensor electrodes. Furthermore in some embodiments intersections between row and column sensor electrodes may be replaced with conductive bridges. For example bridges may be used to electrically connect portions of sensor electrodes when both row and column sensor electrodes are constructed from a single layer of conductive material. As described herein conductive electrodes that are electrically connected or electrically coupled may be coupled such that a relatively low resistance conductive path exists between the conductive electrodes.

In some embodiments a touch sensor may be formed by laying out the sensor electrodes using alternative conductive materials such as metal mesh. In such embodiments the sensor electrodes are formed by disposing metal mesh electrodes on PET substrate. In alternative embodiments the metal mesh sensor electrodes may be disposed on glass substrate. In other embodiments the sensor electrodes may be formed with silver nano wires on PET or silver nano wire on glass substrate. In other embodiments a touch sensor may be formed by bonding a glass or other transparent insulating lens onto another glass with the sensor electrode pattern disposed on. In yet other embodiments the touch sensor may be formed by bonding glass or other transparent insulating material onto a sheet of PET containing the sensor pattern.

In some embodiments a single layer structure may be used in the active area of the touch sensor while a multi layer structure may be used in the bezel or other non sensing portions of the touch sensor for routing the secondary traces. Such multi layer secondary routing allows the repeated use of the secondary traces so that the touch sensor uses the minimum number of traces and the minimum number of pins on the electronic system which drives the touch sensor thereby reducing the associated manufacturing costs.

In some embodiments the techniques described herein may be used not only for mutual capacitance touch sensors but also for touch sensors that can operate in self capacitance mode and or in mixed mutual capacitance self capacitance mode. Such application of the techniques described herein is possible for self capacitance touch sensors because they also provide multiple sensor elements that can be measured and that can produce a signal profile that can be analyzed.

Various embodiments of the techniques for design of single layer touch sensors described herein may include or use various operations. These operations may be performed by hardware components software firmware or a combination thereof. As used herein the term coupled to may mean coupled directly or indirectly through one or more intervening components. Any of the signals provided over various buses described herein may be time multiplexed with other signals and provided over one or more common buses. Additionally the interconnection between circuit components or blocks may be shown as buses or as single signal lines. Each of the buses may alternatively be one or more single signal lines and each of the single signal lines may alternatively be buses.

Certain embodiments may include or use operations that are implemented as a computer program product that may include instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium e.g. such as volatile storage and or non volatile storage. These instructions may be used to program a touch sensing device that includes one or more general purpose or special purpose processors e.g. such as Central Processing Units or CPUs or equivalents thereof e.g. such as processing cores processing engines microcontrollers and the like so that when executed by the processor s or the equivalents thereof the instructions cause the device to perform the desired operations. A computer readable medium may also include one or more mechanisms for storing or transmitting information in a form e.g. software processing application that is readable by a machine e.g. such as a device or a computer . The non transitory computer readable storage medium may include but is not limited to electromagnetic storage medium e.g. floppy disks hard disks and the like optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or another now known or later developed type of medium that is suitable for storing information.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

