---

title: Water dispensing and display apparatus
abstract: An apparatus for dispensing liquid, such as water, with the dispensing of the liquid associated with a media presentation, for example, a video presentation, viewable on a monitor of the apparatus by consumers proximate to the apparatus, including the consumer to whom the water is being dispensed, is disclosed. The media presentation begins upon the dispensing of the water, and continues until it is stopped or completes (ends).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09485530&OS=09485530&RS=09485530
owner: WATER MEDIA INTERNATIONAL LTD
number: 09485530
owner_city: Netanya
owner_country: IL
publication_date: 20140731
---
This application is related to and claims priority from commonly owned Russian Utility Model Registration No. 2014110198 entitled Video cooler with remote control filed 18 Mar. 2014 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention in some embodiments thereof relates to systems and methods for dispensing water or other liquids while providing presentable media to the consumers in proximity to the dispensing system.

Water dispensing machines continue to grow in both popularity and sophistication as refreshment alternatives to traditional soft drink vending machines. This is because the water being dispensed is a healthier alternative when compared to soft drinks with their high sugar and caloric content.

According to some embodiments of the present invention there is provided an apparatus for dispensing liquid such as water with the dispensing of the liquid associated with a media presentation for example a video presentation viewable on a monitor of the apparatus by consumers proximate to the apparatus and including the consumer to whom the water is being dispensed. The media presentation begins upon the dispensing of the water and continues until it is stopped or completes ends .

Embodiments of methods and systems of the present invention are directed to a computer implemented method for distributing media presentations and monitoring activity of a button or the like on a water dispensing machine or apparatus being activated so as to activate a specific media presentation for example a video presentation. These button activations tied to display of the video presentations are reported to a system computer which can perform analytics on this data used by the information provider advertiser associated with the media presentation displayed by the water dispensing machine.

Some embodiments of the present invention are directed to a dispensing apparatus comprising a display and a controller for example a logic computer control unit. The controller is for detecting at least one event and for selecting content from content storage media for displaying on the display in response to the detection of the at least one event.

Optionally the dispensing apparatus includes a water dispensing system in electronic communication with the controller.

Optionally controller is configured for detecting the at least one event comprising water being dispensed from the water dispensing system.

Optionally the dispensing apparatus additionally comprises sensors for detecting at least one of people in proximity to the machine and motion of people around the apparatus the sensors in electronic communication with the controller.

Optionally the dispensing apparatus is such that the controller is configured for detecting the at least one event comprising at least one of people in proximity to the apparatus and motion of people around the apparatus.

Optionally the dispensing apparatus is such that it includes a camera in electronic communication with the controller for recognizing at least one person as at least one of a man woman adult child male and female.

Optionally the controller is configured for detecting the at least one event associated with the camera comprising at least one a man woman adult child male and female.

Optionally the content storage media is separate from the controller and the content storage media is in electronic communication with the controller.

Optionally the controller is configured for linking to a communications network for example the Internet.

Optionally the controller records data associated with each detected event and the content associated with each detected event.

Optionally the controller transmits the recorded data associated with each detected event and the content associated with each detected event over the communications network.

Optionally the controller is configured for detecting a plurality of contemporaneous said events and for selecting content from content storage media for displaying on the display in response to the detection of the plurality of contemporaneous said events.

Other embodiments are directed to a system comprising a computer system which comprises a storage media and a processor in communication with the storage media. The processor is programmed to perform the machine executable instructions in the storage media including receiving data associated with at least one event detected by the at least one remote apparatus and content displayed by the at least one remote apparatus in response to the detected at least one event and organizing the data to be available to the provider of the content over the network.

Optionally computer system additionally comprises a content storage unit. Additionally and optionally the processor in communication with the storage media is programmed to perform the machine executable instructions in the storage media. These instructions additionally include transmitting content from the content storage unit to at least one remote apparatus for displaying the content contemporaneous with the at least one event over the communications network.

Optionally the at least one event of the machine executable instruction includes a plurality of events.

Optionally the system additionally comprises at least one remote apparatus wherein the events are selected from at least one of the dispensing of water the recognition of at least one person as at least one of a man woman adult child male female the detection of people in proximity to the remote apparatus and the detection of motion of people around the remote apparatus by the remote apparatus the remote apparatus in electronic communication with the computer system over the communications network.

Other embodiments are directed to a method for providing content. The method comprises detecting at least one event obtaining content for display on a display apparatus in response to the detected at least one event and associated with the detected at least one event and displaying the content on the display apparatus contemporaneously with event having been detected.

Optionally the display apparatus includes a water dispensing system in electrical communication with a controller and the at least one event includes dispensing of water from the water dispensing system.

Optionally the display apparatus includes a camera and a sensor in electrical communication with the controller and the at least one event includes a plurality of events including the dispensing of water and at least one of recognition of people from the camera and the presence of one or more people proximate to the machine from the sensor.

Optionally the obtaining content for display on the display apparatus in response to the detected plurality of events and associated with the detected plurality of events includes selecting the content for display in accordance with the dispensing of water event and the at least one other event from the camera and the sensor.

Other embodiments are directed to a method for providing content. The method comprises monitoring the status of at least one machine which presents content in response to an event detected by the at least one machine over a communications network receiving data corresponding to content presentations in response to the detection of an event and performing analytics on the received data for each content provider associated with the content presented in response to the event detected by the at least one machine.

Optionally the machine is a water dispensing machine and the event includes an activation of the machine such that water is dispensed from the machine.

Throughout this document a server is for example a remote computer or remote computer system or computer program therein that is accessible over a communications medium such as the Internet that provides services to other computer programs and their users in the same or other computers.

Throughout this document including in the drawings n and n represent the last member of a series or sequence of items objects elements etc.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and or scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention pertains. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein may be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the invention exemplary methods and or materials are described below. In case of conflict the patent specification including definitions will control. In addition the materials methods and examples are illustrative only and are not intended to be necessarily limiting.

Before explaining at least one embodiment of the invention in detail it is to be understood that the invention is not necessarily limited in its application to the details of construction and the arrangement of the components and or methods set forth in the following description and or illustrated in the drawings and or the Examples. The invention is capable of other embodiments or of being practiced or carried out in various ways.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more non transitory computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A non transitory computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A non transitory computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable Radio Frequency RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider ISP .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a non transitory computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored on the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Reference is now made to which shows an operating environment for a non limiting exemplary system formed of a home server HS also known as a central or main server and a dispensing and presenting machine linked by either wired or wireless links or combinations thereof to a communications network . The communications network is for example a wide area network WAN such as a public network for example the Internet.

Via the network the home server and each of the machines are electrically linked or electronically linked to each other so as to be in electronic communication with each other either directly or indirectly. As used herein the term electronic communication includes electronic electric and electrical communication between both external for example over the communications network and internal components devices computers elements and the like and may also include data communication between both external for example over the communications network and internal components devices computers elements and the like.

The home server HS serves to manage the machines and perform analytics for the content for example media such as video advertisements and information each machine presents to consumers for example while the consumers are being provided water by the respective machine or are in a position to view a media presentation on the machine . The home server also distributes the content and provides analytic reports of presentations of content by the various machines associated with the home server . The home server for example has a uniform resource locator URL of www.homeserver.com.

With reference to the machines content media and media presentation are used interchangeably herein and refer for example to any video audio graphics text and any combination thereof having information including advertising as well as streaming video and software interfaces for user interaction. The machines are located remotely from the home server at locations for example represented by a health club gym and a mall .

The analytics are performed for example by the home server and are communicated to content providers for example information providers including advertisers to also linked to the communications network via their computers . The content providers may send their information such as media presentations including for example advertisement videos to the home server over the communications network . The home server then distributes the requisite content such as an advertisement for example in the form of a media presentation to the requisite machine . Alternately the content providers send their data for example the aforementioned media presentations to the requisite machine over the communications network . Also the content providers can directly load their media presentations to the requisite machine manually by being at the actual location of the machine itself such as the health club gym or mall .

There is also a remote server representative of cloud servers. In these cloud servers the media presentations and other information to be presented to consumers via the machines from the content providers may be stored and transmitted accordingly. These cloud servers may be considered as part of the system home server and machines disclosed herein.

There is also a system administrator who can program the home server communicate with the machines servers and information providers via the communications network . The system administrator via his computer is linked to the communications network either directly or indirectly for example via the home server .

The video display monitor presents content to consumers the content for example in a media presentation such as in video or graphic form which typically includes accompanying audio. The media presentation is for exampled initiated when consumers dispense water from the machine for example by one or more of 1 activating the push button to dispense water known as a push button event 2 when the camera sends data to the control unit and the control unit determines that consumers have been detected and also the types of consumers e.g. men women children known as a camera event and 3 sensor events. Example sensor events include detections of motion from motion sensors of the sensors as consumers pass or move by or into proximity with the machine as determined by the logic of the control unit and when one or more consumers are in proximity to the machine from data obtained from proximity sensor of the sensors . Push button events camera events and sensor events may individually trigger activation playing of a media presentation or any combination thereof may also activate playing of a media presentation on the display screen .

The machine includes a dispensing mechanism which includes a button electrically linked to the control unit and the water treatment system . The button causes opening of a valve or other regulator for controlling water flow into a receiving vessel such as a cup bottle of the like of a user through an outlet . The vessel typically rests on a pan which also is open to a drainage system.

Water is fed to the outlet from the water treatment system . The water treatment system may include for example filters ultraviolet light ozonation reverse osmosis water cooling heating systems aeration and any other water treatment articles or systems. The water treatment system is positioned intermediate the outlet and a water source not shown which may be for example a water tank or a connection to a domestic or municipal water line.

The control unit is a computer electronic logic device programmable logic controller integrated circuit or other computer type device or unit or combinations thereof and for example includes processors e.g. Intel i5 RAM ROM system bus BIOS operating system and hardware and software to perform the logic operations including the functions disclosed herein. These functions include for example recognizing that the button has been pushed by a consumer user to dispense water facial and body type recognition to determine for example the type of person at the machine such as men women adults children males and females from images from the camera analyze data from the sensors and initiate and control the content selection and its presentation to the consumer s user s of the machine . The control unit includes internal storage memory which stores machine executable instructions associated with the operation of the control unit . The control unit also includes a network interface for sending and receiving data over the network as well as transmitters and receivers for data and electronic communication both internally and over the network .

The control unit is coupled electronically including in data communication with a storage unit where content including media presentations of information and advertisements for example are stored. The content may be uploaded into the storage unit over the network by the content providers from their computer systems from the home server or the cloud server or downloaded by the control unit from the content providers computer systems the home server or the cloud server .

There may be a single media presentation to be presented every time the control unit determines that a presentation is to be displayed in response to an event. For example a single media presentation is shown when the machine is sponsored for a time period. There may also be or multiple stored presentations where the logic of the control unit selects the specific presentation to be shown on the display screen . As discussed above the media presentations may be stored in the content storage media upon being uploaded by the machine directly from the content provider over the communications network downloaded from the machine of the content provider its agent or the like over the network or loaded directly into the requisite machine manually by going to the actual location of the machine itself. Additionally the logic of the control unit may be programmed to obtain the content from servers over the network and download the content into the storage media over the network as well as from the cloud storage .

The video monitor camera sensors and push button are electrically coupled or otherwise linked to the control unit . The control unit coordinates the presentation of the content for example a media presentation such as a video presentation of an advertisement in accordance with the initiation of any one of or any combination of a push button event a camera event or a sensor event.

For example the control unit is programmed such that the media presentation begins as soon as the button is pushed or otherwise activated with the advertisement video running during the entire time of water dispensing unless the water dispensing is longer than the advertisement video in which case there is not any additional presentation the advertisement video is repeated or another advertisement video follows the initially presented advertisement video . This also holds true for camera events and sensor events.

The control unit can also decide which media presentation to present in the case of multiple media presentations associated with the push button camera or sensor events. The determination of which media presentation to play on the display screen depends for example on rules for the play of the media presentation for example as set by the content provider. These rules may include time of day a limit on the number of times the presentation can be played to whom the media presentation should be played to adults children men women and the like. For example in a camera event the camera may detect people and the analysis of the images may detect the people as women only hence the content selected by the control unit is a media presentation on for the video screen which is directed to women. Similarly should a crowd be detected in an area proximate to the machine a media presentation for general audiences may be shown on the video screen .

Also for example events are typically contemporaneous and typically simultaneous. For example a push button event may occur contemporaneous with a camera event and or a sensor event. In the case of the push button event occurring contemporaneously or simultaneously a woman as detected in a camera event by the camera coupled with the recognition logic of the control unit has activated the push button to dispense water. Should there be more than one content selection e.g. media presentation for this push button event the media presentation selected by the control unit will be the one best targeted to women due to the detection of the woman dispensing water via the push button of the camera event.

Staying with this example of the contemporaneous and for example simultaneous push button and camera events should the sensors detect multiple adults in close proximity to the machine including the woman as detected by the camera event who has pushed the button to dispense water in the push button event adding this contemporaneous and for example simultaneous sensor event will result in the control unit selecting the best female or crowd oriented content e.g. media presentation should multiple content e.g. media presentations be associated with the push button event.

Additional control buttons controls and the like for hot cold aeration and the like may be on a touch panel not shown attached to the machine and linked to the control unit .

The control unit is linked to the communications network either wired wirelessly or combinations thereof and directly or indirectly. The control unit is programmed to map to the home server and also programmed to report all button activations associated with the media presentations which are shown on the monitor to consumers including the media presentation to the home server when the button is activated. Data on the activation of the media presentation and the media presentation itself resulting from a camera event sensor event or a combination thereof as processed by the control unit as well as in combination with a push button event as processed by the logic control unit is also sent from the logic control unit to the home server via the network . Additionally this data may also be sent over the network to the content provider either directly or via the homer server . This data is also accessible via download from the home server .

Attention is now directed to which shows the architecture of the home server . The home server also includes a system which is also referred to by the element number herein. The home server includes modules databases including databases content storage media processors and storage memory .

An Application Programming Interface API module allows for access to applications outside of the system such that these outside applications can interact with the system . A management module manages the software and hardware for controlling system operations including for example remote control of the machines content management and content distribution for the machines the collection and compiling of analytics from the machines managing communications between the machines information providers system administrator with the home server and other functions detailed herein.

A communications module functions to allow the system automatically or via the system administrator to send and receive communications such as e mails and other notifications concerning analytics the video presentations and the like over the communications network . The analytics module functions to perform the various analytics calculations and statistical applications for example over predetermined time intervals or periods from the data associated with the push button camera or sensor events and activations of the media presentation associated with these events. The data may include for example the time of the event such as a time stamp the place of the event the actual presentation shown to whom the presentation was shown in the case of a camera event the length of time the button was pressed or the camera or sensor event occurred an the like. For example in the case of a push button event the time of the water dispensing i.e. a shorter time to fill a cup versus a longer time for dispending water to fill a bottle and the like.

A database is shown with four databases representative of multiple databases of the database . The database stores data on the content providers for example information providers including advertisers and their content for example media presentations to be presented and displayed in the respective machines along with any rules for the media presentations. These rules may be the frequency at which a media presentation may be presented the times at which it can be presented the audience to whom it can be presented e.g. general or special adults or children men or women and the like. The database stores data of the actual content e.g. the specific media presentations thereof and the machines to which they have been sent are stored on or have been displayed on. In both databases the data for the actual content of the media presentations e.g. the media presentations themselves is stored in the content storage media or content storage or for example the cloud storage . Both the content storage and cloud storage are accessible over the network .

Database stores the analytics data as processed by the analytics module for each content provider. This data includes all information associated with each event i.e. push button events camera events sensor events where media presentations were shown on the video screen so as to have been presented to users as detailed above.

The processors control the operation of the components of the home server . The processors are conventional processors such as those used in servers computers and other computerized devices. The processors may be arranged to have a central processing unit CPU for controlling the system and the module . For example the processors may include x86 Processors from AMD and Intel Xenon and Pentium processors from Intel. Other processors such as those of the modules may be any of the aforementioned processors.

The storage memory is any conventional storage media. This is also the case for the storage specific to the modules . The storage memory stores machine executable instructions for the processors associated with the operation of the modules and databases as well as other data which may be stored in the home server such as the actual video presentations of the information providers advertisers associated with the system . Also the storage memory although shown as a single component for representative purposes may be multiple components and may be outboard from the home server and linked to the network .

Attention is now directed to which is a flow diagram detailing a process in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosed subject matter. Reference is also made to elements shown in . The process and subprocesses of are a computerized process performed by the home server . The processes and subprocesses of the aforementioned flow diagram are for example performed automatically and in real time.

The process begins at the START block . Here the content for example as a media presentation is obtained by the requisite machine via uploading or downloading. Additionally the content may be manually loaded into the requisite machine for example the machine in the Health Club . Content for a machine may also be obtained based on the logic of the control unit selecting the machine for the content or a certain content provider may select a certain machine or location with machines which will display their content which is obtained by the requisite machine in accordance with the methods detailed herein. The aforementioned obtaining of content by the machines is such that the content is typically obtained with rules for its presentation to viewers consumers.

The process moves to block where the home server for example the system thereof establishes contact with each machine and monitors the status of each machine to detect activity of each machine . This activity includes for example recording the data such as the data detailed above associated with events where a media presentation was shown on the display screen to consumers.

The process then moves to block where data is received at the home server over the communications network transmitted from the requisite machine of activations of media presentations caused by one or more of push button camera or sensor events including the actual media presentation shown on the video screen . Specifically the data is transmitted from the control unit to the home server over the network by virtue of the control unit being mapped to the home server .

The process moves to block where analytics are performed on the received data for each content provider by the analytics module . The analytics are then stored in the analytics database . The analytics may be presented in reports either sent to each content provider by the communications module or made accessible to content provider via the API module via downloading over the network . The report may be customized according to the needs of each content provider.

The process moves to block where it ends. The process is repeatable for as long as desired for as many machines are linked to the home server via the network .

As used herein the singular form a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration Any embodiment described as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments and or to exclude the incorporation of features from other embodiments.

The word optionally is used herein to mean is provided in some embodiments and not provided in other embodiments . Any particular embodiment of the invention may include a plurality of optional features unless such features conflict.

It is appreciated that certain features of the invention which are for clarity described in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features of the invention which are for brevity described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided separately or in any suitable subcombination or as suitable in any other described embodiment of the invention. Certain features described in the context of various embodiments are not to be considered essential features of those embodiments unless the embodiment is inoperative without those elements.

Although the invention has been described in conjunction with specific embodiments thereof it is evident that many alternatives modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly it is intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and broad scope of the appended claims.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated in their entirety by reference into the specification to the same extent as if each individual publication patent or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated herein by reference. In addition citation or identification of any reference in this application shall not be construed as an admission that such reference is available as prior art to the present invention. To the extent that section headings are used they should not be construed as necessarily limiting.

