---

title: Methods and devices for treating conditions associated with autonomic dysfunction
abstract: Methods and devices treating an autonomic nervous system associated disease condition in a subject are provided. Aspects of the invention include inducing one or more physiological response selected from the group consisting of sweating, gastric emptying, enhanced heart rate variability and enhanced quantitative sensory test responsiveness in a manner sufficient to modify the autonomic nervous system so as to treat the subject for the disease condition. The methods and devices find use in a variety of applications, e.g. in the treatment of subjects suffering from conditions arising from disorders of the autonomic nervous system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09326887&OS=09326887&RS=09326887
owner: Palo Alto Investors
number: 09326887
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141110
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e this application claims priority to the filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 526 609 filed Aug. 23 2011 the disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.

Dysautonomia autonomic dysfunction is a broad term that describes any disease or malfunction of the autonomic nervous system. This includes postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome POTS inappropriate sinus tachycardia IST vasovagal syncope mitral valve prolapse dysautonomia pure autonomic failure neurocardiogenic syncope NCS neurally mediated hypotension NMH autonomic instability and a number of lesser known disorders such as cerebral salt wasting syndrome.

There is continued interest in the development of new methodologies for treating autonomic dysfunction and related conditions.

Methods and devices treating an autonomic nervous system associated disease condition in a subject are provided. Aspects of the invention include inducing one or more physiological response selected from the group consisting of sweating gastric emptying enhanced heart rate variability and enhanced quantitative sensory test responsiveness in a manner sufficient to modify the autonomic nervous system so as to treat the subject for the disease condition. The methods and devices find use in a variety of applications e.g. in the treatment of subjects suffering from conditions arising from disorders of the autonomic nervous system.

Methods and devices treating an autonomic nervous system associated disease condition in a subject are provided. Aspects of the invention include inducing one or more physiological response selected from the group consisting of sweating gastric emptying enhanced heart rate variability and enhanced quantitative sensory test responsiveness in a manner sufficient to modify the autonomic nervous system so as to treat the subject for the disease condition. The methods and devices find use in a variety of applications e.g. in the treatment of subjects suffering from conditions arising from disorders of the autonomic nervous system.

Before the present invention is described in greater detail it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to particular embodiments described as such may of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting since the scope of the present invention will be limited only by the appended claims.

Where a range of values is provided it is understood that each intervening value to the tenth of the unit of the lower limit unless the context clearly dictates otherwise between the upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated range is encompassed within the invention. The upper and lower limits of these smaller ranges may independently be included in the smaller ranges and are also encompassed within the invention subject to any specifically excluded limit in the stated range. Where the stated range includes one or both of the limits ranges excluding either or both of those included limits are also included in the invention.

Certain ranges are presented herein with numerical values being preceded by the term about. The term about is used herein to provide literal support for the exact number that it precedes as well as a number that is near to or approximately the number that the term precedes. In determining whether a number is near to or approximately a specifically recited number the near or approximating unrecited number may be a number which in the context in which it is presented provides the substantial equivalent of the specifically recited number.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can also be used in the practice or testing of the present invention representative illustrative methods and materials are now described.

All publications and patents cited in this specification are herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication or patent were specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference and are incorporated herein by reference to disclose and describe the methods and or materials in connection with which the publications are cited. The citation of any publication is for its disclosure prior to the filing date and should not be construed as an admission that the present invention is not entitled to antedate such publication by virtue of prior invention. Further the dates of publication provided may be different from the actual publication dates which may need to be independently confirmed.

It is noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. It is further noted that the claims may be drafted to exclude any optional element. As such this statement is intended to serve as antecedent basis for use of such exclusive terminology as solely only and the like in connection with the recitation of claim elements or use of a negative limitation.

As will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading this disclosure each of the individual embodiments described and illustrated herein has discrete components and features which may be readily separated from or combined with the features of any of the other several embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention. Any recited method can be carried out in the order of events recited or in any other order which is logically possible.

In further describing embodiments of the invention aspects of the methods will be described first followed by a review of aspects of devices for use in the subject methods embodiments of applications in which the methods and devices find use as well as kits for performing methods of the invention.

Aspects of the invention include methods of treating a subject having a condition arising from autonomic dysfunction. As reviewed above autonomic dysfunction i.e. Dysautonomia is a malfunction of the autonomic nervous system. As reviewed below a variety of different diseases may be treated according to methods of the invention.

In practicing methods according to embodiments of the invention a physiological response is enhanced in a manner sufficient to modify the autonomic nervous system so as to treat the disease condition. By enhanced it is meant that the magnitude of the physiological response examples of which are detailed below is increased e.g. by 2 fold or more such as 5 fold or more including 10 fold or more as compared to a suitable control.

The physiological response may vary and in some instances is selected from the group consisting of sweating gastric emptying heart rate variability ability to rapidly transition from prone to suspended orientation and quantitative sensory test responsiveness. Each of these physiological responses is now described in greater detail.

In some instances methods of invention include enhancing sweating of a subject in a manner sufficient to modulate the subject s autonomic nervous system so as to treat the target disease condition. In certain of these embodiments the methods include inducing sweating in the subject. Sweating may be induced using any convenient protocol. In some instances the subject is subjected to whole body induction of sweating. In these instances the entire body of the subject may be subjected to an increased temperature sufficient to induce whole body sweating. For example the subject may be placed in a temperature controlled chamber and the temperature in the chamber elevated to a temperature sufficient to induce sweating e.g. to a temperature ranging from 45 to 50 C. Where desired sweat induction may be monitored in a region of the subject s body or the subject entire body may be evaluated for sweat induction e.g. via thermoregulatory sweat testing TST protocols e.g. as described in Illigens et al. Clin. Auton. Res. 2009 19 79 87. Instead of whole body sweat induction localized sweat induction may be employed. For example Quantitative Sudomotor Reflex Test QSART protocols may be employed to locally induce sweating wherein a cholinergic agent such as acetylcholine pilocarpine or methacholine is iontophoretically administered to a patient e.g. the arm of a patient and sweat induction is measured e.g. with a hygrometer e.g. as described in Illigens supra. As a variation instead of measuring sweat induction with a hygrometer moldable materials e.g. silicone may be employed e.g. as described in Illigens supra. In yet other embodiments Quantitative Direct and Indirect Axon Reflex Testing QDIRT protocols may be employed.

As reviewed above where the physiological response is sweating sweating will be enhanced in the subject in a manner sufficient to modulate the autonomic nervous system as desired. In some instances the sweating is induced in a manner sufficient to achieve a desired parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio i.e. a desired balance between parasympathetic activity and sympathetic activity. In certain embodiments the desired ratio is analogous to a parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio observed in a healthy i.e. a subject not experiencing an abnormality in the autonomic nervous system like or rather analogous subject e.g. a healthy human subject ranging in age from about 20 years old to about 25 years old subjects other than humans will have analogous age ranges . For example if the subject being treated is a human subject the parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio provided by the practice of the subject methods may be analogous to the parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio observed in a healthy human ranging in age from about 20 years old to about 25 years old.

To achieve the desired autonomic nervous system modulation sweating may be induced a single time or multiple times. Where a given course of treatment i.e. predetermined dosing schedule includes induction of sweating multiple times sweating may be induced e.g. as described above and then the sweat stimulus may be removed e.g. by cessation of exposure to elevated temperature or cessation of administration of a cholinergic agent. Following cessation stimulus no additional stimulus is administered to the subject until the next time during the course of treatment when sweating is to be induced. The duration of this period between stimulus application which may be referred to as a holiday period may vary but in certain embodiments is 1 day or longer such as 2 days or longer including 5 days or longer 10 days or longer 15 days or longer. As such embodiments of the methods include non chronic i.e. non continuous application of the stimulus. In certain embodiments stimulus to the subject is done in an irregularly irregular manner. As such duration of the stimulus application events as well as duration of holiday periods between such events varies randomly over the entire course of a treatment which again is predetermined or at least a portion thereof. In addition the variation does not follow any pattern but instead is random.

In some instances methods of invention include enhancing gastric emptying of a subject in a manner sufficient to modulate the subject s autonomic nervous system so as to treat the target disease condition. In certain of these embodiments the methods include inducing gastric in the subject. Gastric emptying i.e. the movement of food from the stomach to the small intestine may be induced using any convenient protocol. In some instances electrical stimulation in the form of gastric neurostimulation may be employed to induce gastric emptying. Devices suitable for use in gastric neurostimulation include but are not limited to those described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 899 541 7 363 084 and 7 200 443 the disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference. Alternatively gastric emptying may be induced via pharmacological protocols e.g. by administering metoclopramide Reglan Maxolon Clopra cisapride Propulsid erythromycin E Mycin Erythrocin Ery Tab EES and domperidone Motilium etc. Where desired the induction of gastric emptying may be monitored e.g. using the protocol described in Tang et al. Dis. Mon. 2011 57 74 101.

As reviewed above where the physiological response is gastric emptying gastric emptying will be enhanced in the subject in a manner sufficient to modulate the autonomic nervous system as desired. In some instances the gastric emptying is induced in a manner sufficient to achieve a desired parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio i.e. a desired balance between parasympathetic activity and sympathetic activity. In certain embodiments the desired ratio is analogous to a parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio observed in a healthy i.e. a subject not experiencing an abnormality in the autonomic nervous system like or rather analogous subject e.g. a healthy human subject ranging in age from about 20 years old to about 25 years old subjects other than humans will have analogous age ranges . For example if the subject being treated is a human subject the parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio provided by the practice of the subject methods may be analogous to the parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio observed in a healthy human ranging in age from about 20 years old to about 25 years old.

To achieve the desired autonomic nervous system modulation gastric emptying may be induced a single time or multiple times. Where a given course of treatment i.e. predetermined dosing schedule includes induction of gastric empting multiple times gastric emptying may be induced e.g. as described above and then the stimulus may be removed e.g. by cessation of application of electrical stimulation or cessation of administration of pharmacological agent. Following cessation of stimulus no additional stimulus is administered to the subject until the next time during the course of treatment when gastric emptying is to be induced. The duration of this period between stimulus application which may be referred to as a holiday period may vary but in certain embodiments is 1 hour or longer e.g. 2 hours or longer including 3 hours or longer e.g. 6 hours or longer 12 hours or longer 1 day or longer such as 2 days or longer including 5 days or longer 10 days or longer 15 days or longer. As such embodiments of the methods include non chronic i.e. non continuous application of the stimulus. In certain embodiments stimulus to the subject is done in an irregularly irregular manner. As such duration of the stimulus application events as well as duration of holiday periods between such events varies randomly over the entire course of a treatment which again is predetermined or at least a portion thereof. In addition the variation does not follow any pattern but instead is random.

In some instances methods of invention include enhancing heart rate variability i.e. variation in interval between heart beats of a subject in a manner sufficient to modulate the subject s autonomic nervous system so as to treat the target disease condition. Any convenient protocol may be employed for enhancing heart rate variability where suitable protocols include electrical stimulation protocols e.g. where an implantable pulse generator is employed to cause heart contraction according to a predetermined protocol that enhances heart rate variability in a desired manner. Enhancement of heart rate variability may be monitored using any convenient protocol e.g. ECG blood pressure and the pulse wave signal derived from a photoplethysmograph PPG .

As reviewed above where the physiological response is heart rate variability heart rate variability will be enhanced in the subject in a manner sufficient to modulate the autonomic nervous system as desired. In some instances the enhancement of heart rate variability is produced in a manner sufficient to achieve a desired parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio i.e. a desired balance between parasympathetic activity and sympathetic activity. In certain embodiments the desired ratio is analogous to a parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio observed in a healthy i.e. a subject not experiencing an abnormality in the autonomic nervous system like or rather analogous subject e.g. a healthy human subject ranging in age from about 20 years old to about 25 years old subjects other than humans will have analogous age ranges . For example if the subject being treated is a human subject the parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio provided by the practice of the subject methods may be analogous to the parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio observed in a healthy human ranging in age from about 20 years old to about 25 years old.

To achieve the desired autonomic nervous system modulation heart rate variability may be enhanced a single time or multiple times. Where a given course of treatment i.e. predetermined dosing schedule includes enhancement of heart rate variability multiple times heart rate variability may be enhanced e.g. as described above and then the stimulus causing the enhancement in heart rate variability may be removed e.g. by cessation of application of electrical stimulation. Following cessation of stimulus no additional stimulus is administered to the subject until the next time during the course of treatment when heart rate variability is to be enhanced. The duration of this period between stimulus application which may be referred to as a holiday period may vary but in certain embodiments is 1 hour or longer e.g. 2 hours or longer including 3 hours or longer e.g. 6 hours or longer 12 hours or longer 1 day or longer such as 2 days or longer including 5 days or longer 10 days or longer 15 days or longer. As such embodiments of the methods include non chronic i.e. non continuous application of the stimulus. In certain embodiments stimulus to the subject is done in an irregularly irregular manner. As such duration of the stimulus application events as well as duration of holiday periods between such events varies randomly over the entire course of a treatment which again is predetermined or at least a portion thereof. In addition the variation does not follow any pattern but instead is random.

In some instances methods of invention include enhancing the ability of a subject to rapidly transition from prone to suspended orientation in a manner sufficient to modulate the subject s autonomic nervous system so as to treat the target disease condition. In some instances the ability of a subject to withstand rapid transition from a prone to suspended orientation without experiencing adverse effects e.g. syncope is enhanced. Any convenient protocol may be employed for enhancing the ability of the subject to rapidly transition from prone to suspended orientation where suitable protocols rapid transition from prone to suspended e.g. 60 to 80 orientations e.g. as performed during tilt table tests e.g. as described in Cliche Cusson CMAJ 2001 164 372 376. In some instances pharmacological agents may be employed e.g. syncope susceptibility agents such as such as glyceryl trinitrate or isoproterenol.

As reviewed above where the physiological response is ability to rapidly transition from prone to suspended orientation ability to rapidly transition from prone to suspended orientation will be enhanced in the subject in a manner sufficient to modulate the autonomic nervous system as desired. In some instances the enhancement of ability to rapidly transition from prone to suspended orientation is produced in a manner sufficient to achieve a desired parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio i.e. a desired balance between parasympathetic activity and sympathetic activity. In certain embodiments the desired ratio is analogous to a parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio observed in a healthy i.e. a subject not experiencing an abnormality in the autonomic nervous system like or rather analogous subject e.g. a healthy human subject ranging in age from about 20 years old to about 25 years old subjects other than humans will have analogous age ranges . For example if the subject being treated is a human subject the parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio provided by the practice of the subject methods may be analogous to the parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio observed in a healthy human ranging in age from about 20 years old to about 25 years old.

To achieve the desired autonomic nervous system modulation ability to rapidly transition from prone to suspended orientation may be enhanced a single time or multiple times. Where a given course of treatment i.e. predetermined dosing schedule includes enhancement of ability to rapidly transition from prone to suspended orientation ability to rapidly transition from prone to suspended orientation variability may be enhanced e.g. as described above and then the stimulus causing the enhancement in ability to rapidly transition from prone to suspended orientation may be removed e.g. by cessation of application of electrical stimulation. Following cessation of stimulus no additional stimulus is administered to the subject until the next time during the course of treatment when heart rate variability is to be enhanced. The duration of this period between stimulus application which may be referred to as a holiday period may vary but in certain embodiments is 1 hour or longer e.g. 2 hours or longer including 3 hours or longer e.g. 6 hours or longer 12 hours or longer 1 day or longer such as 2 days or longer including 5 days or longer 10 days or longer 15 days or longer. As such embodiments of the methods include non chronic i.e. non continuous application of the stimulus. In certain embodiments stimulus to the subject is done in an irregularly irregular manner. As such duration of the stimulus application events as well as duration of holiday periods between such events varies randomly over the entire course of a treatment which again is predetermined or at least a portion thereof. In addition the variation does not follow any pattern but instead is random.

In some instances methods of invention include enhancing quantitative sensory test QST responsiveness of a subject in a manner sufficient to modulate the subject s autonomic nervous system so as to treat the target disease condition. Any convenient protocol may be employed for enhancing QST responsiveness where suitable protocols include stimulating the subject with a suitable stimulus e.g. vibration or heat e.g. as described in Chong and Cros Muscle Nerve 2004 29 734 747.

As reviewed above where the physiological response is QST responsiveness QST responsiveness will be enhanced in the subject in a manner sufficient to modulate the autonomic nervous system as desired. In some instances the enhancement of QST responsiveness is produced in a manner sufficient to achieve a desired parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio i.e. a desired balance between parasympathetic activity and sympathetic activity. In certain embodiments the desired ratio is analogous to a parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio observed in a healthy i.e. a subject not experiencing an abnormality in the autonomic nervous system like or rather analogous subject e.g. a healthy human subject ranging in age from about 20 years old to about 25 years old subjects other than humans will have analogous age ranges . For example if the subject being treated is a human subject the parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio provided by the practice of the subject methods may be analogous to the parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio observed in a healthy human ranging in age from about 20 years old to about 25 years old.

To achieve the desired autonomic nervous system modulation QST responsiveness may be enhanced a single time or multiple times. Where a given course of treatment i.e. predetermined dosing schedule includes enhancement of QST responsiveness multiple times QST responsiveness may be enhanced e.g. as described above and then the stimulus causing the enhancement in QST responsiveness may be removed e.g. by cessation of application of vibration or temperature change. Following cessation of stimulus no additional stimulus is administered to the subject until the next time during the course of treatment when heart rate variability is to be enhanced. The duration of this period between stimulus application which may be referred to as a holiday period may vary but in certain embodiments is 1 hour or longer e.g. 2 hours or longer including 3 hours or longer e.g. 6 hours or longer 12 hours or longer 1 day or longer such as 2 days or longer including 5 days or longer 10 days or longer 15 days or longer. As such embodiments of the methods include non chronic i.e. non continuous application of the stimulus. In certain embodiments stimulus to the subject is done in an irregularly irregular manner. As such duration of the stimulus application events as well as duration of holiday periods between such events varies randomly over the entire course of a treatment which again is predetermined or at least a portion thereof. In addition the variation does not follow any pattern but instead is random.

The subject methods find use in a variety of applications in which it is desired to treat a subject for a condition e.g. a condition at least influenced by an abnormality in the subject s autonomic nervous system. In such methods at least a portion of a subject s autonomic nervous system is modulated in a manner suitable to treat the subject for the condition e.g. in a manner to increase the parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio or decrease the parasympathetic activity sympathetic activity ratio in certain embodiments. As indicated above in many embodiments of this type of application the subject methods are employed to treat a condition in the subject in order to achieve a desired therapeutic outcome.

The subject methods find use in the treatment of a variety of different conditions in which an abnormality in a subject s autonomic nervous system exists. By treatment is meant that at least an amelioration of the symptoms associated with the condition afflicting the subject is achieved where amelioration is used in a broad sense to refer to at least a reduction in the magnitude of a parameter e.g. symptom associated with the condition being treated. As such treatment also includes situations where the condition or at least symptoms associated therewith are completely inhibited e.g. prevented from happening or stopped e.g. terminated such that the subject no longer suffers from the condition or at least the symptoms that characterize the condition. In certain embodiments the condition being treated is a disease condition.

A variety of subjects are treatable according to the subject methods. In many embodiments the subjects are mammals or mammalian where these terms are used broadly to describe organisms which are within the class mammalia including the orders carnivore e.g. dogs and cats rodentia e.g. mice guinea pigs and rats and primates e.g. humans chimpanzees and monkeys . In many embodiments the subjects are humans.

As noted above abnormalities in a subject s autonomic nervous system include those characterized by an abnormally high parasympathetic activity or abnormally low parasympathetic activity and or an abnormally high sympathetic activity or abnormally low sympathetic activity. Certain abnormalities may be characterized by having normal activity in one of the systems of the autonomic nervous system the parasympathetic system or sympathetic system but which may have abnormal activity in the other system the parasympathetic system or sympathetic system .

The subject methods find use in the treatment of a variety of different conditions including but not limited to cardiovascular conditions including cardiovascular disease e.g. atherosclerosis coronary artery disease hypertension hyperlipidemia eclampsia pre eclampsia cardiomyopathy volume retention congestive heart failure QT interval prolongation aortic dissection aortic aneurysm arterial aneurysm arterial vasospasm myocardial infarction reperfusion syndrome ischemia sudden adult death syndrome arrhythmia fatal arrythmias coronary syndromes coronary vasospasm sick sinus syndrome bradycardia tachycardia thromboembolic disease deep vein thrombosis coagulopathy disseminated intravascular coagulation DIC mesenteric ischemia syncope venous thrombosis arterial thrombosis malignant hypertension secondary hypertension primary pulmonary hypertension secondary pulmonary hypertension raynaud s paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia and the like neurodegenerative conditions including neurodegenerative diseases e.g. Alzheimer s Disease Pick s Disease Parkinson s Disease dementia delirium amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and the like neuroinflammatory conditions including neuroinflammatory diseases e.g. viral meningitis viral encephalitis fungal meningitis fungal encephalitis multiple sclerosis charcot joint schizophrenia myasthenia gravis and the like orthopedic inflammatory conditions including orthopedic inflammatory diseases e.g. osteoarthritis inflammatory arthritis regional idiopathic osteoporosis reflex sympathetic dystrophy Paget s disease osteoporosis antigen induced arthritis juvenile chronic arthritis and the like lymphoproliferative conditions including lymphoproliferative diseases e.g. lymphoma lymphoproliferative disease Hodgkin s disease inflammatory pseudomotor of the liver and the like autoimmune conditions including automimmune diseases e.g. Graves disease raynaud s hashimoto s takayasu s disease kawasaki s diseases arteritis scleroderma CREST syndrome allergies dermatitis Henoch schlonlein purpura goodpasture syndrome autoimmune thyroiditis myasthenia gravis Reiter s disease lupus and the like inflammatory conditions e.g. acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS multiple sclerosis rheumatoid arthritis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis juvenile chronic arthritis migraines chronic headaches and the like infectious diseases e.g. sepsis viral and fungal infections diseases of wound healing wound healing tuberculosis infection AIDS human immunodeficiency virus and the like pulmonary conditions including pulmonary diseases e.g. tachypnea fibrotic lung diseases such as cystic fibrosis and the like interstitial lung disease desquamative interstitial pneumonitis non specific interstitial pneumonitis intrapulmonary shunts lymphocytic interstitial pneumonitis usual interstitial pneumonitis idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis pulmonary edema aspiration asphyxiation pneumothorax right to left shunts left to right shunts respiratory failure and the like transplant related conditions such as transplant related side effects such as transplant rejection transplant related tachycardia transplant related renal failure transplant related bowel dysmotility transplant related hyperreninemia and the like gastrointestinal conditions including gastrointestinal diseases e.g. hepatitis xerostomia bowel mobility peptic ulcer disease constipation ileus irritable bowel syndrome post operative bowel dysmotility inflammatory bowel disease typhilitis cholelethiasis cholestasis fecal incontinence cyclic vomiting syndrome and the like endocrine conditions including endocrine diseases e.g. hypothyroidism hyperglycemia diabetes obesity syndrome X insulin resistance polycystic ovarian syndrome PCOS and the like genitourinary conditions including genitourinary diseases e.g. bladder dysfunction renal failure erectile dysfunction hyperreninemia hepatorenal syndrome pulmonary renal syndrome incontinence arousal disorder menopausal mood disorder premenstrual mood disorder renal tubular acidosis pulmonary renal syndrome and the like skin conditions including skin diseases e.g. wrinkles cutaneous vasculitis psoriasis rash and the like aging associated conditions including aging associated diseases e.g. shy dragers multi system atrophy age related inflammation conditions cancer aging and the like neurologic conditions including neurologic diseases such as epilepsy depression schizophrenia seizures stroke insomnia cerebral vascular accident transient ischemic attacks stress bipolar disorder concussions post concussive syndrome cerebral vascular vasospasm central sleep apnea obstructive sleep apnea sleep disorders headaches including chronic headaches migraines acute disseminated encephalomyelitis ADEM and the like pediatric conditions including pediatric diseases e.g. respiratory distress syndrome sudden infant death syndrome hirschsprung disease bronchopulmonary dysplasia congenital megacolon ananglionosis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis juvenile chronic arthritis and the like Th 2 dominant conditions including Th 2 dominant diseases e.g. typhilitis osteoporosis lymphoma myasthenia gravis lupus and the like conditions including diseases that cause hypoxia hypercarbia hypercapnia acidosis acidemia Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease COPD emphysema any chronic lung disease that causes acidosis acute pulmonary embolism sudden adult death syndrome SADS chronic pulmonary embolism pleural effusion cardiogenic pulmonary edema non cardiogenic pulmonary edema acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS neurogenic edema hypercapnia acidemia asthma renal tubular asthma acidosis chronic lung diseases that cause hypoxia hypercarbia or hypercapnia and the like OB GYN conditions including OB GYN diseases e.g. amniotic fluid embolism menopausal mood disorders premenstrual mood disorders pregnancy related arrhythmias fetal stress syndrome fetal hypoxia amniotic fluid embolism gestational diabetes pre term labor cervical incompetence fetal distress peri partum maternal mortality peripartum cardiomyopathy labor complications premenstrual syndrome dysmenorrheal endometriosis and the like sudden death syndromes e.g. sudden adult death syndrome sudden infant death syndrome and the like menstrual related disorders e.g. pelvic pain dysmenorrheal gastrointestinal disease nausea and the like peripartum and pregnancy related conditions e.g. peripartum cardiomyopathy and the like fibrosis post operative recovery conditions such as post operative pain post operative ileus post operative fever post operative nausea and the like post procedural recovery conditions such as post procedural pain post procedural ileus post procedural fever post procedural nausea and the like chronic pain trauma hospitalization glaucoma male infertility disorders of thermoregulation respiratory sinus arrhythmia VQ mismatch fibromyalgia and the like.

Other conditions may also be treated in accordance with the subject invention. Embodiments of the subject invention include treating one or more conditions sequentially or at the same time in accordance with the subject invention. Further description of target disease conditions is found in U.S. Pat. No. 7 149 574 and published U.S. patent applications 2005 0021092 and 2005 0240241 incorporated herein by reference.

Aspects of the invention include devices and systems including a physiological response stimulator e.g. electrical stimulator pharmacological agent deliver device etc. operatively coupled to a controller configured to operate the device in a manner sufficient to enhance a physiological response in a manner sufficient to modify the autonomic nervous system so as to treat the subject for the disease condition e.g. as described above. The systems of the invention include an implantable device such as an implantable pulse generator or an implantable pharmacological agent delivery device. Instead of an implantable device the device may be configured to be stably associated with a topical surface of the subject e.g. an iontophoretic device. The controller may be any suitable component and may include a suitable combination of hardware and software.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding it is readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art in light of the teachings of this invention that certain changes and modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit or scope of the appended claims.

Accordingly the preceding merely illustrates the principles of the invention. It will be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements which although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the invention and are included within its spirit and scope. Furthermore all examples and conditional language recited herein are principally intended to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventors to furthering the art and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. Moreover all statements herein reciting principles aspects and embodiments of the invention as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally it is intended that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents and equivalents developed in the future i.e. any elements developed that perform the same function regardless of structure. The scope of the present invention therefore is not intended to be limited to the exemplary embodiments shown and described herein. Rather the scope and spirit of present invention is embodied by the appended claims.

