---

title: System and method of delivering data that provides service differentiation and monetization in mobile data networks
abstract: An exemplary system according to the present disclosure comprises a lower tier Radiolet™ that is in communication with a local switching office of a mobile data network, and an upper tier Radiolet™ that is in communication with the lower tier Radiolet™ and an Internet datacenter. In operation, the upper tier Radiolet™ receives data extracted from the Internet datacenter and distributes at least a portion of the received data to the lower tier Radiolet™. At the lower tier Radiolet™, the portion of received data is stored. The lower tier Radiolet™ then receives a data request (relating to a portion of received data) and in turn, transmits data from the portion of received data to a source of the data request. The lower tier Radiolet™ is located closer to the source of the data request than the Internet datacenter to improve application performance and efficiency of network as well as datacenter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09037646&OS=09037646&RS=09037646
owner: Alef Mobitech Inc.
number: 09037646
owner_city: Bernardsville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141007
---
The present disclosure relates generally to wireless communications and more particularly to content distribution and application delivery over mobile wide area networks. The present disclosure also relates to systems and methods for providing service differentiation and assurance over a wireless network for mobile Internet sites and mobile applications providers.

Methods to mobilize the Internet and deliver content are undergoing transformative changes. On the data networking side mobile data network operators are able to provide mobile broadband services. On the application delivery side cloud computing promises to simplify application roll outs and catalyze adoption across multiple verticals. However inefficiencies in mobile content distribution and application delivery is impacting the entire value chain. Fundamentally the value chain consists of a series of independent islands of technology and business owners whose intentions and beliefs are often misaligned leading to a number of inefficiencies due to the application and network not working in tandem. These inefficiencies include high mobile latencies and inefficient use of network resources as well as application datacenter resources. Inefficiencies can be caused by data paths where data requests from a network subscriber s device are received at a cell site then sent to a local switching office and then to a regional switching office en route to a network peering point before being routed to an Internet datacenter that serves the application to the subscriber. The pathway within the wireless network is rooted on the need to provide multiple layers of mobility management and the need to centralize subscriber and session management. The pathway above the wireless network is due to network peering relationships geographic distribution of such network peering points and diversity of application datacenter locations above the network and centralized resource pooling of computing by application providers. Within the wireless network the regional and central switching offices may not be local to the area where the subscriber is and hence data served traverses several hundreds of miles before reaching the subscriber creating a number of areas of inefficiency. More generally applications are largely unaware of the network and tend to treat the network as a blackbox conversely networks are unaware of application needs and tend to treat applications as a sequence of packets. One problem of applications being unaware of the network and network contours is a network topology issue that contemporary over the top solutions cannot address. Given the economics of mobile data operators do not find a compelling need to upgrade networks without content eco system participation. Conversely application awareness is not currently possible or available because it involves well more than just propagating a few parameters into the network. Network nodes typically deal with packets and methods to forward such packets however such network nodes are not suitable for dealing with applications. This mismatch between packet based network forwarding and the technology to service applications contributes to the current lack of application awareness within the network. In general there is a lack of end to end intelligence between the two end points of an application leading to significant over provisioning of resources within the mobile operator network and the various application datacenters. Existing mobile data networks are not built for a specific application while there are thousands of applications and conversely applications are not built for specific network types with network state information of a given network changing every instant.

Current partial solutions to the foregoing require an upgrade to the existing mobile data network and require mobile operators to re architect their networks which leads to significant increases in costs. However even such upgrades and modifications are incapable of creating application awareness in the network or provide network awareness to the application.

In connection with the foregoing it is desirable to have systems and methods that can reduce the number of hops between the end points of the application by bringing mobile content and application servers and Internet cloud content closer to the subscriber as well as creating optimized paths between the end points especially when the end points are both clients and are local to the area. It is also desirable to create optimal paths for traffic data from a local switching office while preserving all layers of mobility and tiered deployments and allowing applications and networks to work with each other without any modifications to the network or application datacenters. Additionally it is desirable to create a framework along this optimized path wherein the network and application can work in tandem.

The present disclosure relates to systems and methods of delivering data comprising at least one upper tier Radiolet receiving data extracted from an Internet datacenter and distributing at least a portion of the received data to at least one lower tier Radiolet . The at least one lower tier Radiolet stores the portion of the received data and in response to a data request transmits data from the portion of received data to a source of the data request. Notably the at least one lower tier Radiolet and the at least one upper tier Radiolet are located closer to the source of the data request than the Internet datacenter thereby reducing the number of processing points between the end points of the application session. Furthermore the at least one lower tier Radiolet and the at least one upper tier Radiolet may be both network and application aware thereby allowing network information and application information to be dynamically applied at the same location to further reduce inefficiencies between the end points of the application session.

The following definitions and descriptions are provided and may be useful to better understand the concepts described in this disclosure 

 Radiolet refers to any type of server or servers including those configured for use in connection with mobile data networks such as for example any application servers communications servers proxy servers or any other suitably configured servers. The server or servers may comprise any type of computer software and computer hardware and include one or more processors for executing computer readable instructions. In an exemplary embodiment a Radiolet may refer to a temporary and partial instance of a cloud e.g. the Internet embodied and provide via one or more servers located at a radio edge e.g. outer limits of radio processing functions within a mobile data network that is configured to be application aware and to provide one or more application services.

 computer or computer hardware refers to any electronic device or devices including those capable of being utilized in connection with a mobile data system such as for example any device capable of receiving transmitting processing and or using data and information. A computer or computer hardware may comprise one or more of the following a server a processor a microprocessor a personal computer such as for example a laptop computer a tablet a palm PC a desktop or a workstation computer a network server a mainframe an electronic wired or wireless device such as for example a telephone a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant or a smart phone an interactive television such as for example a television adapted to be connected to the Internet or an electronic device adapted for use with a television an electronic pager or any other computing and or communication device whether located in a single or across multiple locations.

 network refers to any type of network or networks including those capable of being utilized in connection with a mobile data system such as for example any public and or private networks including for instance the Internet an intranet an extranet or any wired or wireless network s or combinations thereof.

 data refers to any type of facts figures statistics details images multi media content quantities characters symbols or any other type of information and or communication including those capable of being utilized in connection with a mobile data network such as for example any Internet content data or Internet application data that may be received processed stored and or transmitted by a computer in the form of electrical signals and recorded on magnetic optical and or mechanical recording media.

 datacenter refers to one or more networked computer servers configured for receiving processing storing and distributing large amounts of data. For purposes of the present disclosure datacenters may also be configured to operate within mobile data networks such as for example an Internet cloud based datacenter.

 application refers to a collection of one or more computer readable instructions that when executed carry out one or more specific operations. In the context of the present disclosure an application may be embodied as software executing on one or more computers and configured to perform operations for use in connection with mobile data networks although the present disclosure is not limited thereto. For purposes of the present disclosure an application may be configured for use in conjunction with any operating system platform such as for example and without limitation Windows Android and Apple .

In the context of wireless Internet communications mobile application performance can be significantly inferior as compared to wired Internet communications. For instance the latencies may be extremely high compared to wired Internet communications. The higher mobile latencies can be due at least in part to the Mobile Middle Mile problem. Moreover the Mobile Middle Mile combined with the lack of end to end intelligence also leads to a number of inefficiencies in resource utilization in the network as well as datacenter. This problem can occur when a subscriber accesses a mobile site or application through a mobile data network. Data requests from the subscriber s device can be received at a cell site and then sent to a local switching office following which data packets are tunneled to a regional switching office followed by tunneling to a central switching officer before being routed to an Internet datacenter via a network peering point. The data packets traverse multiple switching offices before being routed to the Internet in order to provide multiple layers of mobility management and centralization of subscriber and Internet session management. Often times the data requests will pertain to data that is typically locally available at a datacenter close to the local switching office or pertain to applications between two end points that are in geographic proximity to each other. However the regional and central switching offices as well as peering points and application datacenters may not be local to the area where the subscriber is and hence data packets may have to traverse several hundreds of miles before reaching the subscriber. This data traversal across multiple switching locations can create high latency. The data path from the local switching office to the Internet data center that serves the subscriber may be referred to as the Mobile Middle Mile problem.

As will be evident from the following description the present disclosure provides means for addressing the Mobile Middle Mile problem by reducing round trip time RTT for traffic data packets coupled with improved application performance through propagation of network and application intelligence in the path while simultaneously improving the efficiency of mobile broadband connections by bringing Internet cloud or content closer to subscribers. The present disclosure can also achieve improvement in radio efficiency by improving the number of pages videos and applications transmitted per Megahertz of spectrum improvement in transport efficiency by reducing the number of traffic packets that traverse the transport network improvement in core network efficiency by reducing the number of traffic packets that traverse the core network and improvement in datacenter efficiency by reducing the number of content and or application traffic sessions that are hosted in the datacenter.

The present disclosure also provides means for the retention of centralized control within a mobile data network of functions related to without limitation subscriber management session management mobility management policy management peering and other specialized functions such as intercept the retention of centralized control within a cloud datacenter related to application layer authentication application databases content ingestion and storage application peering and other specialized functions such as usage metrics and reporting and the decentralization of content distribution application data application hosting and delivery of such packets from a location in the network much closer to the subscriber. Referring briefly to an exemplary non limiting listing of such functions together with various locations apparatus across which such functions may be distributed and performed is shown.

The present disclosure also provides means for mobility at the application or content layer when content and application data are served from or hosted at a location in the network much closer to the subscriber by which the application service point is migrated to yet another closer point in the network as the mobile subscriber migrates from cell tower to another or when network control migrates from one switching office to another midway through an application session.

The present disclosure also provides means for simultaneously improving the efficiency of every segment of an existing mobile data network without having to upgrade said existing network or cloud application datacenters within said network. In addition the present disclosure provides means for improving efficiency of mobile operator networks as well as Internet cloud datacenters by reducing the amount of traffic packets that traverse through an existing mobile data network allowing data packets to traverse the existing mobile data network faster. Also the present disclosure can combine an existing mobile data network with a network of software and Radiolets that have an independent management system and network operations center for the software and Radiolets thereby eliminating the need for an upgrade to the existing mobile data network. The present disclosure can be operator friendly and includes software and Radiolets combined with an existing mobile data network that allows the operator to retain subscriber and session management through a core network of the existing network while traffic requests are served to the Radiolets from the local switching location.

In addition the present disclosure provides means for identification of traffic flow data from signaling flow data and serving content and application data from the local switching office. The signaling flow data are permitted to pass through an existing mobile data network that include servers and specialized hardware for handling network subscriber management network session management and network mobility management without any changes. Similarly application layer signaling flow data may be permitted to go to existing application data centers for handling application layer session set up and application provider management functions. The traffic flow data may be directed to pass through another mobile data network or more generally another Internet Protocol IP based data network. The present disclosure can also provide means for distribution storage and delivery of content as well as hosting of applications from the local switching office in the other mobile data network. As indicated above provides a summary of various exemplary functions and the locations apparatus across which such functions may be distributed and performed. Notably the signaling management entities may be separated from traffic functions and the traffic functions may be moved closer to the user without requiring upgrades to existing network or datacenters.

The present disclosure can also provide for a software based adaptive overlay solution which operates on standard servers across a highly distributed network that does not require any upgrades to existing operator networks or to the datacenters including Internet cloud based deployments of content and mobile applications apps providers. This software based adaptive overlay solution can provide means for separating the control planes of mobile routers or switches from the data planes of the routers or switches of a mobile data network as well as application servers or application switches of a datacenter. The control planes can comprise signaling data transactions and the data planes can comprise traffic data transactions. An Internet datacenter for example a cloud based datacenter may be brought to the data planes and the combined data plane internet cloud may be brought close to a mobile subscriber. The combined data plane internet cloud can distribute mobile networking and mobile computing data to a location close to the subscriber. The network control plane can be used for management functions and can be preserved in a centralized manner in the existing network elements of the mobile data network and the application control and management functions can be preserved in a centralized manner in the existing application servers of the application cloud datacenters. Moreover such preservation can be accomplished in a transparent manner without any upgrades to existing mobile data network or application datacenter. For example any of the exemplary functions listed in may be distributed and performed across existing network elements while at the same time preserving application control and management functions in existing application services and cloud datacenters.

Still further the present disclosure provides means for intelligent cross layer resource management and flow control methods simultaneously applied to network packet flows and content delivery and application sessions which can lead to dramatic improvements in operating efficiency of the spectrum.

Still further the present disclosure can provide means for increasing data transaction volume across a mobile data network and reducing churn rate where churn rate is the percentage of subscribers in a given time frame that cease to use the content or application provider s services which can be beneficial to a mobile content or application provider. The present disclosure can provide means for increasing the amount of content and application transactions per megahertz MHz of cellular frequency at a reduced cost which can be beneficial to a mobile operator. The present disclosure can also provide means for improving quality of experience QoE for mobile services by reducing mobile latency which can be beneficial to a subscriber and an enterprise application user.

Still further the present disclosure can provide means for increasing the richness of applications delivered from application datacenters and increasing application adoption with corresponding application churn rate as well as customer acquisition costs. The present disclosure can provide means for improving the number of application sessions supported across a given a datacenter footprint thereby reducing the cost of application delivery. The present disclosure can also provide means for higher definition quality of experience hi def QoE for mobile applications which can be beneficial to subscribers and enterprise application users.

In an exemplary embodiment the present disclosure can include the following two tier distributed architecture a lower tier network of servers e.g. lower tier Radiolet s that interface with an operator network and an upper tier network of servers e.g. upper tier Radiolet s that interface with a content and application provider eco system including for example a publisher advertising network or enterprise datacenter or over the top communications application provider datacenter. One or more of the Radiolet s may represent a temporary and partial instance of a cloud e.g. a cloudlet such as the Internet embodied and provide via one or more servers located at a radio edge e.g. outer limits of a mobile data network that provides application aware and application service s and that comprises software capsules such as for example application programming interfaces APIs . This type of radiolet instance may be referred to as Radio Edge Cloudlet . One or more lower tier Radiolet s can be connected to one or more upper tier Radiolet s using a high speed managed link while upper tier Radiolet s may be logically connected to each other through the Internet. Adequate security and redundancy can be provisioned between the lower tier Radiolet s and the upper tier Radiolet s as required or desired.

The lower tier Radiolet s can comprise one or more servers and storage devices and can be located at a local switching office of a mobile data network operator. The location of the lower tier Radiolet may depend on transportation costs for example and or other factors . A plurality of cell sites can also be aggregated at the local switching office. In one embodiment an optimal location for the lower tier Radiolet can be a location that is relatively close to subscribers but yet does not require significant capital expenditure. The lower tier Radiolet s can be physically connected to a layer 2 or layer 3 switch where the layer 2 switch provides connectivity from the local switching office to a regional switching office and the layer 3 switch provides connectivity from the regional switching office to a central switching office or a router that is part of the overall network in a local switching office of a mobile data network. In one exemplary embodiment of this disclosure during operation the lower tier Radiolet s may be configured to provide one or more of the following functions passively monitor control signaling messages for example A11 messages in an High Rata Packet Data HRPD standards based mobile data network and extract relevant parameters while processing of and responding to said controlling signaling messages for example A11 messages in an HRPD standards based mobile data network is handled by network elements in the packet core for example a Packet Data Service Node PDSN in and HRPD standards based mobile data network encapsulate and tunnel data traffic packets for example A10 packets in an HRPD standards based mobile data network for bearer packets potentially communicate with the upper tier Radiolet s to dynamically fetch the content data which can be based on the business relationship with over the top OTT content and application partners where the OTT partners can be any provider of mobile content or application data be a serving point for the subscriber Internet protocol IP sessions which means that a subscriber IP session is not extended up to the upper tier Radiolet s process dynamic content support content caching and storage which can be used for accelerated and efficient content delivery communicate with the operator proxy Radiolet s to send and receive messages to policy and charging rules function e.g. PCRF servers real time mediation device RTMD and authentication authorization and accounting e.g. AAA servers work with the operator proxy Radiolet s to enable content layer mobility during network mobility events for example layer two handoffs or inter packet control function PCF handoff in an HRPD standards based mobile network network and application layer quality of service QoS enablement and work with operator owned lawful intercept network elements.

In another exemplary embodiment of this disclosure the said tunneling and delivery of data traffic packets for example A10 messages in an HRPD standards based mobile data network is achieved without any extraction of parameters contained in control signaling messages for example A11 messages in an HRPD standards based mobile data network but instead through a combination of an automated learning method that observes packet flows between the packet core and RAN as well interfaces with existing management nodes and billing as well as accounting systems in the operator network.

The upper tier Radiolet s can comprise one or more servers and storage devices located in a hosting datacenter s external to operator networks. The upper tier Radiolet s can serve multiple lower tier Radiolets across multiple operator networks in a given geographic area. The upper tier Radiolet s can be physically connected to a layer 2 or layer 3 switch or a router that is part of the overall network in a private or public cloud datacenter. The upper tier Radiolet s can comprise back to back B2B user agents and open application programming interfaces API that can interface with multiple application delivery datacenters and third party software products. In one embodiment the upper tier Radiolet s may not be co located or located in the packet core for example next to a packet data serving node PDSN of an HRPD standards based mobile network or any point of present PoP of a mobile data network but rather located close to the user outside the mobile data network with a view towards enabling functionality that is typically available at a private application data center or public Internet cloud datacenters. In one embodiment of the operation the upper tier Radiolet s can provide one or more of the following functions but not limited to support a mobile web services engine coupled with dynamic on demand virtualization to support multiple sessions across multiple content properties distribute content dynamically to the lower Radiolet s and serve multiple operator networks. Also in an exemplary embodiment any upper tier Radiolet s can communicate with multiple lower tier Radiolet s within a given geographic area through a high speed managed network which will allow for leveraging of statistical multiplexing gains without any impact on content distribution application delivery and corresponding service assurance.

In an exemplary embodiment a system according to the present disclosure can also include a lower tier network of proxy servers herein referred to as operator proxy Radiolet s and an upper tier network of proxy servers herein referred to as over the top proxy Radiolet s . The operator proxy Radiolet s can be configured to support interfaces to billing and policy enforcement in the operator network. The operator proxy Radiolet s can be configured to facilitate proxying of messages from a plurality of lower tier Radiolet s towards an accounting server for example a AAA server and towards a billing server for example towards a diameter based billing system and towards a policy server a PCRF server for example in HRPD standards based systems . The operator proxy Radiolet s can facilitate content layer mobility during inter PCF handoff. The operator proxy Radiolet s can be located relatively close to the packet core for example close to a PDSN in and HRPD based mobile data network . The over the top proxy Radiolet s can be located in a large geographic area and can support interfaces to metering and application policies across multiple content and application datacenters or customized to support specific large application provider in a private datacenter of the said application provider. The location of the both operator and over the top proxy Radiolets may depend on transportation costs operations costs and other costs for example and or other factors including business agreements and policies .

The present disclosure can provide means for supporting content and application layer mobility which exploits two tier network architecture and can include a distributed network management system that provides high availability managed services with or without any tight integration to operator network management systems or content eco system datacenter network management systems. The present disclosure can also provide means for interfacing to content or application eco system partner datacenters as well as mobile data network operator partner networks that can be customized based on various requirements. The present disclosure can also provide means for supporting specialized services such as for example mobile streaming peer to peer communications services and real time TV services to mobile subscribers.

In another exemplary embodiment data is fetched from various participating Internet sites and or enterprises and made available to one or more upper tier Radiolet locations. The data can include but is not limited to content media feeds and application data. One or more of the upper tier Radiolet s obtains the data following which the data can be replicated across multiple other upper tier Radiolet s in multiple locations. The choice of other upper tier Radiolet s that obtain data from the upper tier Radiolet s may depend on various static and dynamic rules. Exemplary static rules may include content types and policies provided in advance by content partners where content partners can be any providers of mobile content or data and dynamic rules may be created periodically based on outputs of intelligent content management algorithms. The data may then be replicated in one or more lower tier Radiolet s . The lower tier Radiolet s can fetch the data from the upper tier Radiolet s or the upper tier Radiolet s can distribute the data to the lower tier Radiolet s . Parameters for deciding which pieces of data are stored in a given lower tier Radiolet may be based on the frequency of requests for the same piece of data for example the popularity of data networking datacenter and business policies or any other desired parameters.

When a subscriber mobile device requests for traffic data this request may be delivered to the lower tier Radiolet s in the network that is closest to the subscriber. In one exemplary embodiment of this disclosure the closest lower tier Radiolet s to the subscriber can be located at the local switching office where the traffic request from the subscriber is received. Directing the traffic request to the closest lower tier Radiolet s may include identifying and separating traffic packets from network signaling and application layer signaling packets from the subscriber mobile device . In one embodiment such identification and separation can be implemented in a switch that manages and communicates across all lower tier Radiolets . Then all network signaling data may be sent directly to the mobile packet core network where the core network can comprise various servers providing various particular functions such as for example and without limitation policy and charging rules function e.g. PCRF servers real time mediation device e.g. RTMD and authentication authorization and accounting e.g. AAA servers and packet data serving node PDSN servers or other network elements known in the art. Similarly application signaling packets may be sent to appropriate application provider data centers. Next all data packets that are not signaling may be declared as traffic packets and directed to the lower tier Radiolet s . The lower tier Radiolet s may then create a temporary instance of the content media application session and service the request in a manner similar to an existing content media application server in a cloud datacenter. In one embodiment the said content media application server may create a flow control protocol session such as for example a transmission control protocol TCP session with the subscriber mobile device using existing Internet protocols and deliver traffic data as a flow control protocol or for example a TCP datagram. Following completion of the content media application session additional sessions from the same or different subscriber mobile device s may then be processed using the same procedures. In an embodiment a wireless link is shared across multiple users and multiple cell towers or wireless access devices are aggregated at a given local switching office and accordingly a given lower tier Radiolet server can process and serve multiple user requests as well as re use the same hardware and software to support multiple users across time.

The present disclosure can achieve efficiency improvements in the network through one or more of the following fundamentally fetching storing and delivering data from the closest lower tier Radiolet s reduces the latency of the content media application session and can allow more subscriber sessions to be hosted on the same network completing a session in a shorter amount of time also allows for a given subscriber mobile device to stop sending physical layer control messages e.g. pilot beams and channel quality information which can allow the network to admit additional subscribers who may be able to make additional traffic data requests and through a combination of resource management and flow control methods additional and significant gains in operating efficiencies in the spectral efficiency can be achieved which can allow for faster flow control protocol sessions. Furthermore following the completion of a data content or application session the present disclosure can allow for additional sessions from the same or different subscriber mobile devices using the same methods.

In an embodiment the present disclosure can additionally improve overall efficiency and dramatically improve user Quality of Experience QoE through software APIs that provide network awareness to the application thereby allowing applications to adapt to the network type and network state changes in real time as well as application awareness to the network to intelligently allocate and manage resources in the radio access network.

In one embodiment the present disclosure can include the following features without limitation applicable to a content eco system subscriber base the lower tier Radiolet s may directly provide storage and caching for static content pages dynamic mobile content acceleration may be provided through a hybrid caching storage and mobile web services solution the functionality for dynamic site acceleration may be split between both the upper tier and lower tier Radiolet s application delivery frameworks may be hosted at a lower tier Radiolet or at an upper tier Radiolet while application data that is frequently used may readily be available in an upper tier Radiolet whereas seldom used data may be fetched from an application partner s origin datacenter where the application partner can be any provider of mobile software application content or services and both the lower tier and upper tier Radiolets can be configured to create temporary virtual computing instances to support application hosting based on application logic provided by an application provider applied to various application delivery frameworks.

Both the upper tier Radiolet s and lower tier Radiolet s may be configured to support any type of software application and software application roll out e.g. its introduction to the general public may depend on business strategy and product management input from content eco system subscribers.

The present disclosure can provide various value added services packaged around application programming interface API information in the form of metadata that will abet monetization. The present disclosure can provide the value added services to subscribers but obtain them from operators as well as other third party vendors while providing necessary information to generate these monetization API s essentially acting as a super market shelf for the value added services.

The present disclosure provides for communication between any upper tier Radiolet s and multiple lower tier Radiolet s within a geographic area which can allow the leveraging of statistical multiplexing gains at no additional power or additional computing or additional bandwidth.

The present disclosure also provides various value added services can be provided to the subscribers through the mobile data network that from the content eco system subscriber perspective allows the acceleration of roll out of new services and leveraging of market opportunities earlier than currently possible.

The present disclosure also provides means for faster Internet webpage load times and increased subscriber traffic on Internet webpages which can result in more and potentially richer media advertisements being served on the webpages and can benefit advertisement supported publisher sites. In addition the present disclosure provides means for faster and potentially richer delivery of advertisements on Internet webpages and can benefit advertisement networks and advertisers. Still further the present disclosure provides means for reduction in subscriber transaction latency and faster speeds for advertisements and recommendations and can benefit mobile commerce websites. Faster mobile application response times which can benefit enterprise networks are also a direct result of the systems and methods described herein.

The present disclosure also enables the roll out of new rich media based services such as video based mobile commerce services video based branchless banking and teller services for example without waiting for mobile operator networks to increase capacity in their networks or enterprises to increase their datacenter capacities.

In one embodiment the present disclosure may provide the following features without limitation applicable to mobile data network operators the lower tier Radiolet s can interface with any mobile broadband access network including any 2G or 3G or 4G or future Generation network and a 3G or comparable network can comprise a radio network controller RNC that terminates layer 2 protocols at a local switching office followed by a visited mobile gateway e.g. a packet data service node PDSN or serving general packet radio service GPRS support node SGSN at a regional switching office and finally a home gateway e.g. high availability HA or gateway GPRS support node GGSN at a central switching office which allows the operator to provide inter cell site mobility by anchoring at the RNC inter local switching office mobility by anchoring at the visited gateway and inter regional switching office mobility by anchoring at the home gateway. For example a 4G or comparable network may comprise local switching offices that contain an S1 aggregation device and interface as well as to a Mobility Management Entity MME regional switching offices that contain a visited gateway e.g. serving gateway S GW and central switching offices that contain a home gateway packet data node gateway P GW . In all such deployments the lower tier Radiolet can be interfaced in an adaptive overlay fashion at a local switching office for example or any other point in the radio access network closer to the user.

In another embodiment the present disclosure provides content and application services as well as network efficiency services for operator managed outdoor and indoor WiFi networks that are centrally connected to a common packet core.

In another embodiment the present disclosure provides the features to simultaneously service subscriber application and content requests across multiple radio access technologies supported the same mobile data network operator from the same lower tier Radiolet .

Traffic data packets between the core network where the core network can comprise various servers providing various functions for example policy and charging rules function e.g. PCRF servers real time mediation device e.g. RTMD and authentication authorization and accounting e.g. AAA servers and packet data serving node e.g. PDSN servers and the Radio Access Network RAN including network elements in the local switching office can be tunneled using different types of IP in IP tunneling where the type differences may be due to different standards. Similarly packets between the lower tier Radiolet s and the RAN may also be tunneled with identical markings. This allows the existing network elements to not go through an upgrade to process packets from the servers. In an embodiment the lower tier Radiolet s are not exposed to the RAN or network elements in the packet core by reconfiguring the appropriate Ethernet interface or layer 2 or layer 3 switch where the Radiolet s are located.

Intelligent algorithms can be provided to improve the efficiency of the RAN by increasing the number of pages sessions that are delivered or completed in a unit of time over a given unit of spectrum. This can be achieved through a set of cross layer optimizations that can be applied to existing flow control algorithms that are typically part of TCP and treating flow control as an outer loop control mechanism adapted to work with existing mac layer scheduling algorithms. In an embodiment the present disclosure does not require any modifications to the mac layer scheduling algorithms.

A coordinated exchange between source and target serving nodes of content information as well as TCP parameters referred to as content layer mobility can be provided for session continuity. This addresses the issue of a subscriber migrating from one content or application data serving Radiolet or node to another node during a content or application session.

The present disclosure can operate above the RAN which can provide for an architecture and deployment agnostic solution which means that the present disclosure is not constrained by the type of data network deployment of mobile operators e.g. macro micro pico and femto cellular deployments .

Information delivered from an operator proxy Radiolet s to lower tier Radiolets can be used to enforce all operator policies applicable to traffic handled typically handled by core networking elements.

The present disclosure does not require existing mobile communications network elements in an existing operator network to undergo an upgrade. Any software downtime from the existing mobile data network on the lower tier Radiolet s or upper tier Radiolet s of the present disclosure do not negatively impact the existing operator network and normal data flows through the existing mobile communications network will continue to be supported by the present disclosure.

The lower tier Radiolet s may not be reachable from the Internet except from the corresponding upper tier Radiolet s . As a result introduction of the lower tier Radiolet s into existing mobile data networks will not compromise the networks security or the security of the networks elements in the networks local switching office or the location s where a lower tier Radiolet is deployed.

The upper tier Radiolet s may not be reachable from the public Internet except through managed connections from an over the top proxy Radiolet or from managed secure network connections from specific over the top datacenters. As a result introduction of the upper tier Radiolet s between the subscriber and the over the top datacenter will not compromise the datacenters security or the security of datacenter servers or cloud datacenter.

Lawful intercept functions e.g. obtaining mobile communications network data pursuant to lawful authority for purposes of analysis or evidence can continue to be performed. In one embodiment of this disclosure once a target subscriber is identified for a lawful intercept purpose the subscriber s data flows may be tagged and can be served through the existing packet core network of the mobile communications network.

Once implemented the systems and methods described herein reduce capital expenditures and operational expenditures in the mobile data network and monetization of the efficiency improvements by sharing existing mobile transport network with other mobile operators. These systems and methods also improve the utilization of mobile frequency spectrum by increasing the number of webpages app sessions and subscriber sessions per megahertz of spectrum. In addition the systems and methods of the present disclosure reduce RAN costs by increasing data traffic flow per cell site of a mobile data network and add value added services including without limitation location based service enablers reduction in transaction time for mobile commerce and other transaction services improved performance for near real time services e.g. stock quotes broking solutions and to offer the value added services to mobile enterprise customers as well as subscribers. Implementation of the systems and methods described herein also provide means for accelerating and monetizing Wifi content and mobile broadband content using a single mobile data network that accommodates both Wifi and mobile broadband technologies.

Optionally a system according to the present disclosure may be configured to generate data records and can feed into an existing billing support system of a mobile data network. In addition to standard records given the metering support provided to the content eco system such a system can provide fine grained micro usage records that can potentially be used by operator analytics engines for example.

Turning now to an exemplary mobile communications network is shown. The exemplary mobile communications network can comprise any type of mobile communications network including without limitation a High Rate Packet Data HRPD network a High Speed Packet Access HSPA network or a Long Term Evolution LTE network for example.

The exemplary network includes a base station controller and packet control function BSC PCF network element or servers that can be located at a local switching office not shown . Notably it should be understood that exemplary network element can be a Radio Network Controller RNC of a HSPA based network or an S1 aggregator element of an LTE based network for example. The local switching office can be in communication with one or more cell sites not shown where the cell sites receive data requests from one or more subscriber mobile devices not shown . The subscriber mobile device can be any device that can be utilized in a mobile data network including for example cell phones personal digital assistant PDA devices laptops smart phones tablets etc. In operation the base station controller and packet control function BSC PCF server or an RNC of an HSPA network sends and or receives data or information to a mobile data network interface where the mobile interface may include an AAA server a policy server and a prepaid server . The BSC PCF server represents a layer 2 termination point in a HRPD network. In a HSPA network this element may be called a Radio Network Controlled RNC and in a LTE network this element may be called an S 1 interface aggregator.

The BSC PCF server of an HRPD network or its equivalent in HSPA or LTE network is in communication with the mobile data network interface via a L2 switch or L3 switch or policy based router PBR switch or a general purpose router and a managed IP network . The BSC PCF server is also in communication with the mobile data network interface via a L2 switch or L3 switch or PBR switch or general purpose router and managed IP networks and . In an HRPD network the BSC PCF server is in communication with a PDSN server via a L2 switch or L3 switch or PBR switch or general purpose router a managed IP network and L2 switch or L3 switch or PBR switch or router . In one embodiment of this disclosure the PDSN server may communicate with an Internet datacenter through a router over an Internet connection or any other wired or wireless communications link . The PDSN server can provide management functions e.g. IP address allocation content filtering and session recovery data functions e.g. interface for traffic data messages policing of traffic data messages and deep data packet inspection and control functions e.g. interface for signaling data messages routing of data and acting as virtual local area network VLAN .

In one embodiment of this disclosure during normal operation the BSC PCF server sends data request s received from a subscriber mobile device to the PDSN server . The PDSN server in turn sends the data request s to the Internet datacenter though the Internet connection or any other wired or wireless communications link . The Internet datacenter in response to the data request s sends requested data to the PDSN server via the Internet connection and through router . The PDSN server then sends the requested data to the BSC PCF server using one or more switches routers e.g. L2 switch L3 switch or PBR switch or router over one or more managed IP networks . Once the requested data is received at the BSC PCF server it may be sent to the subscriber mobile device that made the initial data request via the cell site not shown .

Turning now to an exemplary mobile communications network according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is shown. The exemplary mobile communications network may comprise any type of mobile communications network including without limitation a High Rate Packet Data HRPD network a High Speed Packet Access HSPA network or a Long Term Evolution LTE network or operator owned WiFi access network managed through a common centralized packet core network for example.

Included in this exemplary network is an upper tier Radiolet comprising at least one processor executing computer readable instructions that receives data extracted from for example an Internet datacenter or a private cloud datacenter or privately owned application datacenter or any other type of datacenter through an Internet connection or via any other wired or wireless communications link . Notably although the exemplary network depicts a single upper tier Radiolet it should be understood that a system according to the present disclosure may include any number of upper tier Radiolets .

The upper tier Radiolet is located at or proximal to for example an Internet datacenter which in this exemplary network includes a content server and the content server is in direct communication with Internet datacenter via Internet connection or any other wired or wireless communications link . The content server may obtain data from the Internet datacenter . In one embodiment the Internet datacenter comprises datacenter . The Internet datacenter may optionally comprise at least one of a public and privately owned datacenter.

In another embodiment the upper tier Radiolet replicates at least a portion of the data extracted from the Internet datacenter and transmits the replicated data to another or a plurality of upper tier Radiolet s not shown . Notably the upper tier Radiolet may be located across a plurality of locations. The upper tier Radiolet and the other upper tier Radiolet not shown may be in communication with each other via at least one of a wired and wireless communications link.

In another embodiment one or more over the top proxy Radiolets not shown positioned between the Internet datacenter and the upper tier Radiolet may be configured to extract the data extracted from the Internet datacenter and distribute the data extracted from the Internet datacenter to the upper tier Radiolet . These over the top proxy Radiolet s not shown may each comprise at least one processor executing computer readable instructions to perform its various functions.

The upper tier Radiolet may further be configured to distribute at least a portion of the received data to one or more lower tier Radiolets upon request from the lower Radiolet s or pushed directly without request based on configured policies. Although this exemplary network depicts a single lower tier Radiolet it should be understood that a system according to the present disclosure may include any number of lower tier Radiolets in a given region.

As shown in this exemplary network the lower tier Radiolet may be located closer to the source of the data request e.g. BSC PCF sever than the Internet datacenter . Notably closer to the source may be measured in terms of network distance rather than physical distance. In an embodiment the lower tier Radiolet may be located at or proximal to a local switching site of a mobile data network . In another embodiment the lower tier Radiolet may be located between the BSC PCF server and the PDSN server of the mobile data network of an HRPD standards based mobile data network. In yet another embodiment the lower tier Radiolet may be located at every BSC PCF server of a mobile data network . In yet another embodiment the lower tier Radiolet is placed between the cell site and the local switching office at a natural aggregation site.

The lower tier Radiolet is shown in communication with the upper tier Radiolet via at least one router switch over a managed network or any other wired or wireless communications link . The upper tier Radiolet may be configured to select the data that is distributed to the lower tier Radiolet based on one or more of a frequency of requests for a particular type of data one or more networking policies one or more datacenter policies and one or more business policies. Alternatively or additionally the lower tier Radiolet may be configured to fetch data from the upper tier Radiolet . The lower tier Radiolet may also be configured to store portions of any received or fetched data as well as perform one or more of the following functions processing dynamic content data including without limitation manipulating inputted data to produce output data content caching and storing data. To do this the lower tier Radiolet may comprise at least one processor executing computer readable instructions to perform its various functions.

In operation the lower tier Radiolet may receive a data request from for example the BSC PCF server via the L2 L3 PBR switch or router and the L2 L3 PBR switch or router . In an embodiment the data request may be received at the lower tier Radiolet that is located closest to the source of said data request. In another embodiment the lower tier Radiolet may be located at a local switching site that receives the data request prior to transmitting the data request to said lower tier Radiolet .

The lower tier Radiolet may transmit in response to said data request data from the portion of received data to a source of the data request. The lower tier Radiolet may establish a flow control protocol session between the lower tier Radiolet and the source of the data request. The lower tier Radiolet may then transmit the traffic data to the source of the data request as a flow control protocol datagram.

In another embodiment one or more operator proxy Radiolets may receive data and information extracted from at least one server for example the AAA server the policy server and or the prepaid server of a core network of the mobile data network via L2 L3 PBR switch router and managed IP network . Although this exemplary network depicts a single operator proxy Radiolet it should be understood that a system according to the present disclosure may include any number of operator proxy Radiolets .

The operator proxy Radiolet may transmit at least a portion of the extracted information to the lower tier Radiolet via a router over a managed network or any other wired or wireless communications link . The extracted information may comprise information from an authentication authorization and accounting e.g. AAA server information from a policy and charging rules function e.g. PCRF server information from a real time mediation device e.g. RTMD server and or information and data from any other type of server or source. In this way the operator proxy Radiolet can support and implement various fee charging and policing interfaces or any other policy security management business etc. interfaces as part of the mobile communications network .

In an embodiment the AAA server may communicate with the PDSN server using a networking protocol such as Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS for example to provide subscriber authentication information to the PDSN server during a subscriber session. The RADIUS protocol can be a networking protocol that provides authentication authorization and accounting management for subscribers. The operator proxy Radiolet may request and receive a portion of the information from the AAA server via a router or switch and a managed IP network . The operator proxy Radiolet provides the information e.g. subscriber information and session accounting information from the AAA server to the lower tier Radiolet via router and managed network .

In another embodiment the policy server may optionally be a PCRF server. In operation the operator proxy Radiolet communicates and interfaces with the PCRF server using Gx protocols for example where Gx is an online policy interface between the PDSN and the PCRF via router or switch and a managed IP network . The operator proxy Radiolet provides information from the PCRF server to the lower tier Radiolet via router and managed network that may be used to control policy functions e.g. credit control request update and credit control request termination .

The prepaid server may optionally comprise a RTMD server. The operator proxy Radiolet optionally communicates and interfaces with the RTMD server using Diameter Gy protocols e.g. Diameter Credit Control DCCA protocol for example where Gy is an online charging interface between the PDSN and the RTMD servers via router or switch and a managed IP network . The operator proxy Radiolet provides information from the RTMD to the lower tier Radiolet via for example router and managed network that may be used to tag subscriber sessions as prepaid based on profile information of the subscriber session.

In an embodiment postpaid charging functions involve a RADIUS server not shown in communication with the lower tier Radiolet via an operator proxy Radiolet . In such an embodiment the PDSN server collects radio specific parameters e.g. Airlink Records from a Radio Access Network RAN and combines the radio specific parameters with IP network specific parameters to form one or more Usage Data Records UDR . The PDSN server can use RADIUS protocols to send the UDR information to the RADIUS server. Each UDR data packet may be associated with a correlation ID which identifies accounting records generated for a particular subscriber session and is provided to the RADIUS server by the PDSN server at the time authentication and authorization of accounting information is performed.

Similarly in one embodiment the operator proxy Radiolet may collect radio specific parameters from the RAN and combine the radio specific parameters with IP network specific parameters to form UDR and use RADIUS protocols to send the UDR information to the RADIUS server not shown . Optionally the operator proxy Radiolet may maintain the UDR information until it receives confirmation that the RADIUS server has properly received the information. If no confirmation is received from the RADIUS server within a period of time the operator proxy Radiolet may retransmit the UDR information to the RADIUS server. The operator proxy Radiolet may transmit the UDR information to other RADIUS servers.

In one embodiment various events that trigger the PDSN server to take accounting action and send the UDR information may include without limitation traffic data e.g. A10 messages connection termination at the PDSN server data service establishment PPP renegotiations on the PDSN server arrival of subscriber data and timer expiration. Various events that cause the PDSN server to stop sending UDR information may include without limitation an existing A10 connection is closed an IP flow is removed from the corresponding A10 and the PDSN server determines the packet data session associated with the Correlation ID has ended.

The operator proxy Radiolet may not require an event to trigger accounting action but may require an event to trigger UDR termination including without limitation subscriber session termination or IP flow termination.

In another embodiment the lower tier Radiolet may receive data or information from a management system server via at least one router switch over a managed network or any other wired or wireless communications link . One or more management system servers may monitor the upper tier Radiolet and lower tier Radiolet e.g. monitoring the number of active IP tunneled sessions the bandwidth usage of the subscriber sessions the nature of the data requests and the frequency of network usage .

Turning now to an exemplary network signaling data flow pathway and a traffic data flow pathway according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure is shown.

The exemplary network signaling data flow pathway comprises the carrying of network signaling data for example A11 messages in an HRPD standards based mobile data network from a subscriber mobile device to a central switching office where the data is received at a cell site then sent to a local switching office then to a regional switching office and then to a central switching office before being routed to an Internet datacenter e.g. in via the Internet point of presence PoP Peering location or the Internet connection or any other wired or wireless communications link . The regional switching office and central switching office may not be local to the area where the mobile device is located and the network signaling data served can traverse several hundreds of miles before reaching the mobile device .

The traffic data flow pathway according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure involves the lower tier Radiolet receiving a data request at a local switching site for example at a BSC PCF e.g. in from at least one subscriber mobile device . The data request is sent from the mobile device to a cell site and then is sent from the cell site to the local switching site . The data request is routed from the local switching site to the lower tier Radiolet .

The routing of the data request according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure from the local switching site to the lower tier Radiolet comprises a router s and a switch es not shown that identifies traffic data and network signaling data the router or switch separates the traffic data for example A10 messages from the network signaling data for example A11 messages the router or switch provides the network signaling data to a core network of a mobile data network and the router or switch provides the traffic data to the at least one lower tier Radiolet . The traffic data is then sent between the lower tier Radiolet the upper tier Radiolet and the Internet datacenter e.g. in bypassing the regional switching office and the central switching office .

In an embodiment the BSC PCF server e.g. in may be associated with a PDSN server e.g. in of a mobile data network e.g. in . The IP addresses of the BSC PCF server e.g. in and the associated PDSN server e.g. in may be determined by a router or switch e.g. L3 router switch in in order to separate the traffic data from the network signaling data . The traffic data between the BSC PCF server e.g. in and the PDSN server e.g. in may be identified by a Generic Routing Encapsulation GRE protocol for example using an IP protocol e.g. IP protocol type 47 . Also any data packets that are not network signaling data e.g. not A11 messages may be identified as traffic data . The traffic data is routed by the router or switch e.g. L3 router switch and in from the BSC PCF server e.g. in to the lower tier Radiolet . Traffic data may also be routed via the router or switch e.g. L3 router switch and and managed IP network e.g. in to the PDSN server e.g. in . In an embodiment the lower tier Radiolet may be configured to intercept domain name system DNS query packets from the BSC PCF server e.g. in and respond to the query to obtain the traffic data . In order for the traffic data to maintain its properties the lower tier Radiolet may utilize an appropriate GRE key and BSC PCF and PDSN IP addresses. The GRE key is used to create a traffic data tunneling connection between the lower tier Radiolet and BSC PCF server e.g. in and the traffic data is routed from the lower tier Radiolet to the BSC PCF server e.g. in and ultimately to the subscriber mobile device . In an embodiment a single traffic data connection is implemented per subscriber where multiple IP flows are implemented into the one traffic data connection. The traffic data may be packed into a Point to Point Protocol PPP stream. Since the PPP stream may require an in sequence delivery of traffic packets the lower tier Radiolet may sync its traffic data sequencing with the traffic data sequencing from the BSC PCF server e.g. in and PDSN server e.g. in .

The network signaling data is then routed by a router or switch e.g. L3 router switch and between the BSC PCF e.g. in and the associated PDSN e.g. in without modification. In one embodiment the network signaling data may be examined for example to identify relevant data or information contained in the network signaling data . The network signaling data may be routed via a router or switch e.g. L3 router switch and to the lower tier Radiolet for examination by the lower tier Radiolet and then routed to the BSC PCF server e.g. in or PDSN e.g. in server. The lower tier Radiolet may obtain the GRE key and traffic data sequencing for the traffic data connection through examination of the network signaling data .

In another exemplary embodiment according to the present disclosure a method for data packet flow may provide for subscriber access to a fictitious Internet site e.g. www.xyz.com . According to this example a subscriber may power up a mobile device which in turn discovers a mobile communications network using methods known or later known in the art including without limitation probes pilots and control data that is transmitted by the mobile device. The control data may be sent by the mobile device as long as the Internet site is still being downloaded or if the mobile device is in the middle of an active session. The mobile device may receive discovery messages from the mobile communications network and register at the link layer using methods known or later known in the art. The mobile device may then register with a core network of the mobile communications network which enables the mobile device to authenticate with the network obtain network addresses both visited IP and home IP addresses and establish a mobile session.

Next the mobile device may send a domain name system DNS request for www.xyz.com. This request packet may be identified by software of a lower tier Radiolet and directed to an appropriate hosting Radiolet or virtual Radiolet at the lower tier Radiolet that is close geographically to the subscriber. The appropriate lower tier Radiolet or virtual Radiolet may resolve the domain name and translate it to a local IP address on a lower tier Radiolet or virtual Radiolet hosted at or near the same location. This resolved packet may then be sent back to the subscriber mobile device. The mobile device may then send a request for a specific piece of content on the website using an Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP get request packet with the source IP address as itself and the destination IP address equal to the resolved IP address of the host server obtained by sending the resolved packet back to the subscriber mobile device . The lower tier Radiolet or virtual Radiolet may then establish a TCP session and start to deliver content to the mobile device where the flow control algorithm and parameters may be modified and adapted based on previous history of bandwidth estimates between the server and mobile device. Such history information may be shared across servers and virtual servers that are housed in the same location. After all requested data packets are delivered the HTTP session may be terminated.

In one embodiment of this disclosure the content delivered to the mobile device is readily available at the hosting location e.g. at the lower tier Radiolet . If the content is not readily available at the lower tier Radiolet then the upper tier Radiolet may fetch content through a back to back B2B User Agent from the internet datacenter. The B2B User Agent may serve as a client to the internet datacenter and as a server to the mobile device.

The details of the number of data bytes and related information may then be reported by the lower tier Radiolet to both operator network billing systems and cloud datacenter metering systems.

In the above exemplary embodiment the appropriate hosting lower tier Radiolet may be located very close to the subscriber and before the start of the Mobile Middle Mile . This allows for the round trip time RTT to be reduced thereby leading to reduction in mobile latency. By reducing the mobile latency the amount of control data sent by the mobile device during the download is also reduced. Also once the delivery of the webpage is complete more webpages for the same subscriber mobile device or new webpages for a different subscriber mobile device can begin to be delivered which can allow for improvement in radio efficiency.

Additionally in the above exemplary embodiment the appropriate network awareness to the application and application awareness to the network may be created using at least one network API and or at least application API thereby improving subscriber QoE.

Furthermore optimizations may be added to flow control providing for further reduction in mobile latency along with simultaneous improvements in radio efficiency. Also given that traffic data does not traverse the Mobile Middle Mile the amount of traffic data handled by the core network of a mobile communications network is reduced which can lead to corresponding improvements in efficiencies. Finally neither the operator network nor the cloud datacenter need to be upgraded.

In yet another exemplary embodiment a method of reducing a round trip time RTT for traffic packets is provided. The method provides content to a content requestor where the content can be one or more of static content dynamic content a real time or delayed media feed application data or any other type of content and can be in the form of traffic data packets. The method provides for a reduction of an end to end latency of a session where the session can one or more of a webpage a data stream and an application.

The method includes identifying by a processor executing computer readable instructions a location of a data requestor where the requestor requests traffic data packets. The requestor can be a subscriber or subscriber mobile device of a mobile data network. Then identifying by a processor executing computer readable instructions a content distribution entity configured to provide the requested traffic packets. The content distribution entity can be a Radiolet and can be located proximate to a location of the data requestor. Notably proximate may optionally refer to a measure of network distance rather than physical distance. A processor executing computer readable instructions can then transmit the requested traffic packets to the requestor from the proximate content distribution entity.

The method may also include pushing content and application data from one or more content providers to the content distribution entity in real time and storing the content at the content distribution entity for current and or future requests. The distribution entity may optionally transmit up to date traffic packets in response to traffic packet requests.

Transmitting the requested content and application data packets from the proximate content or application data distribution entity can reduce a session time and can simultaneously reduce the load on a wireless communication link by reducing reverse link traffic attributed to control layer messages. The method can further include servicing additional traffic packets via the same shared wireless communication link.

In yet another exemplary embodiment a method may improve mobile data network efficiency and can improve the efficiency of an internet datacenter by reducing the number of content and or application sessions hosted in the datacenter.

The method includes separating by a processor executing computer readable instructions signaling and management function data from traffic function data. The management function data may be provided by a management entity and the traffic function data may be provided by a traffic entity. The method may further include receiving by a Radiolet one or more requests for traffic data and identifying and separating by a processor executing computer readable instructions traffic data packets from signaling data packets included in the requests for traffic data.

The method may also include identifying by a processor executing computer readable instructions a location of a source of the requests for traffic data and a traffic entity closest to the source and servicing the traffic packets from a proximate traffic entity or the closest traffic entity. Servicing traffic packets from the proximate traffic entity or the closest traffic entity may reduce a session time and reduce the load on a wireless communication link or datacenter by reducing reverse link traffic attributed to control layer messages. Notably proximate may refer to a measure of network distance rather than physical distance. The method may also include servicing additional traffic packets via the same shared wireless communication link.

The method may further include servicing the signaling data packets via the existing packet core network entity and applying various methods related to flow control and resource management in the traffic plane. Appropriate parameters may be chosen as input to the flow control and resource management methods.

In still another exemplary embodiment a method may provide for mobile latency reduction and more generally improvement in application performance. The method includes transmitting data content from Internet sites or enterprises to upper tier Radiolets located at upper tier Radiolet locations and replicating transmitting and storing the data content at additional upper tier Radiolets located at additional upper tier Radiolet locations. Determining which additional upper tier Radiolet locations receive the replicated data content may be based on a combination of predetermined static and dynamic rules. The method may also include replicating and transmitting the data content directly to lower tier Radiolets from the upper tier Radiolets .

The method includes delivering content or application data in response to requests for traffic data from a requestor to the lower tier Radiolet closest to the requestor. The delivering content or application data step may include identifying by a processor executing computer readable instructions a location of the requestor identifying and separating traffic packets from signaling packets included in the requests for traffic data transmitting all signaling traffic packets to a network entity and transmitting all traffic packets to the lower tier Radiolet closest to the requestor. The lower tier Radiolet may then transmit requested traffic data to the requestor.

In yet another exemplary embodiment a method includes receiving by a Radiolet one or more requests for traffic data and separating by a processor executing computer readable instructions signaling and management functions from traffic functions such that the signaling and management functions are provided by a management entity and the traffic functions are provided by a traffic entity. The traffic entity may comprise a content distribution entity.

The method includes identifying and separating by a processor executing computer readable instructions traffic packets from signaling packets included in the one or more requests for traffic data and identifying a content distribution entity configured to provide the requested traffic data. The content distribution entity may be located proximate to the determined location of the requestor.

The method may further include servicing the signaling packets via the existing packet core network entity transmitting the requested traffic data to the requestor from the proximate content distribution entity and applying various methods related to flow control and resource management.

In a further exemplary embodiment any of the features and or method steps described herein may be embodied in and or implemented by any of the systems devices processors or apparatus described herein. Moreover any of the method steps described herein may be implemented in an operator network and or an Internet cloud datacenter using existing equipment and apparatus by implementing one or more software applications having computer readable instructions that when executed cause said existing equipment and apparatus to perform or exhibit one or more of the method steps and or features described in this disclosure.

A system according to the present disclosure may comprise one or more computer devices comprising one or more processors configured to execute computer readable instructions that when executed cause said one or more computer devices to perform any of the method steps and or exhibit any of the features described herein. The computing devices may include any combination of and any number of Radiolets datacenters computers data sources data request sources servers mobile communication devices smart phones tablets any other mobile telecommunication and or mobile data network elements and or any other computing and or communication devices.

Notably the systems and methods described herein are not limited to typical mobile communications. Instead the systems and methods described herein may be in connection with mobile entertainment enablement solutions mobile infotainment enablement solutions mobile ad tech enablement solutions mobile social media enablement solutions mobile commerce enablement solutions mobile enterprise application enablement solutions mobile peer to peer enablement solutions mobile communications enablement solutions mobile enterprise application enablement solutions and other mobile solutions such as toll free data enablement solutions.

While the present disclosure has been discussed in terms of certain embodiments it should be appreciated that the present disclosure is not so limited. The embodiments are explained herein by way of example and there are numerous modifications variations and other embodiments that may be employed that would still be within the scope of the present disclosure.

