---

title: Crystalline bromodomain inhibitors
abstract: N-[4-(2,4-difluorophenoxy)-3-(6-methyl-7-oxo-6,7-dihydro-1H-pyrrolo[2,3-c]pyridin-4-yl)phenyl]ethanesulfonamide and crystalline forms thereof are suitable pharmaceutical ingredients for pharmaceutical compositions useful in the treatment of disease, for example, cancer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09321765&OS=09321765&RS=09321765
owner: AbbVie Inc.
number: 09321765
owner_city: North Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140627
---
This patent application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 840 777 filed Jun. 28 2013. The entire text of this application is incorporated by reference into this patent application.

Bromodomains refer to conserved protein structural folds which bind to N acetylated lysine residues that are found in some proteins. The BET family of bromodomain containing proteins is comprised of four members BRD2 BRD3 BRD4 and BRDt . Each member of the BET family employs two bromodomains to recognize N acetylated lysine residues found primarily but not exclusively on the amino terminal tails of histone proteins. These interactions modulate gene expression by recruiting transcription factors to specific genome locations within chromatin. For example histone bound BRD4 recruits the transcription factor P TEFb to promoters resulting in the expression of a subset of genes involved in cell cycle progression Yang et al. Mol. Cell. Biol. 28 967 976 2008 . BRD2 and BRD3 also function as transcriptional regulators of growth promoting genes LeRoy et al. Mol. Cell. 30 51 60 2008 . BET family members were recently established as being important for the maintenance of several cancer types Zuber et al. Nature 478 524 528 2011 Mertz et al Proc. Nat l. Acad. Sci. 108 16669 16674 2011 Delmore et al. Cell 146 1 14 2011 Dawson et al. Nature 478 529 533 2011 . BET family members have also been implicated in mediating acute inflammatory responses through the canonical NF KB pathway Huang et al. Mol. Cell. Biol. 29 1375 1387 2009 resulting in the upregulation of genes associated with the production of cytokines Nicodeme et al. Nature 468 1119 1123 2010 . Suppression of cytokine induction by BET bromodomain inhibitors has been shown to be an effective approach to treat inflammation mediated kidney disease in an animal model Zhang et al. J. Biol. Chem. 287 28840 28851 2012 . BRD2 function has been linked to predisposition for dyslipidemia or improper regulation of adipogenesis elevated inflammatory profiles and increased susceptibility to autoimmune diseases Denis Discovery Medicine 10 489 499 2010 . The human immunodeficiency virus utilizes BRD4 to initiate transcription of viral RNA from stably integrated viral DNA Jang et al. Mol. Cell 19 523 534 2005 . Treatment of db db mice with a BET specific bromodomain inhibitor has been shown to attenuate proteinuria thus providing a potential new treatment for diabetic nephropathy Liu et al. Role of Transcription Factor Acetylation in Diabetic Kidney Disease Diabetes DOI 10.2337 db13 1810 2014 . BET bromodomain inhibitors have also been shown to reactivate HIV transcription in models of latent T cell infection and latent monocyte infection Banerjee et al J. Leukocyte Biol. 92 6 1147 1154 2012 . BRDt has an important role in spermatogenesis that is blocked by BET bromodomain inhibitors Matzuk et al. Cell 150 673 684 2012 . Studies with BET inhibitors have demonstrated proof of concept efficacy in animal models of sepsis and endotoxic shock Nicodeme et al. Nature 468 1119 1123 2010 insulin resistance and hepatic steatosis Bradner et al. Composition and methods for modulating metabolism. WO2011 143651A1 idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis Tang et l. Am. J. Pathol. 183 470 479 2013 and heart failure Spiltoir et al. J. Mol. Cellular. Cardiol. 63 175 179 2013 Anand et al. Cell 154 569 582 2013 . Accordingly there is an ongoing medical need to develop new drugs and crystalline forms thereof to treat these indications.

In one aspect the present invention relates to an isolated crystalline form of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide wherein the crystalline form has a powder X ray diffraction pattern comprising three or more 2 peak values 0.2 selected from the group consisting of 6.2 9.0 12.3 12.6 15.6 22.1 25.6 26.3 27.0 and 27.3 . In one aspect the present invention relates to an isolated crystalline form of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide wherein the crystalline form has a powder X ray diffraction pattern comprising the following 2 peak values 0.2 6.2 9.0 12.3 12.6 15.6 22.1 25.6 26.3 27.0 and 27.3 . In certain embodiments the powder X ray diffraction pattern comprises the following 2 peak values 0.2 6.2 9.0 11.0 12.3 12.6 13.1 14.1 15.6 16.4 16.5 16.9 17.8 18.1 18.3 18.9 20.4 21.1 21.6 21.8 22.1 22.9 23.2 24.4 24.7 25.6 26.3 27.0 and 27.3 . In certain embodiments the powder X ray diffraction pattern comprises three four five or six 20 peak values 0.2 selected from the group consisting of 6.2 9.0 12.3 12.6 15.6 22.1 25.6 26.3 27.0 and 27.3 . In certain embodiments the powder X ray diffraction pattern comprises six 2 peak values 0.2 selected from the group consisting of 6.2 9.0 12.3 12.6 15.6 22.1 25.6 26.3 27.0 and 27.3 . In certain embodiments the powder X ray diffraction pattern comprises five 2 peak values 0.2 selected from the group consisting of 6.2 9.0 12.3 12.6 15.6 22.1 25.6 26.3 27.0 and 27.3 . In certain embodiments the powder X ray diffraction pattern comprises four 2 peak values 0.2 selected from the group consisting of 6.2 9.0 12.3 12.6 15.6 22.1 25.6 26.3 27.0 and 27.3 . In certain embodiments the powder X ray diffraction pattern comprises three 2 peak values 0.2 selected from the group consisting of 6.2 9.0 12.3 12.6 15.6 22.1 25.6 26.3 27.0 and 27.3 . In certain embodiments the powder X ray diffraction pattern comprises the following 20 peak values 0.2 6.2 9.0 12.3 12.6 15.6 22.1 25.6 26.3 27.0 and 27.3 . In certain embodiments the powder X ray diffraction pattern comprises the following 20 peak values 0.2 6.2 9.0 12.3 12.6 and 15.6 . In certain embodiments the powder X ray diffraction pattern comprises the following 2 peak values 0.2 22.1 25.6 26.3 27.0 and 27.3 . In certain embodiments the powder X ray diffraction pattern comprises peak values 0.2 at 2 positions 6.2 9.0 12.3 12.6 13.1 14.1 16.4 16.5 16.9 17.8 18.1 18.3 and 18.9 . In certain embodiments the powder X ray diffraction pattern comprises peak values 0.2 at 2 positions 6.2 9.0 12.3 12.6 13.1 14.1 18.1 and 18.9 . In certain embodiments the powder X ray diffraction pattern comprises peak values 0.2 at 2 positions 6.2 9.0 12.3 12.6 13.1 and 18.1 . In certain embodiments the powder X ray diffraction pattern comprises peak values 0.2 at 2 positions 9.0 12.3 12.6 13.1 and 18.1 . In certain embodiments crystalline form II has a differential scanning calorimetry thermogram endotherm between 240 and 242 C. In certain embodiments crystalline form II has a differential scanning calorimetry thermogram endotherm at approximately 241 C. In certain embodiments the endotherm is determined using DSC at a heating rate of 10 C. min. In certain embodiments the powder X ray diffraction pattern comprises peak values 0.2 at 2 positions 6.2 9.0 11.0 12.2 12.6 13.1 14.1 15.5 16.3 16.5 16.9 17.8 18.0 18.3 18.9 20.4 21.0 21.6 21.8 22.1 22.9 23.2 24.4 24.6 25.5 26.3 26.9 and 27.2. In certain embodiments the powder X ray diffraction pattern comprises peak values 0.2 at 2 positions 0.2 selected from the group consisting of 6.2 9.0 12.2 12.6 15.5 22.1 25.5 26.3 26.9 and 27.2 .

In another aspect the present invention relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In certain embodiments the pharmaceutical composition is a solid dosage form.

In another aspect the present invention relates to methods for treating cancer in a subject comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier to a subject in need thereof. In certain embodiments the cancer is selected from the group consisting of acoustic neuroma acute leukemia acute lymphocytic leukemia acute myelocytic leukemia monocytic myeloblastic adenocarcinoma angiosarcoma astrocytoma myelomonocytic and promyelocytic acute t cell leukemia basal cell carcinoma bile duct carcinoma bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bronchogenic carcinoma cervical cancer chondrosarcoma chordoma choriocarcinoma chronic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic myelocytic granulocytic leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia colon cancer colorectal cancer craniopharyngioma cystadenocarcinoma diffuse large B cell lymphoma dysproliferative changes dysplasias and metaplasias embryonal carcinoma endometrial cancer endotheliosarcoma ependymoma epithelial carcinoma erythroleukemia esophageal cancer estrogen receptor positive breast cancer essential thrombocythemia Ewing s tumor fibrosarcoma follicular lymphoma germ cell testicular cancer glioma glioblastoma gliosarcoma heavy chain disease hemangioblastoma hepatoma hepatocellular cancer hormone insensitive prostate cancer leiomyosarcoma leukemia liposarcoma lung cancer lymphagioendotheliosarcoma lymphangiosarcoma lymphoblastic leukemia lymphoma Hodgkin s and non Hodgkin s malignancies and hyperproliferative disorders of the bladder breast colon lung ovaries pancreas prostate skin and uterus lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin leukemia lymphoma medullary carcinoma medulloblastoma melanoma meningioma mesothelioma multiple myeloma myelogenous leukemia myeloma myxosarcoma neuroblastoma NUT midline carcinoma NMC non small cell lung cancer oligodendroglioma oral cancer osteogenic sarcoma ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer papillary adenocarcinomas papillary carcinoma pinealoma polycythemia vera prostate cancer rectal cancer renal cell carcinoma retinoblastoma rhabdomyosarcoma sarcoma sebaceous gland carcinoma seminoma skin cancer small cell lung carcinoma solid tumors carcinomas and sarcomas small cell lung cancer stomach cancer squamous cell carcinoma synovioma sweat gland carcinoma thyroid cancer Waldenstr m s macroglobulinemia testicular tumors uterine cancer and Wilms tumor. In certain embodiments the method further comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one additional therapeutic agent. In certain embodiments the additional therapeutic agent is selected from the group consisting of cytarabine bortezomib and 5 azacitidine.

In another aspect the present invention relates to a method of treating a disease or condition in a subject comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a crystalline Form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide to a subject in need thereof wherein said disease or condition is selected from the group consisting of Addison s disease acute gout ankylosing spondylitis asthma atherosclerosis Behcet s disease bullous skin diseases cardiac myopathy cardiac hypertrophy chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD Crohn s disease dermatitis eczema giant cell arteritis glomerulonephritis heart failure hepatitis hypophysitis inflammatory bowel disease Kawasaki disease lupus nephritis multiple sclerosis myocarditis myositis nephritis organ transplant rejection osteoarthritis pancreatitis pericarditis Polyarteritis nodosa pneumonitis primary biliary cirrhosis psoriasis psoriatic arthritis rheumatoid arthritis scleritis sclerosing cholangitis sepsis systemic lupus erythematosus Takayasu s Arteritis toxic shock thyroiditis type I diabetes ulcerative colitis uveitis vitiligo vasculitis and Wegener s granulomatosis. In certain embodiments the method further comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one additional therapeutic agent.

In another aspect the present invention relates to a method of treating a chronic kidney disease or condition in a subject comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a crystalline Form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide to a subject in need thereof wherein said disease or condition is selected from the group consisting of diabetic nephropathy hypertensive nephropathy HIV associated nephropathy glomerulonephritis lupus nephritis IgA nephropathy focal segmental glomerulosclerosis membranous glomerulonephritis minimal change disease polycystic kidney disease and tubular interstitial nephritis. In certain embodiments the method further comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one additional therapeutic agent.

In another aspect the present invention relates to a method of treating an acute kidney injury or disease or condition in a subject comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a crystalline Form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide to a subject in need thereof wherein said acute kidney injury or disease or condition is selected from the group consisting of ischemia reperfusion induced kidney disease cardiac and major surgery induced kidney disease percutaneous coronary intervention induced kidney disease radio contrast agent induced kidney disease sepsis induced kidney disease pneumonia induced kidney disease and drug toxicity induced kidney disease. In certain embodiments the method further comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one additional therapeutic agent.

In another aspect the present invention relates to methods of treating AIDS in a subject comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a crystalline Form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide to a subject in need thereof. In certain embodiments the method further comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one additional therapeutic agent.

In another aspect the present invention relates to a method of treating obesity dyslipidemia hypercholesterolemia Alzheimer s disease metabolic syndrome hepatic steatosis type II diabetes insulin resistance diabetic retinopathy or diabetic neuropathy in a subject comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a crystalline Form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide to a subject in need thereof. In certain embodiments the method further comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one additional therapeutic agent.

In another aspect the present invention relates to a methods of contraception in a male subject comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a crystalline Form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide to a subject in need thereof. In certain embodiments the method further comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one additional therapeutic agent.

A further aspect of the invention provides the use of a crystalline Form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide alone or in combination with at least one additional therapeutic agent in the manufacture of a medicament for treating or preventing conditions and disorders disclosed herein with or without a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In certain embodiments the invention provides the use of a crystalline Form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide alone or in combination with at least one additional therapeutic agent in the manufacture of a medicament for treating cancer with or without a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

As mentioned above crystalline Form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may provide advantages in formulating pharmaceutical compositions. Accordingly one aspect of the present invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising the N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide in crystalline form and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In a further embodiment the composition according to the present invention comprises N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide Form II as described above alone or in combination with a second therapeutic agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

Another aspect relates to a process for preparing crystalline Form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide.

In another aspect the present invention relates to methods of making a pharmaceutical composition comprising N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprising mixing an isolated crystalline form of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide wherein the crystalline form has a powder X ray diffraction pattern comprising three or more 2 peak values 0.2 selected from the group consisting of 6.2 9.0 12.3 12.6 15.6 22.1 25.6 26.3 27.0 and 27.3 with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

In another aspect the present invention relates to compositions comprising greater than 90 w w crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide wherein the crystalline form has a powder X ray diffraction pattern comprising three or more 2 peak values 0.2 selected from the group consisting of 6.2 9.0 12.3 12.6 15.6 22.1 25.6 26.3 27.0 and 27.3 . In certain embodiments the composition comprises between 90 99 w w crystalline form II.

N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide can be prepared as a crystalline form which is termed crystalline Form II. As used herein a crystalline form of a compound refers to the same chemical entity but in a different crystalline arrangement. N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide is an inhibitor of human BRD4 and of the proliferation of the breast cancer cell line MX 1.

It is noted that as used in this specification and the intended claims the singular form a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a compound includes a single compound as well as one or more of the same or different compounds reference to a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier refers to a single pharmaceutically acceptable carrier as well as one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers and the like.

When used in reference to crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide which is greater than about 90 pure. This means that the N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide crystal form II does not contain more than about 10 of any other compound and in particular does not contain more than about 10 of crystal form I. More preferably the term substantially pure refers to crystalline Form II which is greater than about 95 pure. This means that crystalline Form II does not contain more than about 5 of any other compound and in particular does not contain more than about 5 of crystalline Form I. Even more preferably the term substantially pure refers to crystalline Form II which is greater than about 97 pure. This means that crystalline Form II does not contain more than about 3 of any other compound and in particular does not contain more than about 3 of crystalline Form I.

The crystalline Form I of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may also be referred to as Form I of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide or by similar expressions and is having the physiochemical parameters outlined herein. The crystalline Form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may also be referred to as Form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide or by similar terms and is having the physiochemical parameters outlined herein.

In certain aspects the present invention further relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide Form II and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The crystalline forms of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide for example Form II can be useful as an active pharmaceutical ingredient API in the preparation of pharmaceutical compositions suitable for any route of administration including oral to a subject in need thereof. Other routes of administration include without limitation parenteral sublingual buccal intranasal pulmonary topical transdermal intradermal ocular otic rectal vaginal intragastric intracranial intrasynovial and intra articular routes.

N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide is present in a pharmaceutical composition of the invention in an amount that can be therapeutically effective when the composition is administered to a subject in need thereof according to an appropriate regimen. Typically a unit dose the amount administered at a single time which can be administered at an appropriate frequency e.g. twice daily to once weekly is about 10 to about 1 000 mg depending on the compound in question. Where frequency of administration is once daily q.d. unit dose and daily dose are the same. Illustratively the unit dose is typically about 25 to about 1 000 mg more typically about 50 to about 500 mg for example about 50 about 100 about 150 about 200 about 250 about 300 about 350 about 400 about 450 or about 500 mg.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier as used herein means a non toxic inert solid semi solid or liquid filler diluent encapsulating material or formulation auxiliary of any type. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers include but are not limited to for example encapsulating materials and additives such as absorption accelerators antioxidants binders buffers carriers coating agents coloring agents diluents disintegrating agents emulsifiers extenders fillers flavoring agents glidants humectants lubricants perfumes preservatives propellants releasing agents sterilizing agents sweeteners solubilizers wetting agents mixtures thereof and the like.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers for the preparation of formulations comprising or made with crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide to be administered orally in solid dosage form include for example agar alginic acid aluminum hydroxide benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate 1 3 butylene glycol carbomers castor oil cellulose cellulose acetate cocoa butter copovidone corn starch corn oil cottonseed oil cross povidone diglycerides ethanol ethyl cellulose ethyl laureate ethyl oleate fatty acid esters gelatin germ oil glucose glycerol groundnut oil hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose isopropanol isotonic saline lactose magnesium hydroxide magnesium stearate malt mannitol monoglycerides olive oil povidone peanut oil potassium phosphate salts potato starch povidone propylene glycol Ringer s solution safflower oil sesame oil silicon dioxide sodium carboxymethyl cellulose sodium phosphate salts sodium lauryl sulfate sodium sorbitol sodium stearylfumarate soybean oil stearic acids stearyl fumarate sucrose surfactants talc tragacanth tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol triglycerides vitamin E and derivatives thereof water mixtures thereof and the like.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers for the preparation of formulations comprising or made with crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide to be administered ophthalmically or orally in liquid dosage forms include for example 1 3 butylene glycol castor oil corn oil cottonseed oil ethanol fatty acid esters of sorbitan germ oil groundnut oil glycerol isopropanol olive oil polyethylene glycols propylene glycol sesame oil water mixtures thereof and the like.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers for the preparation of formulations comprising or made with crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide to be administered osmotically include for example chlorofluorohydrocarbons ethanol water mixtures thereof and the like.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers for the preparation of formulations comprising or made with crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide to be administered parenterally include for example 1 3 butanediol castor oil corn oil cottonseed oil dextrose germ oil groundnut oil liposomes oleic acid olive oil peanut oil Ringer s solution safflower oil sesame oil soybean oil U.S.P. or isotonic sodium chloride solution water mixtures thereof and the like.

Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers for the preparation of formulations comprising or made with crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide to be administered rectally or vaginally include but are not limited to cocoa butter polyethylene glycol wax mixtures thereof and the like.

The composition is normally administered in an amount providing a therapeutically effective daily dose of the drug. The term daily dose herein means the amount of drug administered per day regardless of the frequency of administration. For example if the subject receives a unit dose of 150 mg twice daily the daily dose is 300 mg. Use of the term daily dose will be understood not to imply that the specified dosage amount is necessarily administered once daily. However in a particular embodiment the dosing frequency is once daily q.d. and the daily dose and unit dose in this embodiment are the same.

What constitutes a therapeutically effective dose depends on the particular compound the subject including species and body weight of the subject the disease e.g. the particular type of cancer to be treated the stage and or severity of the disease the individual subject s tolerance of the compound whether the compound is administered in monotherapy or in combination with one or more other drugs e.g. other chemotherapeutics for treatment of cancer and other factors. Thus the daily dose can vary within wide margins for example from about 10 to about 1 000 mg. Greater or lesser daily doses may be appropriate in specific situations. It will be understood that recitation herein of a therapeutically effective dose herein does not necessarily require that the drug be therapeutically effective if only a single such dose is administered typically therapeutic efficacy depends on the composition being administered repeatedly according to a regimen involving appropriate frequency and duration of administration. A suitable therapeutically effective dose can be selected by the physician of ordinary skill without undue experimentation. The physician may for example start a cancer patient on a course of therapy with a relatively low daily dose and titrate the dose upwards over a period of days or weeks to reduce risk of adverse side effects.

Illustratively suitable doses of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide are generally about 10 to about 1 000 mg day more typically about 50 to about 500 mg day or about 200 to about 400 mg day for example about 50 about 100 about 150 about 200 about 250 about 300 about 350 about 400 about 450 or about 500 mg day administered at an average dosage interval of 3 to 10 days or about 4 to 8 days or about 7 days.

A composition comprising crystalline N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide Form II suitable for use in monotherapy or in combination therapy for example with other chemotherapeutics or with ionizing radiation.

Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide and pharmaceutical compositions comprising crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide can be administered to a subject suffering from a bromodomain mediated disorder or condition. The term administering refers to the method of contacting a compound with a subject. Thus the crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide can be administered by injection that is intravenously intramuscularly intracutaneously subcutaneously intraduodenally parentally or intraperitoneally. It can also be administered by inhalation for example intranasally. Additionally crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide can be administered transdermally topically via implantation transdermally topically and via implantation. In certain embodiments crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may be delivered orally. In other embodiments crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide can also be delivered rectally bucally intravaginally ocularly or by insufflation. Bromodomain mediated disorders and conditions can be treated prophylactically acutely and chronically using a crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide depending on the nature of the disorder or condition.

A bromodomain mediated disorder or condition is characterized by the participation of one or more bromodomains e.g. BRD4 in the inception manifestation of one or more symptoms or disease markers severity or progression of a disorder or condition.

Accordingly crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may be used to treat cancer including but not limited to acoustic neuroma acute leukemia acute lymphocytic leukemia acute myelocytic leukemia monocytic myeloblastic adenocarcinoma angiosarcoma astrocytoma myelomonocytic and promyelocytic acute t cell leukemia basal cell carcinoma bile duct carcinoma bladder cancer brain cancer breast cancer bronchogenic carcinoma cervical cancer chondrosarcoma chordoma choriocarcinoma chronic leukemia chronic lymphocytic leukemia chronic myelocytic granulocytic leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia colon cancer colorectal cancer craniopharyngioma cystadenocarcinoma diffuse large B cell lymphoma dysproliferative changes dysplasias and metaplasias embryonal carcinoma endometrial cancer endotheliosarcoma ependymoma epithelial carcinoma erythroleukemia esophageal cancer estrogen receptor positive breast cancer essential thrombocythemia Ewing s tumor fibrosarcoma follicular lymphoma germ cell testicular cancer glioma glioblastoma gliosarcoma heavy chain disease hemangioblastoma hepatoma hepatocellular cancer hormone insensitive prostate cancer leiomyosarcoma leukemia liposarcoma lung cancer lymphagioendotheliosarcoma lymphangiosarcoma lymphoblastic leukemia lymphoma Hodgkin s and non Hodgkin s malignancies and hyperproliferative disorders of the bladder breast colon lung ovaries pancreas prostate skin and uterus lymphoid malignancies of T cell or B cell origin leukemia lymphoma medullary carcinoma medulloblastoma melanoma meningioma mesothelioma multiple myeloma myelogenous leukemia myeloma myxosarcoma neuroblastoma NUT midline carcinoma NMC non small cell lung cancer oligodendroglioma oral cancer osteogenic sarcoma ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer papillary adenocarcinomas papillary carcinoma pinealoma polycythemia vera prostate cancer rectal cancer renal cell carcinoma retinoblastoma rhabdomyosarcoma sarcoma sebaceous gland carcinoma seminoma skin cancer small cell lung carcinoma solid tumors carcinomas and sarcomas small cell lung cancer stomach cancer squamous cell carcinoma synovioma sweat gland carcinoma thyroid cancer Waldenstr m s macroglobulinemia testicular tumors uterine cancer and Wilms tumor.

Further crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may be used to treat inflammatory diseases inflammatory conditions and autoimmune diseases including but not limited to Addison s disease acute gout ankylosing spondylitis asthma atherosclerosis Behcet s disease bullous skin diseases cardiac myopathy cardiac hypertrophy chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD Crohn s disease dermatitis eczema giant cell arteritis glomerulonephritis heart failure hepatitis hypophysitis inflammatory bowel disease Kawasaki disease lupus nephritis multiple sclerosis myocarditis myositis nephritis organ transplant rejection osteoarthritis pancreatitis pericarditis Polyarteritis nodosa pneumonitis primary biliary cirrhosis psoriasis psoriatic arthritis rheumatoid arthritis scleritis sclerosing cholangitis sepsis systemic lupus erythematosus Takayasu s Arteritis toxic shock thyroiditis type I diabetes ulcerative colitis uveitis vitiligo vasculitis and Wegener s granulomatosis.

Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may be used to treat AIDS.

Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may be used to treat chronic kidney disease or condition including but are not limited to diabetic nephropathy hypertensive nephropathy HIV associated nephropathy glomerulonephritis lupus nephritis IgA nephropathy focal segmental glomerulosclerosis membranous glomerulonephritis minimal change disease polycystic kidney disease and tubular interstitial nephritis.

Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may be used to treat acute kidney injury or disease or condition including but are not limited to ischemia reperfusion induced cardiac and major surgery induced percutaneous coronary intervention induced radio contrast agent induced sepsis induced pneumonia induced and drug toxicity induced.

Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may be used to treat obesity dyslipidemia hypercholesterolemia Alzheimer s disease metabolic syndrome hepatic steatosis type II diabetes insulin resistance diabetic retinopathy or diabetic neuropathy.

Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may be used to prevent conception by inhibiting spermatogenesis in a subject comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide to a subject in need thereof.

Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide can be co administered to a subject. The term co administered means the administration of two or more different pharmaceutical agents or treatments e.g. radiation treatment that are administered to a subject by combination in the same pharmaceutical composition or separate pharmaceutical compositions. Thus co administration involves administration at the same time of a single pharmaceutical composition comprising two or more therapeutic agents or administration of two or more different compositions to the same subject at the same or different times.

Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide can be co administered with a therapeutically effective amount of one or more agents to treat a cancer where examples of the agents include such as radiation alkylating agents angiogenesis inhibitors antibodies antimetabolites antimitotics antiproliferatives antivirals aurora kinase inhibitors apoptosis promoters for example Bcl xL Bcl w and Bfl 1 inhibitors activators of death receptor pathway Bcr Abl kinase inhibitors BiTE Bi Specific T cell Engager antibodies antibody drug conjugates biologic response modifiers cyclin dependent kinase inhibitors cell cycle inhibitors cyclooxygenase 2 inhibitors DVDs dual variable domain antibodies leukemia viral oncogene homolog ErbB2 receptor inhibitors growth factor inhibitors heat shock protein HSP 90 inhibitors histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitors hormonal therapies immunologicals inhibitors of inhibitors of apoptosis proteins IAPB intercalating antibiotics kinase inhibitors kinesin inhibitors Jak2 inhibitors mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors microRNA s mitogen activated extracellular signal regulated kinase inhibitors multivalent binding proteins non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs poly ADP adenosine diphosphate ribose polymerase PARP inhibitors platinum chemotherapeutics polo like kinase Plk inhibitors phosphoinositide 3 kinase bromodomain inhibitors proteosome inhibitors purine analogs pyrimidine analogs receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors etinoids deltoids plant alkaloids small inhibitory ribonucleic acids siRNAs topoisomerase inhibitors ubiquitin ligase inhibitors and the like and in combination with one or more of these agents.

BiTE antibodies are bi specific antibodies that direct T cells to attack cancer cells by simultaneously binding the two cells. The T cell then attacks the target cancer cell. Examples of BiTE antibodies include adecatumumab Micromet MT201 blinatumomab Micromet MT103 and the like. Without being limited by theory one of the mechanisms by which T cells elicit apoptosis of the target cancer cell is by exocytosis of cytolytic granule components which include perforin and granzyme B. In this regard Bcl 2 has been shown to attenuate the induction of apoptosis by both perforin and granzyme B. These data suggest that inhibition of Bcl 2 could enhance the cytotoxic effects elicited by T cells when targeted to cancer cells V. R. Sutton D. L. Vaux and J. A. Trapani J. of Immunology 1997 158 12 5783 .

SiRNAs are molecules having endogenous RNA bases or chemically modified nucleotides. The modifications do not abolish cellular activity but rather impart increased stability and or increased cellular potency. Examples of chemical modifications include phosphorothioate groups 2 deoxynucleotide 2 OCH containing ribonucleotides 2 F ribonucleotides 2 methoxyethyl ribonucleotides combinations thereof and the like. The siRNA can have varying lengths e.g. 10 200 bps and structures e.g. hairpins single double strands bulges nicks gaps mismatches and are processed in cells to provide active gene silencing. A double stranded siRNA dsRNA can have the same number of nucleotides on each strand blunt ends or asymmetric ends overhangs . The overhang of 1 2 nucleotides can be present on the sense and or the antisense strand as well as present on the 5 and or the 3 ends of a given strand.

Multivalent binding proteins are binding proteins comprising two or more antigen binding sites. Multivalent binding proteins are engineered to have the three or more antigen binding sites and are generally not naturally occurring antibodies. The term multispecific binding protein means a binding protein capable of binding two or more related or unrelated targets. Dual variable domain DVD binding proteins are tetravalent or multivalent binding proteins binding proteins comprising two or more antigen binding sites. Such DVDs may be monospecific i.e. capable of binding one antigen or multispecific i.e. capable of binding two or more antigens . DVD binding proteins comprising two heavy chain DVD polypeptides and two light chain DVD polypeptides are referred to as DVD Ig s. Each half of a DVD Ig comprises a heavy chain DVD polypeptide a light chain DVD polypeptide and two antigen binding sites. Each binding site comprises a heavy chain variable domain and a light chain variable domain with a total of 6 CDRs involved in antigen binding per antigen binding site. Multispecific DVDs include DVD binding proteins that bind DLL4 and VEGF or C met and EFGR or ErbB3 and EGFR.

Alkylating agents include altretamine AMD 473 AP 5280 apaziquone bendamustine brostallicin busulfan carboquone carmustine BCNU chlorambucil CLORETAZINE laromustine VNP 40101M cyclophosphamide decarbazine estramustine fotemustine glufosfamide ifosfamide KW 2170 lomustine CCNU mafosfamide melphalan mitobronitol mitolactol nimustine nitrogen mustard N oxide ranimustine temozolomide thiotepa TREANDA bendamustine treosulfan rofosfamide and the like.

Angiogenesis inhibitors include endothelial specific receptor tyrosine kinase Tie 2 inhibitors epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR inhibitors insulin growth factor 2 receptor IGFR 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 2 MMP 2 inhibitors matrix metalloproteinase 9 MMP 9 inhibitors platelet derived growth factor receptor PDGFR inhibitors thrombospondin analogs vascular endothelial growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase VEGFR inhibitors and the like.

Antimetabolites include ALIMTA pemetrexed disodium LY231514 MTA 5 azacitidine XELODA capecitabine carmofur LEUSTAT cladribine clofarabine cytarabine cytarabine ocfosfate cytosine arabinoside decitabine deferoxamine doxifluridine eflornithine EICAR 5 ethynyl 1 D ribofuranosylimidazole 4 carboxamide enocitabine ethnylcytidine fludarabine 5 fluorouracil alone or in combination with leucovorin GEMZAR gemcitabine hydroxyurea ALKERAN melphalan mercaptopurine 6 mercaptopurine riboside methotrexate mycophenolic acid nelarabine nolatrexed ocfosfate pelitrexol pentostatin raltitrexed Ribavirin triapine trimetrexate S 1 tiazofurin tegafur TS 1 vidarabine UFT and the like.

Aurora kinase inhibitors include ABT 348 AZD 1152 MLN 8054 VX 680 Aurora A specific kinase inhibitors Aurora B specific kinase inhibitors and pan Aurora kinase inhibitors and the like.

Bcl 2 protein inhibitors include AT 101 gossypol GENASENSE G3139 or oblimersen Bcl 2 targeting antisense oligonucleotide IPI 194 IPI 565 N 4 4 4 chloro 1 1 biphenyl 2 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 41R 3 dimethylamino 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 nitrobenzenesulfonamide ABT 737 N 4 4 2 4 chlorophenyl 5 5 dimethyl 1 cyclohex 1 en 1 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl benzoyl 4 1R 3 morpholin 4 yl 1 phenylsulfanyl methyl propyl amino 3 trifluoromethyl sulfonyl benzenesulfonamide ABT 263 GX 070 obatoclax ABT 199 and the like.

CDK inhibitors include AZD 5438 BMI 1040 BMS 032 BMS 387 CVT 2584 flavopyridol GPC 286199 MCS 5A PD0332991 PHA 690509 seliciclib CYC 202 R roscovitine ZK 304709 and the like.

COX 2 inhibitors include ABT 963 ARCOXIA etoricoxib BEXTRA valdecoxib BMS347070 CELEBREX celecoxib COX 189 lumiracoxib CT 3 DERAMAXX deracoxib JTE 522 4 methyl 2 3 4 dimethylphenyl 1 4 sulfamoylphenyl 1H pyrrole MK 663 etoricoxib NS 398 parecoxib RS 57067 SC 58125 SD 8381 SVT 2016 S 2474 T 614 VIOXX rofecoxib and the like.

EGFR inhibitors include EGFR antibodies ABX EGF anti EGFR immunoliposomes EGF vaccine EMD 7200 ERBITUX cetuximab HR3 IgA antibodies IRESSA gefitinib TARCEVA erlotinib or OSI 774 TP 38 EGFR fusion protein TYKERB lapatinib and the like.

ErbB2 receptor inhibitors include CP 724 714 CI 1033 canertinib HERCEPTIN trastuzumab TYKERB lapatinib OMNITARG 2C4 petuzumab TAK 165 GW 572016 ionafarnib GW 282974 EKB 569 PI 166 dHER2 HER2 vaccine APC 8024 HER 2 vaccine anti HER 2neu bispecific antibody B7.her2IgG3 AS HER2 trifunctional bispecfic antibodies mAB AR 209 mAB 2B 1 and the like.

Histone deacetylase inhibitors include depsipeptide LAQ 824 MS 275 trapoxin suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA TSA valproic acid and the like.

HSP 90 inhibitors include 17 AAG nab 17 AAG CNF 101 CNF 1010 CNF 2024 17 DMAG geldanamycin IPI 504 KOS 953 MYCOGRAB human recombinant antibody to HSP 90 NCS 683664 PU24FC1 PU 3 radicicol SNX 2112 STA 9090 VER49009 and the like.

Inhibitors of inhibitors of apoptosis proteins include HGS1029 GDC 0145 GDC 0152 LCL 161 LBW 242 and the like.

Antibody drug conjugates include anti CD22 MC MMAF anti CD22 MC MMAE anti CD22 MCC DM1 CR 0 1 vcMMAE PSMA ADC MEDI 547 SGN 19 Am SGN 35 SGN 75 and the like

Activators of death receptor pathway include TRAIL antibodies or other agents that target TRAIL or death receptors e.g. DR4 and DR5 such as Apomab conatumumab ETR2 ST01 GDC0145 lexatumumab HGS 1029 LBY 135 PRO 1762 and trastuzumab.

Kinesin inhibitors include Eg5 inhibitors such as AZD4877 ARRY 520 CENPE inhibitors such as GSK923295A and the like.

mTOR inhibitors include AP 23573 CCI 779 everolimus RAD 001 rapamycin temsirolimus ATP competitive TORC1 TORC2 inhibitors including PI 103 PP242 PP30 Torin 1 and the like.

Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs include AMIGESIC salsalate DOLOBID diflunisal MOTRIN ibuprofen ORUDIS ketoprofen RELAFEN nabumetone FELDENE piroxicam ibuprofen cream ALEVE naproxen and NAPROSYN naproxen VOLTAREN diclofenac INDOCIN indomethacin CLINORIL sulindac TOLECTIN tolmetin LODINE etodolac TORADOL ketorolac DAYPRO oxaprozin and the like.

Platinum chemotherapeutics include cisplatin ELOXATIN oxaliplatin eptaplatin lobaplatin nedaplatin PARAPLATIN carboplatin satraplatin picoplatin and the like.

Phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K inhibitors include wortmannin LY294002 XL 147 CAL 120 ONC 21 AEZS 127 ETP 45658 PX 866 GDC 0941 BGT226 BEZ235 XL765 and the like.

VEGFR inhibitors include AVASTIN bevacizumab ABT 869 AEE 788 ANGIOZYME a ribozyme that inhibits angiogenesis Ribozyme Pharmaceuticals Boulder Colo. and Chiron Emeryville Calif. axitinib AG 13736 AZD 2171 CP 547 632 IM 862 MACUGEN pegaptamib NEXAVAR sorafenib BAY43 9006 pazopanib GW 786034 vatalanib PTK 787 ZK 222584 SUTENT sunitinib SU 11248 VEGF trap ZACTIMA vandetanib ZD 6474 GA101 ofatumumab ABT 806 mAb 806 ErbB3 specific antibodies BSG2 specific antibodies DLL4 specific antibodies and C met specific antibodies and the like.

Antibiotics include intercalating antibiotics aclarubicin actinomycin D amrubicin annamycin adriamycin BLENOXANE bleomycin daunorubicin CAELYX or MYOCET liposomal doxorubicin elsamitrucin epirbucin glarbuicin ZAVEDOS idarubicin mitomycin C nemorubicin neocarzinostatin peplomycin pirarubicin rebeccamycin stimalamer streptozocin VALSTAR valrubicin zinostatin and the like.

Topoisomerase inhibitors include aclarubicin 9 aminocamptothecin amonafide amsacrine becatecarin belotecan BN 80915 CAMPTOSAR irinotecan hydrochloride camptothecin CARDIOXANE dexrazoxine diflomotecan edotecarin ELLENCE or PHARMORUBICIN epirubicin etoposide exatecan 10 hydroxycamptothecin gimatecan lurtotecan mitoxantrone orathecin pirarbucin pixantrone rubitecan sobuzoxane SN 38 tafluposide topotecan and the like.

Antibodies include AVASTIN bevacizumab CD40 specific antibodies chTNT 1 B denosumab ERBITUX cetuximab HUMAX CD4 zanolimumab IGF1R specific antibodies lintuzumab PANOREX edrecolomab RENCAREX WX G250 RITUXAN rituximab ticilimumab trastuzimab CD20 antibodies types I and II and the like.

Hormonal therapies include ARIMIDEX anastrozole AROMASIN exemestane arzoxifene CASODEX bicalutamide CETROTIDE cetrorelix degarelix deslorelin DESOPAN trilostane dexamethasone DROGENIL flutamide EVISTA raloxifene AFEMA fadrozole FARESTON toremifene FASLODEX fulvestrant FEMARA letrozole formestane glucocorticoids HECTOROL doxercalciferol RENAGEL sevelamer carbonate lasofoxifene leuprolide acetate MEGACE megesterol MIFEPREX mifepristone NILANDRON nilutamide NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate PLENAXIS abarelix prednisone PROPECIA finasteride rilostane SUPREFACT buserelin TRELSTAR luteinizing hormone releasing hormone LHRH VANTAS Histrelin implant VETORYL trilostane or modrastane ZOLADEX fosrelin goserelin and the like.

Deltoids and retinoids include seocalcitol EB1089 CB1093 lexacalcitrol KH1060 fenretinide PANRETIN aliretinoin ATRAGEN liposomal tretinoin TARGRETIN bexarotene LGD 1550 and the like.

PARP inhibitors include ABT 888 veliparib olaparib KU 59436 AZD 2281 AG 014699 BSI 201 BGP 15 INO 1001 ONO 2231 and the like.

Plant alkaloids include but are not limited to vincristine vinblastine vindesine vinorelbine and the like.

Examples of immunologicals include interferons and other immune enhancing agents. Interferons include interferon alpha interferon alpha 2a interferon alpha 2b interferon beta interferon gamma 1a ACTIMMUNE interferon gamma 1b or interferon gamma n1 combinations thereof and the like. Other agents include ALFAFERONE IFN BAM 002 oxidized glutathione BEROMUN tasonermin BEXXAR tositumomab CAMPATH alemtuzumab CTLA4 cytotoxic lymphocyte antigen 4 decarbazine denileukin epratuzumab GRANOCYTE lenograstim lentinan leukocyte alpha interferon imiquimod MDX 010 anti CTLA 4 melanoma vaccine mitumomab molgramostim MYLOTARG gemtuzumab ozogamicin NEUPOGEN filgrastim OncoVAC CL OVAREX oregovomab pemtumomab Y muHMFG1 PROVENGE sipuleucel T sargaramostim sizofilan teceleukin THERACYS Bacillus Calmette Guerin ubenimex VIRULIZIN immunotherapeutic Lorus Pharmaceuticals Z 100 Specific Substance of Maruyama SSM WF 10 Tetrachlorodecaoxide TCDO PROLEUKIN aldesleukin ZADAXIN thymalfasin ZENAPAX daclizumab ZEVALIN Y Ibritumomab tiuxetan and the like.

Biological response modifiers are agents that modify defense mechanisms of living organisms or biological responses such as survival growth or differentiation of tissue cells to direct them to have anti tumor activity and include krestin lentinan sizofiran picibanil PF 3512676 CpG 8954 ubenimex and the like.

Pyrimidine analogs include cytarabine ara C or Arabinoside C cytosine arabinoside doxifluridine FLUDARA fludarabine 5 FU 5 fluorouracil floxuridine GEMZAR gemcitabine TOMUDEX ratitrexed TROXATYL triacetyluridine troxacitabine and the like.

Antimitotic agents include batabulin epothilone D KOS 862 N 2 4 hydroxyphenyl amino pyridin 3 yl 4 methoxybenzenesulfonamide ixabepilone BMS 247550 paclitaxel TAXOTERE docetaxel PNU100940 109881 patupilone XRP 9881 larotaxel vinflunine ZK EPO synthetic epothilone and the like.

Ubiquitin ligase inhibitors include MDM2 inhibitors such as nutlins NEDD8 inhibitors such as MLN4924 and the like.

Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide can also be used as radiosensitizers that enhance the efficacy of radiotherapy. Examples of radiotherapy include external beam radiotherapy teletherapy brachytherapy and sealed unsealed source radiotherapy and the like.

Additionally a crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may be combined with other chemotherapeutic agents such as ABRAXANE ABI 007 ABT 100 farnesyl transferase inhibitor ADVEXIN Ad5CMV p53 vaccine ALTOCOR or MEVACOR lovastatin AMPLIGEN poly I poly ClU a synthetic RNA APTOSYN exisulind AREDIA pamidronic acid arglabin L asparaginase atamestane 1 methyl 3 17 dione androsta 1 4 diene AVAGE tazarotene AVE 8062 combreastatin derivative BEC2 mitumomab cachectin or cachexin tumor necrosis factor canvaxin vaccine CEAVAC cancer vaccine CELEUK celmoleukin CEPLENE histamine dihydrochloride CERVARIX human papillomavirus vaccine CHOP C CYTOXAN cyclophosphamide H ADRIAMYCIN hydroxydoxorubicin 0 Vincristine ONCOVIN P prednisone CYPAT cyproterone acetate combrestatin A4P DAB 389 EGF catalytic and translocation domains of diphtheria toxin fused via a His Ala linker to human epidermal growth factor or TransMID 107R diphtheria toxins dacarbazine dactinomycin 5 6 dimethylxanthenone 4 acetic acid DMXAA eniluracil EVIZON squalamine lactate DIMERICINE T4N5 liposome lotion discodermolide DX 8951f exatecan mesylate enzastaurin EP0906 epithilone B GARDASIL quadrivalent human papillomavirus Types 6 11 16 18 recombinant vaccine GASTRIMMUNE GENASENSE GMK ganglioside conjugate vaccine GVAX prostate cancer vaccine halofuginone histerelin hydroxycarbamide ibandronic acid IGN 101 IL 13 PE38 IL 13 PE38QQR cintredekin besudotox IL 13 pseudomonas exotoxin interferon interferon JUNOVAN or MEPACT mifamurtide lonafarnib 5 10 methylenetetrahydrofolate miltefosine hexadecylphosphocholine NEOVASTAT AE 941 NEUTREXIN trimetrexate glucuronate NIPENT pentostatin ONCONASE a ribonuclease enzyme ONCOPHAGE melanoma vaccine treatment ONCOVAX IL 2 Vaccine ORATHECINT rubitecan OSIDEM antibody based cell drug OVAREX MAb murine monoclonal antibody paclitaxel PANDIMEX aglycone saponins from ginseng comprising 20 S protopanaxadiol aPPD and 20 S protopanaxatriol aPPT panitumumab PANVAC VF investigational cancer vaccine pegaspargase PEG Interferon A phenoxodiol procarbazine rebimastat REMOVAB catumaxomab REVLIMID lenalidomide RSR13 efaproxiral SOMATULINE LA lanreotide SORIATANE acitretin staurosporine Streptomyces staurospores talabostat PT100 TARGRETIN bexarotene TAXOPREXIN DHA paclitaxel TELCYTA canfosfamide TLK286 temilifene TEMODAR temozolomide tesmilifene thalidomide THERATOPE STn KLH thymitaq 2 amino 3 4 dihydro 6 methyl 4 oxo 5 4 pyridylthio quinazoline dihydrochloride TNFERADE adenovector DNA carrier containing the gene for tumor necrosis factor TRACLEER or ZAVESCA bosentan tretinoin Retin A tetrandrine TRISENOX arsenic trioxide VIRULIZIN ukrain derivative of alkaloids from the greater celandine plant vitaxin anti alphavbeta3 antibody XCYTRIN motexafin gadolinium XINLAY atrasentan XYOTAX paclitaxel poliglumex YONDELIS trabectedin ZD 6126 ZINECARD dexrazoxane ZOMETA zolendronic acid zorubicin and the like.

Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide can also be co administered with a therapeutically effective amount of one or more therapeutic agents to treat an inflammatory disease or condition or autoimmune disease where examples of the agents include such as methotrexate tofacitinib 6 mercaptopurine azathioprine sulphasalazine mesalazine olsalazine chloroquinine hydroxychloroquine pencillamine aurothiomalate intramuscular and oral azathioprine cochicine corticosteroids oral inhaled and local injection beta 2 adrenoreceptor agonists salbutamol terbutaline salmeteral xanthines theophylline aminophylline cromoglycate nedocromil ketotifen ipratropium and oxitropium cyclosporin FK506 rapamycin mycophenolate mofetil leflunomide NSAIDs for example ibuprofen corticosteroids such as prednisolone phosphodiesterase inhibitors adensosine agonists antithrombotic agents complement inhibitors adrenergic agents agents which interfere with signalling by proinflammatory cytokines such as TNF or IL 1 e.g. NIK IKK p38 or MAP kinase inhibitors IL 1 converting enzyme inhibitors T cell signalling inhibitors such as kinase inhibitors metalloproteinase inhibitors sulfasalazine 6 mercaptopurines angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors soluble cytokine receptors and derivatives thereof e.g. soluble p55 or p75 TNF receptors and the derivatives p75TNFRIgG etanercept and p55TNFRIgG Lenercept sIL 1R1 sIL 1R11 sIL 6R antiinflammatory cytokines e.g. IL 4 IL 10 IL 11 IL 13 and TGF celecoxib folic acid hydroxychloroquine sulfate rofecoxib etanercept infliximab adalimumab certolizumab tocilizumab abatacept naproxen valdecoxib sulfasalazine methylprednisolone meloxicam methylprednisolone acetate gold sodium thiomalate aspirin triamcinolone acetonide propoxyphene napsylate apap folate nabumetone diclofenac piroxicam etodolac diclofenac sodium oxaprozin oxycodone HCl hydrocodone bitartrate apap diclofenac sodium misoprostol fentanyl anakinra tramadol HCl salsalate sulindac cyanocobalamin fa pyridoxine acetaminophen alendronate sodium prednisolone cortisone betamethasone morphine sulfate lidocaine hydrochloride indomethacin glucosamine sulf chondroitin amitriptyline HCl sulfadiazine oxycodone HCl acetaminophen olopatadine HCl misoprostol naproxen sodium omeprazole cyclophosphamide rituximab IL 1 TRAP MRA CTLA4 IG IL 18 BP anti IL 12 Anti ILLS BIRB 796 SCIO 469 VX 702 AMG 548 VX 740 Roflumilast IC 485 CDC 801 S1P1 agonists such as FTY720 PKC family inhibitors such as Ruboxistaurin or AEB 071 and Mesopram. In certain embodiments combinations include methotrexate or leflunomide and in moderate or severe rheumatoid arthritis cases cyclosporine and anti TNF antibodies as noted above.

Non limiting examples of therapeutic agents for inflammatory bowel disease with which crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may be co administered include the following budenoside epidermal growth factor corticosteroids cyclosporin sulfasalazine aminosalicylates 6 mercaptopurine azathioprine metronidazole lipoxygenase inhibitors mesalamine olsalazine balsalazide antioxidants thromboxane inhibitors IL 1 receptor antagonists anti IL 1 monoclonal antibodies anti IL 6 monoclonal antibodies growth factors elastase inhibitors pyridinyl imidazole compounds antibodies to or antagonists of other human cytokines or growth factors for example TNF LT IL 1 IL 2 IL 6 IL 7 IL 8 IL 12 IL 15 IL 16 IL 23 EMAP II GM CSF FGF and PDGF cell surface molecules such as CD2 CD3 CD4 CD8 CD25 CD28 CD30 CD40 CD45 CD69 CD90 or their ligands methotrexate cyclosporine FK506 rapamycin mycophenolate mofetil leflunomide NSAIDs for example ibuprofen corticosteroids such as prednisolone phosphodiesterase inhibitors adenosine agonists antithrombotic agents complement inhibitors adrenergic agents agents which interfere with signalling by proinflammatory cytokines such as TNF or IL 1 e.g. NIK IKK or MAP kinase inhibitors IL 1 converting enzyme inhibitors TNF converting enzyme inhibitors T cell signalling inhibitors such as kinase inhibitors metalloproteinase inhibitors sulfasalazine azathioprine 6 mercaptopurines angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors soluble cytokine receptors and derivatives thereof e.g. soluble p55 or p75 TNF receptors sIL 1R1 sIL 1R11 sIL 6R and antiinflammatory cytokines e.g. IL 4 IL 10 IL 11 IL 13 and TGF . Preferred examples of therapeutic agents for Crohn s disease with which a crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide can be combined include the following TNF antagonists for example anti TNF antibodies D2E7 adalimumab CA2 infliximab CDP 571 TNFR Ig constructs p75TNFRIgG etanercept and p55TNFRIgG LENERCEPT inhibitors and PDE4 inhibitors. Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide can be combined with corticosteroids for example budenoside and dexamethasone sulfasalazine 5 aminosalicylic acid olsalazine and agents which interfere with synthesis or action of proinflammatory cytokines such as IL 1 for example IL 1 converting enzyme inhibitors and IL 1ra T cell signaling inhibitors for example tyrosine kinase inhibitors 6 mercaptopurine IL 11 mesalamine prednisone azathioprine mercaptopurine infliximab methylprednisolone sodium succinate diphenoxylate atrop sulfate loperamide hydrochloride methotrexate omeprazole folate ciprofloxacin dextrose water hydrocodone bitartrate apap tetracycline hydrochloride fluocinonide metronidazole thimerosal boric acid cholestyramine sucrose ciprofloxacin hydrochloride hyoscyamine sulfate meperidine hydrochloride midazolam hydrochloride oxycodone HCl acetaminophen promethazine hydrochloride sodium phosphate sulfamethoxazole trimethoprim celecoxib polycarbophil propoxyphene napsylate hydrocortisone multivitamins balsalazide disodium codeine phosphate apap colesevelam HCl cyanocobalamin folic acid levofloxacin methylprednisolone natalizumab and interferon gamma.

Non limiting examples of therapeutic agents for multiple sclerosis with which a crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may be co administered include the following corticosteroids prednisolone methylprednisolone azathioprine cyclophosphamide cyclosporine methotrexate 4 aminopyridine tizanidine interferon 1a AVONEX Biogen interferon 31b BETASERON Chiron Berlex interferon n3 Interferon Sciences Fujimoto interferon Alfa Wassermann J J interferon 1A 1F Serono Inhale Therapeutics Peginterferon 2b Enzon Schering Plough Copolymer 1 Cop 1 COPAXONE Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Inc. hyperbaric oxygen intravenous immunoglobulin cladribine antibodies to or antagonists of other human cytokines or growth factors and their receptors for example TNF LT IL 1 IL 2 IL 6 IL 7 IL 8 IL 12 IL 23 IL 15 IL 16 EMAP II GM CSF FGF and PDGF. crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide can be combined with antibodies to cell surface molecules such as CD2 CD3 CD4 CD8 CD19 CD20 CD25 CD28 CD30 CD40 CD45 CD69 CD80 CD86 CD90 or their ligands. Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may also be combined with agents such as methotrexate cyclosporine FK506 rapamycin mycophenolate mofetil leflunomide an S1P1 agonist NSAIDs for example ibuprofen corticosteroids such as prednisolone phosphodiesterase inhibitors adensosine agonists antithrombotic agents complement inhibitors adrenergic agents agents which interfere with signalling by proinflammatory cytokines such as TNF or IL 1 e.g. NIK IKK p38 or MAP kinase inhibitors IL 1 converting enzyme inhibitors TACE inhibitors T cell signaling inhibitors such as kinase inhibitors metalloproteinase inhibitors sulfasalazine azathioprine 6 mercaptopurines angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors soluble cytokine receptors and derivatives thereof e.g. soluble p55 or p75 TNF receptors sIL 1R1 sIL 1R11 sIL 6R and antiinflammatory cytokines e.g. IL 4 IL 10 IL 13 and TGF .

Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may also be co administered with agents such as alemtuzumab dronabinol daclizumab mitoxantrone xaliproden hydrochloride fampridine glatiramer acetate natalizumab sinnabidol immunokine NNSO ABR 215062 AnergiX.MS chemokine receptor antagonists BBR 2778 calagualine CPI 1189 LEM liposome encapsulated mitoxantrone THC.CBD cannabinoid agonist MBP 8298 mesopram PDE4 inhibitor MNA 715 anti IL 6 receptor antibody neurovax pirfenidone allotrap 1258 RDP 1258 sTNF R1 talampanel teriflunomide TGF beta2 tiplimotide VLA 4 antagonists for example TR 14035 VLA4 Ultrahaler Antegran ELAN Biogen interferon gamma antagonists and IL 4 agonists.

Non limiting examples of therapeutic agents for ankylosing spondylitis with which a crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide can be co administered include the following ibuprofen diclofenac misoprostol naproxen meloxicam indomethacin diclofenac celecoxib rofecoxib sulfasalazine methotrexate azathioprine minocyclin prednisone and anti TNF antibodies D2E7 HUMIRA CA2 infliximab CDP 571 TNFR Ig constructs p75TNFRIgG ENBREL and p55TNFRIgG LENERCEPT .

Non limiting examples of therapeutic agents for asthma with which a crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may be co administered include the following albuterol salmeterol fluticasone montelukast sodium fluticasone propionate budesonide prednisone salmeterol xinafoate levalbuterol HCl albuterol sulfate ipratropium prednisolone sodium phosphate triamcinolone acetonide beclomethasone dipropionate ipratropium bromide azithromycin pirbuterol acetate prednisolone theophylline anhydrous methylprednisolone sodium succinate clarithromycin zafirlukast formoterol fumarate influenza virus vaccine amoxicillin trihydrate flunisolide allergy injection cromolyn sodium fexofenadine hydrochloride flunisolide menthol amoxicillin clavulanate levofloxacin inhaler assist device guaifenesin dexamethasone sodium phosphate moxifloxacin HCl doxycycline hyclate guaifenesin d methorphan p ephedrine cod chlorphenir gatifloxacin cetirizine hydrochloride mometasone furoate salmeterol xinafoate benzonatate cephalexin pe hydrocodone chlorphenir cetirizine HCl pseudoephed phenylephrine cod promethazine codeine promethazine cefprozil dexamethasone guaifenesin pseudoephedrine chlorpheniramine hydrocodone nedocromil sodium terbutaline sulfate epinephrine methylprednisolone anti IL 13 antibody and metaproterenol sulfate.

Non limiting examples of therapeutic agents for COPD with which a crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may be co administered include the following albuterol sulfate ipratropium ipratropium bromide salmeterol fluticasone albuterol salmeterol xinafoate fluticasone propionate prednisone theophylline anhydrous methylprednisolone sodium succinate montelukast sodium budesonide formoterol fumarate triamcinolone acetonide levofloxacin guaifenesin azithromycin beclomethasone dipropionate levalbuterol HCl flunisolide ceftriaxone sodium amoxicillin trihydrate gatifloxacin zafirlukast amoxicillin clavulanate flunisolide menthol chlorpheniramine hydrocodone metaproterenol sulfate methylprednisolone mometasone furoate p ephedrine cod chlorphenir pirbuterol acetate p ephedrine loratadine terbutaline sulfate tiotropium bromide R R formoterol TgAAT cilomilast and roflumilast.

Non limiting examples of therapeutic agents for psoriasis with which a crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may be co administered include the following calcipotriene clobetasol propionate triamcinolone acetonide halobetasol propionate tazarotene methotrexate fluocinonide betamethasone diprop augmented fluocinolone acetonide acitretin tar shampoo betamethasone valerate mometasone furoate ketoconazole pramoxine fluocinolone hydrocortisone valerate flurandrenolide urea betamethasone clobetasol propionate emoll fluticasone propionate azithromycin hydrocortisone moisturizing formula folic acid desonide pimecrolimus coal tar diflorasone diacetate etanercept folate lactic acid methoxsalen hc bismuth subgal znox resor methylprednisolone acetate prednisone sunscreen halcinonide salicylic acid anthralin clocortolone pivalate coal extract coal tar salicylic acid coal tar salicylic acid sulfur desoximetasone diazepam emollient fluocinonide emollient mineral oil castor oil na lact mineral oil peanut oil petroleum isopropyl myristate psoralen salicylic acid soap tribromsalan thimerosal boric acid celecoxib infliximab cyclosporine alefacept efalizumab tacrolimus pimecrolimus PUVA UVB sulfasalazine ABT 874 and ustekinamab.

Non limiting examples of therapeutic agents for psoriatic arthritis with which a crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may be co administered include the following methotrexate etanercept rofecoxib celecoxib folic acid sulfasalazine naproxen leflunomide methylprednisolone acetate indomethacin hydroxychloroquine sulfate prednisone sulindac betamethasone diprop augmented infliximab methotrexate folate triamcinolone acetonide diclofenac dimethylsulfoxide piroxicam diclofenac sodium ketoprofen meloxicam methylprednisolone nabumetone tolmetin sodium calcipotriene cyclosporine diclofenac sodium misoprostol fluocinonide glucosamine sulfate gold sodium thiomalate hydrocodone bitartrate apap ibuprofen risedronate sodium sulfadiazine thioguanine valdecoxib alefacept D2E7 adalimumab and efalizumab.

Examples of therapeutic agents for SLE Lupus with which a crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may be co administered include the following NSAIDS for example diclofenac naproxen ibuprofen piroxicam indomethacin COX2 inhibitors for example celecoxib rofecoxib valdecoxib anti malarials for example hydroxychloroquine steroids for example prednisone prednisolone budenoside dexamethasone cytotoxics for example azathioprine cyclophosphamide mycophenolate mofetil methotrexate inhibitors of PDE4 or purine synthesis inhibitor for example Cellcept . Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may also be combined with agents such as sulfasalazine 5 aminosalicylic acid olsalazine Imuran and agents which interfere with synthesis production or action of proinflammatory cytokines such as IL 1 for example caspase inhibitors like IL 1 converting enzyme inhibitors and IL 1ra. Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may also be used with T cell signaling inhibitors for example tyrosine kinase inhibitors or molecules that target T cell activation molecules for example CTLA 4 IgG or anti B7 family antibodies anti PD 1 family antibodies. Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide can be combined with IL 11 or anti cytokine antibodies for example fonotolizumab anti IFNg antibody or anti receptor receptor antibodies for example anti IL 6 receptor antibody and antibodies to B cell surface molecules. Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide may also be used with LJP 394 abetimus agents that deplete or inactivate B cells for example Rituximab anti CD20 antibody lymphostat B anti B1yS antibody TNF antagonists for example anti TNF antibodies D2E7 adalimumab CA2 infliximab CDP 571 TNFR Ig constructs p75TNFRIgG etanercept and p55TNFRIgG LENERCEPT .

Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide can also be co administered with a therapeutically effective amount of one or more agents used in the prevention or treatment of AIDS where examples of the agents include HIV reverse transcriptase inhibitors HIV protease inhibitors immunomodulators and other retroviral drugs. Examples of reverse transcriptase inhibitors include but are not limited to abacavir adefovir didanosine dipivoxil delavirdine efavirenz emtricitabine lamivudine nevirapine rilpivirine stavudine tenofovir zalcitabine and zidovudine. Examples of protease inhibitors include but are not limited to amprenavir atazanavir darunavir indinavir fosamprenavir lopinavir nelfinavir ritonavir saquinavir and tipranavir. Examples of other retroviral drugs include but are not limited to elvitegravir enfuvirtide maraviroc and raltegravir.

Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide can be co administered with a therapeutically effective amount of one or more therapeutic agents to prevent or treat type II diabetes hepatic steatosis insulin resistance metabolic syndrome and related disorders where examples of the agents include but are not limited to insulin and insulins that have been modified to improve the duration of action in the body agents that stimulate insulin secretion such as acetohexamide chlorpropamide glyburide glimepiride glipizide glicazide glycopyramide gliquidone rapaglinide nataglinide tolazamide and tolbutamide agents that are glucagon like peptide agonists such as exanatide liraglutide and taspoglutide agents that inhibit dipeptidyl peptidase IV such as vildagliptin sitagliptin saxagliptin linagliptin allogliptin and septagliptin agents that bind to the peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma such as rosiglitazone and pioglitazone agents that decrease insulin resistance such as metformin agents that reduce glucose absorbance in the small intestine such as acarbose miglitol and voglibose.

Crystalline form II of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide can be co administered with a therapeutically effective amount of one or more therapeutic agents to prevent or treat acute kidney disorders and chronic kidney diseases where examples of the agents include but are not limited to dopamine diuretics such as furosemide bumetanide thiazide and the like mannitol calcium gluconate sodium bicarbonate albuterol paricalcitol doxercalciferol cinacalcet and bardoxalone methyl.

The terms treat treating and treatment refer to a method of alleviating or abrogating a disease and or its attendant symptoms.

The terms prevent preventing and prevention refer to a method of preventing the onset of a disease and or its attendant symptoms or barring a subject from acquiring a disease. As used herein prevent preventing and prevention also include delaying the onset of a disease and or its attendant symptoms and reducing a subject s risk of acquiring a disease.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof sufficient to prevent the development of or to alleviate to some extent one or more of the symptoms of the condition or disorder being treated when administered alone or in conjunction with another pharmaceutical agent or treatment in a particular subject or subject population. For example in a human or other mammal a therapeutically effective amount can be determined experimentally in a laboratory or clinical setting or may be the amount required by the guidelines of the United States Food and Drug Administration or equivalent foreign agency for the particular disease and subject being treated.

The term subject is defined herein to refer to animals such as mammals including but not limited to primates e.g. humans cows sheep goats horses dogs cats rabbits rats mice and the like. In preferred embodiments the subject is a human.

The following Examples may be used for illustrative purposes and should not be deemed to narrow the scope of the invention.

PXRD data were collected using a G3000 diffractometer Inel Corp. Artenay France equipped with a curved position sensitive detector and parallel beam optics. The diffractometer was operated with a copper anode tube 1.5 kW fine focus at 40 kV and 30 mA. An incident beam germanium monochrometer provided monochromatic radiation. The diffractometer was calibrated using the attenuated direct beam at one degree intervals. Calibration was checked using a silicon powder line position reference standard NIST 640c . The instrument was computer controlled using the Symphonix software Inel Corp. Artenay France and the data was analyzed using the Jade software version 9 Materials Data Inc. Livermore Calif. . The sample was loaded onto an aluminum sample holder and leveled with a glass slide. The sample was irradiated with copper K X rays with the X ray tube operated at 40 kV and 30 mA.

The PXRD patterns are shown in . The Tables below include the analysis and are provided with the following approximate data 2 positions and relative intensity using peak height to measure height H in counts per second.

A DSC Q 2000 TA Instruments New Castle Del. equipped with Universal Analysis 2000 software Version 4.5A TA Instruments New Castle Del. was used to determine the DSC thermal traces. The temperature axis was calibrated with biphenyl indium and tin standards. The cell constant was calibrated with indium. Unless otherwise stated the sample 2 5 mg was encapsulated in a ventilated aluminum pan and heated at a rate of 10 C. min under a nitrogen gas flow of 50 mL min during the study.

TGA traces were collected on a thermal balance Q 500 TA Instruments New Castle Del. equipped with a data analyzer Universal Analysis 2000 version 4.5A TA Instruments New Castle Del. . During experiments the furnace was purged with nitrogen at 60 mL min while the balance chamber was purged at 40 mL min. Temperature of the TGA furnace was calibrated using curie points of aluminum and nickel. Sample size ranged from 2 to 20 mg and a heating rate of 10 C. min was used.

A mixture of 2 bromo 1 fluoro 4 nitrobenzene 15 g 68 mmol 2 4 difluorophenol 7.82 mL 82 mmol and cesium carbonate 26.7 g 82 mmol in dimethylsulfoxide 75 mL was heated at 110 C. for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature and water 1000 mL and saturated aqueous sodium chloride 1000 mL were added. The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 200 mL . The combined organics were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride dried anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide 2 bromo 1 2 4 difluorophenoxy 4 nitrobenzene 22.5 g quantitative .

A mixture of 2 bromo 1 2 4 difluorophenoxy 4 nitrobenzene 22.5 g 68.2 mmol iron powder 19.04 g 341 mmol and ammonium chloride 7.30 g 136 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 117 mL ethanol 117 mL and water 39.0 mL was heated under reflux at 100 C. for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to just below reflux temperature filtered through Celite and the filter cake washed with warm methanol 3 50 mL . The resulting solution was concentrated under reduced pressure and then neutralized to a pH of 8 with saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate 150 mL . The mixture was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 100 mL . The combined organics were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography silica gel ethyl acetate hexane gradient 0 15 to provide 3 bromo 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy aniline 16.8 g 82 yield .

5 Bromo 2 methoxy 4 methyl 3 nitropyridine 15.0 g 60.7 mmol was dissolved in dimethylformamide 300 mL and lithium methanolate 6.07 mL 6.07 mmol 1 M was added. The reaction mixture was heated to 100 C. To this mixture was added 1 1 dimethoxy N N dimethylmethanamine 64.5 mL 486 mmol over 10 minutes. The reaction mixture was stirred at 95 C. for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and water was added carefully 300 mL exothermic . The resulting precipitate was collected by vacuum filtration washed with water and dried to provide E 2 5 bromo 2 methoxy 3 nitropyridin 4 yl N N dimethylethenamine 13.9 g 45.9 mmol 76 yield .

 E 2 5 bromo 2 methoxy 3 nitropyridin 4 yl N N dimethylethenamine 13.9 g 45.8 mmol and ethyl acetate 150 mL were added to Ra Ni 2800 pre washed with ethanol water slurry 6.9 g 118 mmol in a stainless steel pressure bottle and stirred for 30 minutes at 30 psi of hydrogen and room temperature. The reaction mixture was filtered and concentrated. The residue was triturated with dichloromethane and the solid collected by filtration to provide 4 bromo 7 methoxy 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 5.82 g . The mother liquor was evaporated and the residue triturated again with dichloromethane and filtered to provide an additional 1.63 g of 4 bromo 7 methoxy 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine. Total yield 7.45 g 72 yield.

A solution of 4 bromo 7 methoxy 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 7.42 g 32.7 mmol in dimethylformamide 235 mL was stirred at room temperature. To this solution was added sodium hydride 1.18 g 1.96 g of 60 dispersion in oil 49.0 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred for 10 minutes. P toluenesulfonyl chloride 9.35 g 49.0 mmol was then added portion wise and the mixture was stirred at room temperature under nitrogen for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched carefully with water and the resulting beige solid collected by vacuum filtration on a Buchner funnel and washed with water. The solid was collected and dried in a vacuum oven at 50 C. to provide 12.4 g 100 of 4 bromo 7 methoxy 1 tosyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine.

A solution of 4 bromo 7 methoxy 1 tosyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridine 12.4 g 32.6 mmol in dioxane 140 mL was stirred at room temperature. To this solution was added 4M HCl in dioxane 140 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at 40 C. for 16 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated. The residue was triturated with diethyl ether filtered and rinsed with additional diethyl ether and dried to provide 4 bromo 1 tosyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 7 6H one 11.23 g 30.6 mmol 94 yield as a beige solid.

Sodium hydride 0.875 g 36.5 mmol 1.46 g of a 60 in oil dispersion was added to a stirring solution of 4 bromo 1 tosyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 7 6H one 11.2 g 30.4 mmol in dimethylformamide 217 mL under nitrogen. After 30 minutes iodomethane 2.27 mL 36.5 mmol was added and the solution was stirred at room temperature for 3 h. Upon addition of water 250 mL a precipitate formed. The precipitate was collected by vacuum filtration rinsed with water 50 mL and dried in a vacuum oven at 55 C. overnight to provide 11.2 g of 4 bromo 6 methyl 1 tosyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 7 6H one 96 .

4 Bromo 6 methyl 1 tosyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 7 6H one 6.55 g 17.2 mmol 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 octamethyl 2 2 bi 1 3 2 dioxaborolane 8.73 g 34.4 mmol potassium acetate 3.71 g 37.8 mmol tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 0.393 g 0.430 mmol and 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropylbiphenyl X PHOS 0.819 g 1.72 mmol were combined and sparged with argon for 1 hour with stirring. Dioxane 86 mL was sparged with nitrogen for 1 hour transferred via cannula under nitrogen to the solid components and the mixture was heated under argon at 80 C. for 5 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature partitioned between ethyl acetate and water and filtered through Celite. The ethyl acetate layer was washed twice with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by chromatography silica gel 25 80 ethyl acetate in hexane . The resulting material from chromatography was triturated with a minimal amount of hexanes 30 mL and the particulate solid was collected by filtration rinsed with a minimal amount of hexanes and dried to constant mass to afford 6 methyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1 tosyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 7 6H one 5.4 g 73 .

A mixture of 3 bromo 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy aniline 5.0 g 11.67 mmol 6 methyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1 tosyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 7 6H one 3.85 g 12.84 mmol 1 3 5 7 tetramethyl 6 phenyl 2 4 8 trioxa 6 phosphaadamantane 0.399 g 1.366 mmol tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 0.321 g 0.350 mmol and potassium phosphate 6.19 g 29.2 mmol in dioxane 50 mL and water 12.5 mL was degassed and back filled with nitrogen several times. The reaction mixture was heated at 60 C. for 16 hours and then cooled to ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was partitioned between water and ethyl acetate. The aqueous layer was extracted with additional ethyl acetate three times. The combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash column chromatography silica gel 60 ethyl acetate hexanes to provide 4 5 amino 2 2 4 difluorophenoxy phenyl 6 methyl 1 tosyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 7 6H one 4.40 g 72.3 yield .

A solution of 4 5 amino 2 2 4 difluorophenoxy phenyl 6 methyl 1 tosyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 7 6H one 4.35 g 8.34 mmol in dichloromethane 50 mL was cooled to 0 C. To this solution was added ethanesulfonyl chloride 2.37 mL 25.0 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The aqueous layer was extracted with additional ethyl acetate twice. The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography silica gel 80 ethyl acetate hexanes to provide N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 1 tosyl 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl N ethylsulfonyl ethanesulfonamide 5.34 g 91 yield .

A mixture of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 1 tosyl 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl N ethylsulfonyl ethanesulfonamide 5.3 g 7.5 mmol potassium hydroxide 8.43 g 150 mmol and N N N trimethylhexadecan 1 aminium bromide 0.137 g 0.375 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 60 mL and water 30 mL was heated at 90 C. for 16 hours. Tetrahydrofuran was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was partitioned between water and ethyl acetate. The aqueous layer was neutralized to pH 7 using 10 HCl. The aqueous layer was then extracted with ethyl acetate. The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by flash chromatography silica gel ethyl acetate . The desired fractions were combined and concentrated. The residue was triturated with 20 mL of acetonitrile to provide N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide Form I 2.82 g 82 yield . H NMR 300 MHz DMSO d 1.23 t J 7.3 Hz 3H 3.11 q J 7.3 Hz 2H 3.53 s 3H 6.27 6.22 m 1H 6.91 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 7.13 6.93 m 2H 7.19 dd J 8.8 2.7 Hz 1H 7.32 7.25 m 2H 7.42 7.31 m 2H 9.77 s 1H 12.04 bs 1H . MS ESI m z 460.1 M H .

PXRD analysis of the Form I solid provided the X ray diffraction peaks listed in Table 1. A portion of Form I solid was removed heated to 190 C. and then cooled to room temperature. The resulting material when analyzed by PXRD provided the X ray diffraction peaks listed in Table 2. The DSC thermogram for this material is depicted in . The melting of Form I occurred at about 238.30 C. The TGA curve for this material is depicted in .

Representative thermal characteristics of Form II are shown in . The melting of Form II occurred at about 241.15 C.

3 Bromo 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy aniline 3.24 g 10.80 mmol and triethylamine 4.37 g 43.2 mmol were stirred in dichloromethane 48.1 mL at ambient temperature. Ethanesulfonyl chloride 4.16 g 32.4 mmol was added dropwise and the solution stirred at ambient temperature for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure dioxane 24 mL and sodium hydroxide 10 w v 12 mL 0.427 mmol were added and the solution was heated to 70 C. for 1 hour. The solution was neutralized to a pH of about 7 with saturated aqueous NHCl 200 mL . The aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 125 mL . The combined organics were washed with brine dried anhydrous MgSO filtered and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by flash chromatography silica gel 0 50 ethyl acetate petroleum ether gradient to afford N 3 bromo 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy phenyl ethanesulfonamide 1.4 g 3.57 mmol 33.1 yield .

A mixture of 6 methyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1 tosyl 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 7 6H one 6.00 g 14.0 mmol N 3 bromo 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy phenyl ethanesulfonamide 5.77 g 14.7 mmol 1 3 5 7 tetramethyl 6 phenyl 2 4 8 trioxa 6 phosphaadamantane 0.205 g 0.700 mmol tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 0.321 g 0.350 mmol and potassium phosphate 2.97 g 14.0 mmol was combined and sparged with argon for 30 minutes. A mixture of dioxane 60 mL and water 15 mL was sparged with nitrogen for 30 minutes and transferred by syringe into the reaction vessel under argon. The reaction mixture was stirred at 60 C. for 2 hours cooled to ambient temperature and partitioned between ethyl acetate and water. The organic layer was washed with brine dried anhydrous sodium sulfate treated with silica gel 2 4 g for 45 minutes filtered and concentrated to afford N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 1 tosyl 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide 8 g 13.04 mmol 93 yield .

N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 1 tosyl 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide 8.0 g 13 mmol N N N trimethylhexadecan 1 aminium bromide 0.238 g 0.652 mmol and potassium hydroxide 11.9 g 211 mmol were combined in tetrahydrofuran 66 mL and water 22 mL and the mixture heated at 100 C. for 14 hours. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature and partitioned between ethyl acetate and water and the pH was adjusted to about 7 by careful addition of concentrated HCl. The organic layer was separated washed three times with saturated aqueous sodium chloride dried anhydrous NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was suspended in dichloromethane and heated under reflux for four hours and then cooled to room temperature. The resulting solid was isolated by filtration and rinsed with dichloromethane and hexanes to afford a mixture of N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide Form I and Form II 4.2 g 9.14 mmol 70.1 yield .

A portion of the mixture of Form I and Form II from Step 3B 7.5 g 16.32 mmol was dissolved in a solvent mixture of boiling ethyl acetate 1500 mL and ethanol 50 mL . Heating was discontinued and the hot solution was treated with 3 mercaptopropyl functionalized silica gel Aldrich catalog number 538086 10 g and Darco G 60 10 g stirred for 20 minutes filtered through a 0.5 inch deep pad of Celite and the filtrate was concentrated. The resulting solid was stirred in refluxing ethanol 150 mL for two hours cooled to ambient temperature and the solid was collected by filtration and dried to constant mass 6.517 g 87 recovery to provide N 4 2 4 difluorophenoxy 3 6 methyl 7 oxo 6 7 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 2 3 c pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanesulfonamide Form II.

Form II solid gives X ray diffraction peaks listed in Table 3. A portion of Form II solid generated in Step 4B above was removed heated to 190 C. and then cooled to room temperature. The resulting solid when analyzed by PXRD provided the X ray diffraction peaks listed in Table 4. The DSC thermogram for this material is depicted in . The melting of Form II occurred at about 241.15 C. The TGA curve for this material is depicted in .

