---

title: Self-organizing topology management
abstract: Systems and methods, including procedures, for managing wireless point-to-multipoint networks supporting dynamic topologies with relaying, multi-hop or wireless bridging. A topology management protocol is embedded in a wireless MAC layer in a multi-hop point-to-multipoint network, enabling self-organizing dynamic topology management by using link level information to make decisions for relaying data. The topology management protocol provides for a first node to establish primary and alternate associations with other nodes based on a hub path cost associated with each of the other nodes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09648547&OS=09648547&RS=09648547
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09648547
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140630
---
The present application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 841 170 filed Jun. 28 2013 entitled SELF ORGANIZING TOPOLOGY MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES IMPLEMENTED IN FOR FOR EXAMPLE MILLIMETER WAVE MULTI HOP POINT TO MULTIPOINT NETWORK NODES. The disclosure of the above listed application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Rapid Spanning Tree Protocol RSTP supports the efficient formation and adaption of active tree topologies in a wired local area network LAN where multiple connections between nodes exist. Essentially the protocol operates on a network that is a dynamic mesh of physical links to reliably form a structured tree of active forwarding links.

Traditionally in wireless transport networks links are planned before they are deployed. This is because topologies such as these are known ahead of time and are relatively stable or at least changes can be controlled. An exception to this is when equipment failure occurs or a radio link become unviable e.g. a path is blocked . To manage scenarios like these resilience is typically designed into the topology using for example rings or redundant paths and fail over protocols are used to utilize a known pre planned alternate path. Some of the protocols for Ethernet networks using wireless point to point links to connect bridges include Provider Backbone Bridge Traffic Engineering PBB TE RSTP and G.8032.

A different protocol is needed for wireless point to multipoint networks supporting dynamic topologies with relaying multi hop or wireless bridging. Topologies in these networks are dynamic and nodes may be rapidly lost or discovered making conventional network topology management inefficient.

The need exists for a system that overcomes the above problems as well as one that provides additional benefits. Overall the examples herein of some prior or related systems and their associated limitations are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations of existing or prior systems will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading the following Detailed Description.

Systems and methods including procedures are disclosed herein detailing a new approach for managing wireless point to multipoint networks supporting dynamic topologies with relaying multi hop or wireless bridging. To manage the topology of these networks a topology management protocol can be embedded in the wireless MAC layer rather than being implemented using a hierarchical approach that detaches the transportation of packets over a link and the management of links to use to form an active network. In the case of multi hop networks the MAC layer controlling the links also can determine how to best utilize the available paths and what associations to form with other nodes in the network. It can because it has intimate knowledge of link status. As a result decision making can be located within this layer for ultimate efficiency.

In summary embedding topology management and forwarding or bridging into the wireless MAC layer in a multi hop point to multipoint network enables self organizing dynamic topology management by using link level information to make decisions. It also enables very efficient frame forwarding as there is the potential for this to happen in the lower sub layers of the wireless MAC layer where frame by frame decisions can be made based on link status.

The following terminology is used throughout this document and may be understood to have the following meanings. These meanings are provided for clarity and are not intended to be limiting.

Multi hop topology management has been considered in another point to multipoint wireless system the IEEE 802.16 standard through the features introduced in the 802.16j amendment. 802.16j discusses how a first node forms an association with a preferred superordinate node based on certain criteria. To manage topology change the nodes operate under a protocol adapted from a general handover procedure such that the relay node or its superordinate node may trigger the handover process based on certain criteria e.g. physical link status capacity latency etc. .

This procedure is suitable for a system that supports cellular like handover procedures and those in which links are more likely to gracefully degrade such that a handover can be affected prior to the link becoming unusable. However systems operating in the millimeter wave bands under line of sight conditions using highly directional antennas can rapidly lose links. As a result handover like procedures in these systems would not be a good design choice.

A system according to the present disclosure establishes alternate associations so that when a link is lost connectivity can be rapidly recovered. This system will have much lower fail over time and reduced packet loss potentially zero with a small amount of buffering compared to a similar system that adopted handover type approaches.

As a result the present disclosure proposes a fresh approach to designing a self organizing topology management protocol which can be implemented for example in a system with beamforming capability operating in millimeter wave bands in line of sight conditions that is providing resilient low latency and high bandwidth connectivity.

The present disclosure discusses a topology management protocol that can be embedded into a wireless MAC layer. The wireless MAC layer may be based on IEEE 802.11ad or some other similar MAC protocol for the purposes of supporting highly efficient layer 2 multi hop networks to be constructed and the topology of the networks to be efficiently maintained.

Various examples of the invention will now be described. The following description provides certain specific details for a thorough understanding and enabling description of these examples. One skilled in the relevant technology will understand however that the invention may be practiced without many of these details. Likewise one skilled in the relevant technology will also understand that the invention may include many other obvious features not described in detail herein. Additionally some well known structures or functions may not be shown or described in detail below to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the relevant descriptions of the various examples.

The terminology used below is to be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific examples of the invention. Indeed certain terms may even be emphasized below however any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed Description section.

As noted above the radio transceiver under an aspect of the invention includes an integrated antenna in a SiP including an AiP format. The antenna may be configured to allow the focusing of the energy associated with a transmission in a particular direction beam direction such as to improve the resilience of the link in the form of an overall increase in the signal to noise plus interference ratio.

As a hub or relay station in a multi hop point to multi point or multi hop mesh network topology the node may incorporate 2 3 or 4 modules combined to provide up to complete 360 deg coverage e.g. at intersection 4 radios cover north east south west directions . For a hub if each link is at 1 Gbps then the hub provides up to 4 Gbps capacity. Hub is the point of connection to fiber or other backhaul mechanism behind the 60 GHz multi hop point to multipoint or multi hop mesh network.

Furthermore the hub or relay station may be a standalone unit that is mounted on to an existing structure e.g. a light pole face of a building behind a sign at a bus or train stop etc or it could itself be embedded within that structure. For example a light pole could integrate 1 or more modules and provide PoE to the module as shown in . The light pole with integrated module would then present an integrated interface port e.g. Ethernet port such that any node that required a connection to a wider area network could be affixed to the light pole to not just gain power and a location to be mounted but to also gain connectivity to a communication network. One such example of use of a networked light pole would be where a security camera could be mounted and connected to the Ethernet port on the pole. The networked light pole provides a physical mounting point power and also connectivity of the security camera to a security network enabling the transmission of video frames to a centralized control center and a means for the control center to control the camera. This example is intended to describe one such application that could be enabled by embedded modules into various types of street level furniture and there are many others that can be envisaged if the module is embedded into advertising signs traffic signs bus stops train stops etc. In addition not only do the pieces of street furniture gain the ability to provide access to a communication network to other units mounted on to them but the modules embedded within them can connect together to form a multi hop and or mesh transport network to assist in connecting other networked street furniture elements together.

As an AP basestation or endpoint station the node may incorporate a minimum of 1 wireless communication transceiver module integrated with into a non hub or RS station. In this case only coarse alignment is needed point in either north east south or west direction towards a hub or RS. Installation can be further simplified by increasing number of modules.

One implementation shown in Plan view in includes four vertically orientated modules and one horizontal module as shown. This implementation includes a horizontal module that may incorporate GPS receive functionality. All five modules can be incorporated into a dome similar to that used for GPS receivers including an outer shroud that would be transparent at 60 GHz. The node may be backhaul capable pluggable unit that replaces the GPS dome typically installed on the top of access points or can be added in addition in a similar manner.

Referring back to the baseband processing engine is capable of generating wideband analog I O in phase and quadrature phase signals for modulation to the radio frequency carrier by the radio transceiver as well as configuring parameters associated with the radio transceiver that control the beam direction. The baseband engine is capable of taking digitized information signals on the order of Gbps and transposing them to an analog IQ signal of 1 GHz or greater bandwidth. In addition the baseband engine may dynamically reduce available data rate in order to increase the system gain e.g. by reducing the bandwidth used to reduce the noise in the system or maintaining the wide bandwidth but increasing the coding overhead thereby increasing the processing gain . Increasing the system gain equates to increasing the tolerable propagation loss between a transmitter and receiver hence improving the robustness of a link enabling either an increase in range or resiliency to a link degrading event such as rain that causes an increase in the signal attenuation between a transmitter and receiver. From a protocol layer point of view the Physical layer of the present system includes this baseband processing engine element. In some implementations the interface between the first and second element is at baseband frequency i.e. between the radio transceiver and the baseband processing engine . In other implementations the interface is at some intermediate frequency somewhere between the baseband 0 Hz and RF frequency e.g. 60 GHz . In addition a control interface allows the baseband processing engine to control the properties of the radio transceiver including parameters such as beam direction antenna phase transmit power gain of amplifiers polarization mode etc. These first and second elements combined enable the transmission of digital signals over a wireless link in a certain direction.

Using the control interface the baseband processing engine configures the antenna beam. In some implementations the baseband processing engine configures the antenna beam by applying a set of phase shifts to each element in the array. Alternatively or additionally the baseband processing engine configures the antenna beam by applying a complex number that contains both phase and amplitude gain adjustment for each element in the array. In another form the baseband processing engine configures the antenna beam by turning array elements on and off this could be for example windows in a waveguide structure or could be controlling polarization used for a particular baseband signal. In its simplest form the baseband processing engine identifies a beam identifier ID or antenna weight vector AWV ID or antenna element map AEM ID to be used at any point in time by the RFIC. The RFIC includes a mapping of ID to actual vector or element configuration to apply where the vector or element configuration is determined and optimized during a beam training refinement and or tracking phase. In some implementations the baseband engine provides a full AWV or AM to the RFIC and the baseband engine maintains a list of AWVs AEMs to use for each node that it is communicating with.

In this case the AWV contains a set of phase and gain values where the size of the vector is equal to the number of elements in the antenna array such that the baseband processing engine is able to control both the phase shift and any amplitude gain or attenuation of the signal supplied to each element and possibly a set for each polarization of element in the array. Or if an AEM is used then it contains a set of settings for each element in the array e.g. on off such that the baseband processing engine is able to control the effective spacing between elements in an array and or the polarization used. Either of these approaches and even a combination of them allows the baseband processing engine to form various types of beam pattern and to steer both wanted energy in the desired direction as well as to minimize the transmission of energy in the form of side lobes in an unwanted direction. Similarly it allows the baseband processing engine to control where energy is received from on the receive side. It also enables a baseband engine to employ multiple input multiple output techniques to transmit and receive simultaneously over more than one polarization to increase data rate and or robustness. In the case where the RFIC supports simultaneous transmit and receive operations then the baseband engine configures two sets of AWVs AEMs to control the direction of both the transmit and receive array. In the case where the RFIC supports simultaneous transmit or receive on two different polarizations e.g. vertical and horizontal MIMO then there will be two AWVs AEMs per RFIC

The MAC processing engine controls the transmission of high layer protocol e.g. Ethernet IP etc. packets over one or more wireless links between nodes implementing the disclosed architecture. The MAC engine implements software that contains algorithms and methods to facilitate communication with multiple nodes using directional antennas. It also facilitates communication with nodes not within range of the wireless link such as by using multi hop point to multipont or multi hop techniques to communicate via other nodes. The MAC processing engine is beam aware and intimately involved in the control of the configuration of the radio transceiver through the baseband processing engine to ensure frames and packets are transmitted and received with the appropriate antenna configuration. This is achieved by supplying an associated beam configuration to use when transmitting the frame with each MAC protocol data unit MPDU that is formed and sent to the baseband processing engine that hosts the physical layer functionality. As discussed earlier the beam configuration can be a simple index to a beam ID to use or can be a full AWV. In some implementations the MAC engine enables the use of a baseband processing engine that is not beam aware. For example the MAC engine may interface directly to the RFIC such that it controls the RFIC and the baseband processing engine concurrently to ensure that the signal generated or received by the baseband engine is transmitted or received with the appropriate beam configuration. In such implementations the MAC engine would facilitate beam forming training by configuring the baseband engine in a mode that supports this e.g. low data rate high processing gain and then transitioning it to a data mode e.g. higher data rate reduced processing gain once training is complete. The MAC engine may generate control frames and insert these into the data path e.g. in the form of specially addressed Ethernet frames that the baseband is processing as well as control the PPF function to ensure that frames are only transferred to and from the baseband when it is operating in data mode .

The MAC processing engine is also capable of supporting multi hop point to multipoint or multi hop mesh communications or the transmission of a frame seamlessly over multiple successive wireless links without the intervention of higher layer protocols. It may achieve this by incorporating a layer 2 forwarding function within the MAC layer so that frame forwarding decisions can be made within the MAC layer itself as the MAC layer is aware of the status of inbound and outbound physical links and beam settings. Incorporating a layer 2 forwarding function with the MAC layer enables rapid decision making and optimal decisions to be made by the forwarding function that is both physical layer status and beam aware. One benefit of MAC layer relaying is that per link latency can be reduced compared to using higher layer bridging. In addition the utilization of the inbound and outbound physical layer link can be adjusted in harmony resulting in more efficient transport of packets compared to where relaying was performed without context of the MAC and physical layer status. Referring to this allows a single module to provide both the downstream e.g. to an access point and upstream e.g. to a hub station relaying of frames simultaneously. In implementations in which relaying is provided at a higher layer two modules may be required one connected to the hub and one connected to the access point.

Referring to the MAC engine may also interface with multiple baseband engines such that it is controlling more than one instance of the physical layer. In this case the MAC engine is able to efficiently control the forwarding of frames over links controlled by the two baseband engines.

In general the operation and interaction between the wireless beam aware MAC baseband physical layer and RFIC enables the beams to become analogous to ports in a wired layer 2 Ethernet switch with the wireless MAC layer managing the efficient forwarding of frames from one port which is actually a beam to another.

In addition the functions of the MAC layer support auto discovery of other nodes and maintenance of wireless links found to other nodes without user intervention. The MAC layer also supports the configuration of appropriate frame and packet forwarding or configuration of tunnels to aid forwarding of frame and packets over multiple wireless links between the source and destination node in the wireless network. Auto discovery is supported by nodes that are established and operating in the network transmitting beacons or signals that identify their presence such that nodes wishing to associate with the next node can learn of nodes to which they can gain access to the network. As the beamforming is used by the transmitter this involves having nodes attached to the network beam sweeping the transmission of the beacon. This is achieved by transmitting the beacon multiple times over a period of time each time sending it to the baseband processing engine for transmission using a different beam ID or AWV . The receiver typically listens for such transmissions using either a quasi omnidirectional receive mode or some form of coarse antenna beam to enable it to hear the beacon. As full optimal receive side beamforming is typically not available the beacon is sent using very robust transmission approaches so that it can be received by a node that is not implementing high gain receive side beamforming. Once the beacon is received and the transmitter and receiver are essentially synchronized then receiver side beamforming can take place to enable the transmitter and receiver to communicate using more spectrally efficient encoding schemes thereby achieving the target throughput rates.

The layer 2 PPF enables higher layer packets sourced from or destined to a wireline network to be transported over the wireless link. At a minimum the PPF is responsible for translating Ethernet frames into wireless MAC frames. In the case there are no frames to be sourced from or supplied to the wireless network the PPF may at a minimum act as a power source using power over Ethernet technologies. In the case of a node with multiple modules then the PPF on one of the modules may provide a master function which may include acting as a layer 2 bridge or switch. Referring to the PPF can be associated with one of the four modules shown. The other modules then connect to the first module which provides the PPF between the fiber small form factor pluggable SFP port the master wireless module and the other 3 modules connected to it.

The system effectively converts Ethernet frames and packets encapsulated within them such as IP and or MPLS to mmWave transmission and performs the reverse process for receiving frames and packets to from multiple sources. The module is powered either separately or by using a shared Ethernet and power interface commonly referred to as PoE power over Ethernet .

Referring to general elements that comprise a module are shown and in particular shows multiple modules that may be combined to provide the overall functionality required at a hub relay station access point or end point station. and other similar Figures show alternative implementations with some unused elements from shown grayed out. shows a hub node that provides a backhaul to a wider area network through a fiber SFP port or other appropriate interface e.g. copper Ethernet . The node typically contains 2 3 or 4 60 GHz modules to provide coverage in 2 3 or 4 directions to achieve up to 360 deg coverage. Assuming 1 Gbps capacity per module using a module per direction enables hub to provide 4 Gbps of backhaul capacity. The per module capacity can be upgraded over time for example 2.5 Gbps module utilizes a 10 G fiber connection. Layer 2 PPF including layer 2 switch or bridge functionality may be provided by one module operating in master mode with enough interfaces to support PoE in fiber SFP or other external network connection and up to 3 other 60 GHz modules connecting to it. Alternatively or additionally PPF functionality including layer 2 switch or bridge functionality may be provided by a separate module integrated into the AP or pluggable unit along with the 60 GHz modules.

Full duplex relay with full duplex links Module 1 can be communicating with an AP while Module 2 is relaying frames to from the hub 

Full duplex relay with half duplex links Module 1 can be receiving from an AP while transmitting to the hub or transmitting to the AP while receiving from the hub 

Half duplex relay with full duplex links Module 1 can be communicating with the AP at one point in time then relaying frames to the hub at another point in time and

Half duplex relay with half duplex links Module 1 is either transmitting or receiving to from the AP or node alternating in time between direction and transceiver function.

As well as supporting half duplex operation with time division duplexing two arrays can support full duplex link operation or full duplex relay half duplex link operation using frequency division duplexing. Full duplex link operation is achieved by a transmit Tx and receive Rx array pointing to the same node and allowing packets to be transmitted and sent at the same time. Frequency division full duplex FDD operation is supported without the need for analog domain channel or sub band filter commonly referred to as a duplexer or diplexer and typically required in any FDD communication system that has to share certain elements of the transmitter or receiver e.g. antenna . Due to the high level of integration proposed and the operating frequency it is possible to ensure sufficient isolation between the transmitter and receiver components and antenna arrays to prevent the transmitted signal interfering with the received signal in the analog domain. In light of this transmitted signals may be filtered from received signals entirely in the digital domain.

Isolation between transmitter and receiver components is achieved in various ways. Isolation may be achieved by using separate transmit and receive antennas that are physically separated. At mmWave frequencies the separation does not need to be large due to the short wavelength. Isolation may also be achieved using beamforming to ensure that both the transmit and receive arrays are focused away from each other. Isolation may further be achieved by using robust modulation and coding schemes which can be used due to the abundance of bandwidth meaning that any residual leakage of energy after processing in the digital domain has minimal impact on receiver performance. For example separation of a few centimeters provides at least 30 dB of isolation in addition with beamforming applied the transmit and receive sidelobes can be 30 dB attenuated. The net result is a combined analog domain isolation of 90 dB which is of the order of that provided by a traditional duplexer. Further isolation could be provided by building low profile wall e.g. a sufficiently designed metallic or other material insulator between the two arrays to reduce the effective coupling of signal between the two arrays. It is possible that as well as enabling improved operation e.g. at higher order modulation and coding schemes or reduced digital domain processing requirements on adjacent frequencies that with sufficient additional attenuation by a wall that isolations of 100 dB could be achieved enabling full duplex operation where the same channel is used for both transmit and receive.

Full duplex relay operation is achieved by the Tx array pointing to one node while the Rx array points to the other node the Tx Rx arrays then alternate over time to allow relaying of frames in both directions. This mode of operation can be particularly beneficial in networks with highly asymmetric traffic e.g. downlink centric where data is generally flowing from hub to relay to AP to end point. It also allows a module pointing in a coarse direction that needs to perform relay function to operate efficiently e.g. hub and an AP are both North of the RS . Alternatively if only one array is available or only one array can be active at any one point in time then half duplex operation can be supported.

In the general sense due to the lack of an analog duplexer or diplexer the frequency channel used for transmit and that used for receive can be defined in software as well as whether the system is operating in full or half duplex with frequency or time division duplexing such that software defined duplexing SDD is enabled.

Overall the functional blocks shown in are generally common among e.g. APs and the data path is fixed as per the standard e.g. IEEE 802.11 as this is what enables a node from one vendor to send data packets to another. Specifics of some the algorithms behind the control plane functions can be implementation specific such as beam control link adaptation and dynamic frequency selection. In addition the MAC processing engine may employ MAC layer forwarding of MPDUs as noted here for multi hop point to multipoint relay functionality.

The functional blocks in include MAC SAP MAC Service Data Unit MSDU rate limiting MSDU aggregation A MSDU power saving queuing sequence number assignment MSDU integrity protection fragmentation MAC Protocol Data Unit MPDU encryption integrity MPDU header CRC MPDU aggregation A MPDU MSDU rate limiting MSDU de aggregation A MSDU MSDU integrity protection defragmentation block ack reordering decryption integrity address filtering duplicate removal MPDU header CRC validation and MPDU de aggregation A MPDU . Functional blocks also include MAC layer functions of synchronization power management authentication association traffic management and QoS dynamic frequency selection measurement link adaptation beam control and transmit power control. Functional blocks further include station management entity.

Overall the functional blocks shown in are generally common among e.g. APs though the operation of the encoding decoding LDPC block may differ by implementations. However the module such as the PPF and MAC and BB engines may generally employ off the shelf silicon upon which is layered software firmware to support for efficient multi hop point to multi point relay.

The functional blocks in include guard insertion modulation pulse shaping DACs construct presentation protocol data unit PPDU scrambler low density parity check LDPC repetition PHY SAP MAC I F beam control guard removal demod sync equalize AGC filter ADCs PSDU descrambler LDPC combining phase gain frequency control N way active splitter phase gain frequency control and N way active combiner.

The system supports centralized operations and maintenance OAM and facilitates the node and architecture to be self organizing in the sense that the network of nodes will be a dynamic self organizing network SON supporting multi hop point to multipoint or multi hop mesh topologies. To facilitate this software defined networking SDN approaches may be utilized including the use of OpenFlow such that some of the control plane functionality required to support the operation of the node in a network of nodes is provided by a centralized controller. In this architecture each node presents an application programming interface API to allow the centralized function to control the behavior of the node within the network of nodes.

The system described above includes several elements combined together to create a new type of wireless communications system hardware and embedded software that is able to provide low latency Gbps communications over much longer ranges than may otherwise be possible. In addition the approach of using centralized OAM dynamic SON and SDN and SDD in the case frequency division duplexing is required enables a large network of numerous nodes to be deployed and operated with ease and for the network to be able to self optimize based on traffic patterns and changes in topology caused when certain wireless links become available or unavailable between any two nodes within the network.

The system can be realized using a number of system on chip SoC and system in package SiP devices integrated circuits and systems mounted on to a printed circuit board PCB . Alternatively the various elements can be implemented on separate silicon dies and integrated into one or more SoCs or SiPs and ultimately all the elements can be implemented on a single silicon die and packaged in a SiP.

The hardware module described above forms a basic building block that has multiple features including capable of being combined with access nodes either as an integral module or as a field pluggable device to provide metro wide transport connectivity capable of being packaged with one or more other modules to provide a relay function to allow two or more access nodes to connect capable of being packaged with other modules to provide a hub function to allow nodes to connect to a fiber link to the core network etc.

A node with multiple modules may incorporate all of the elements described on each module or one of the modules can behave as a master module itself driving for example just the PHY and or RF element on one or more other modules.

One benefit of such a solution is that it enables a number of very low cost high capacity simple wireless links to be provided leveraging highly integrated and relatively low cost electronics but by relying on intelligence in the software residing on the modules enables dynamic adaptive low latency and resilient multi hop point to multipoint or multi hop mesh networks to be formed. As such it enables the potential to offer a much lower cost per GB solution but also enables the easy deployment of a very resilient network.

One of ordinary skill in the relevant art will recognize that although not required aspects of the invention may be implemented as computer executable instructions such as routines executed by a general purpose data processing device e.g. a server computer wireless device personal computer etc. Those skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that aspects of the invention can be practiced with other communications data processing or computer system configurations including Internet appliances hand held devices including personal digital assistants PDAs wearable computers all manner of cellular or mobile phones including Voice over IF VoIP phones dumb terminals media players gaming devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics set top boxes network PCs mini computers mainframe computers and the like. Indeed the terms computer server and the like are generally used interchangeably herein and refer to any of the above devices and systems as well as any data processor.

Aspects of the invention can be embodied in a special purpose computer or data processor that is specifically programmed configured or constructed to perform one or more of the computer executable instructions explained in detail herein. While aspects of the invention such as certain functions are described as being performed exclusively on a single device the invention can also be practiced in distributed environments where functions or modules are shared among disparate processing devices which are linked through a communications network such as a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Aspects of the invention may be stored or distributed on tangible computer readable media including magnetically or optically readable computer discs hard wired or preprogrammed chips e.g. EEPROM semiconductor chips nanotechnology memory biological memory or other data storage media. Alternatively computer implemented instructions data structures screen displays and other data under aspects of the invention may be distributed over the Internet or over other networks including wireless networks on a propagated signal on a propagation medium e.g. an electromagnetic wave s a sound wave etc. over a period of time or they may be provided on any analog or digital network packet switched circuit switched or other scheme .

The system may work with various telecommunications elements include 2G 3G 4G network elements including base stations Node Bs eNode Bs etc. picocells etc. Alternatively or additionally the network includes an IP based network that includes e.g. a VoIP broadcast architecture UMA or GAN Generic Access Network broadcast architecture or a femtocell broadcast architecture. Unlicensed Mobile Access or UMA is the commercial name of the 3GPP Generic Access Network or GAN standard . Of course VoIP using WiFi access points APs or other nodes of an IEEE 802.11 network may be used.

This section discusses high level methods and procedures for managing topology formation adaption and frame forwarding. In some implementations the methods and procedures are used in a wireless network in which at least some nodes are point to multipoint capable as well as capable of forwarding or relaying wireless bridging frames. It is anticipated that these procedures will form the basis for a topology management protocol that could form an extension to an existing set of MAC protocols such as those defined in IEEE 802.11ad or as part of a proprietary MAC protocol.

In some implementations the methods and procedures are used in a system communicating in the 60 GHz band and relying on dynamic beamforming in order to support point to multipoint communications over reasonable link distances. The system is also being used to effectively extend the service of a wider area network out to end nodes.

One of the key differences between topology management for dynamic wireless networks and wired Ethernet with RSTP is the notion of association available in wireless networks versus the control over the formation of physical layer links that is available in wired Ethernet networks. For a variety of reasons nodes in a wireless network form associations with each other before an active communications path is formed. The result is that a wireless multi hop point to multipoint network will naturally form as a loop less tree topology as it has control over what physical layer connections to establish.

However a protocol is needed to ensure the efficient formation of an initial tree when the network starts up and to provide support for dynamic adaptation of the topology in a self organizing manner when a node joins or leaves the network or when a link is lost or becomes available.

Any of these events will cause a topology change that could effectively ripple through the network and cause other nodes to change their points of primary association. Therefore any of these events may trigger wide scale topology adaption throughout nodes of a network.

Prior to considering these events that cause changes in topology the first subsection below describes how the initial network topology is formed. The second subsection then addresses events that may cause an adaption in topology.

In some implementations in a wireless network like those described herein a node does not advertise itself as being available for other nodes to connect to i.e. it does not broadcast a beacon indicating its existence until it has itself connected to a network and can provide connectivity to a WAN unless it can itself provide some higher layer service to other connecting nodes.

The first station to start broadcasting its availability is therefore a node with connectivity to the WAN or ability to provide some higher layer service to other nodes this type of node is called a hub node and it is configured as such by the fact that it knows a connection exists to the WAN e.g. fiber wired Ethernet or other wireless connection or it can provide higher layer services e.g. access to stored data or other device that stores or generates data that is to be made available . This node is similar to the root bridge in the case of RSTP.

All non hub nodes are initially scanning to find a node to which they can attach. Nodes that receive beacon information from a hub node consider associating with the hub node. Once a non hub node has associated with a hub node the non hub can also advertise its existence to enable other non hub nodes such as those out of communication range with the hub node to discover and connect to them.

Nodes broadcasting their existence also broadcast other information including a hub path cost. A node detecting multiple nodes broadcasting their existences can evaluate hub path costs received from each node to determine the best node to associate with. In some implementations a primary association is formed with the node broadcasting the best hub path cost.

Hub path cost is a metric quantifying a cost for accessing a hub through a node. In some implementations hub path cost is a function of the characteristics of the path between the node advertising the hub path cost and the hub node. In some implementations characteristics include a total number of links or hops that constitute a hub path. For example if a hub path consists of 4 links the hub path cost would be 4. In some implementations characteristics include an aggregate latency over the links that constitute the hub path. For example if each link of a hub path adds 1 millisecond of latency the hub path cost may be represented as 4 milliseconds. In some implementations characteristics include a cost associated with accessing a WAN via a hub node. For example a hub path cost indicative of a latency of a hub path may factor in a latency associated with a hub node. Accordingly the hub path cost may be representative of a latency between the node and a WAN. In some implementations a hub path cost is determined by the amount of bandwidth available over the path provided by the node advertising the hub path cost which in itself would be the minimum of the hub path cost advertised by the next upstream node and that available to any connecting node. As can be appreciated a hub path cost may indicate at least one of latency and available capacity which are useful for a connecting node to evaluate when selecting the best point of attachment. In the case of a latency related metric for hub path cost a lower value represents a better hub path cost whereas in the case of available bandwidth a higher value represents a better hub path cost. In some implementations a hub path cost is calculated using an inverse function of available bandwidth or path utilization where path utilization could be an absolute value e.g. average Mbps or Gbps utilization or relative e.g. average 10 50 75 of available bandwidth used . Adopting this approach would mean that irrespective of if latency or utilization is used in derivation of the hub path cost the principle that lower is better will always apply.

In some implementations hub path cost is calculated based on a composite of latency and utilization or available bandwidth indicated either as two separate values or weighted to calculate a single hub path cost value. If a weighted value is used the formation of the weighting function may be arranged such that a high value represents high latency high utilization or low available bandwidth or a combination of both. Conversely a low value would indicate low latency and low utilization or high available bandwidth . With this approach for calculating hub path cost a higher value indicates a worse hub path than a node that advertises a lower value.

Hub nodes can also broadcast a hub path cost. A hub path cost associated with a hub node reflects a cost for accessing a WAN or service via a direct connection to that hub node. In some implementations a hub path cost associated with a hub node is indicative of a current latency to access a WAN or service through the hub. In some implementations hub path cost for a hub node reflects a status of the hub node such as its available capacity its utilization e.g. a percent of its bandwidth that is utilized a typical access latency for the hub node or the like. In calculating a hub path cost a node that is not a hub node may factor in a hub path cost of a hub node that it is connected through to a WAN. In some implementations the hub node is itself a server computer offering services and hub path cost reflects a cost for accessing those services.

Hub path cost can also consider other factors or be derived using other methods. In a general sense a hub path cost is a representation of one or more key path related metrics that provide a simple value by which a node seeking to join a network may determine which is the better path to use in addition in the general sense the hub path cost could be a single value derived from a single metric a single value derived from a number of metrics by applying some weighting function or multiple values each representing a single metric and or the result of a weighted function applied to two or more metrics.

A node may also form alternate associations in addition to its primary association. Under a procedure for establishing alternate associations the node performs an association procedure but indicates that the alternate association is an alternate association for the node instead of a primary association that is being setup for purposes of rapid failover.

Under the procedure of at a block the node powers up. At a decision block the node determines whether it is a hub node. If the node is a hub node the procedure continues to a block and the hub node starts a beacon transmission. If the node is not a hub node the procedure proceeds to a block and the node scans for other nodes. At a decision block the node determines whether another node was found. If another node is not found the procedure proceeds to a block and the node continues scanning. If a node is found the procedure proceeds to a block and the node records the hub path cost associated with a found node. At a decision block the node determines whether a scan is complete. A scan may not be complete for example if the hub path cost does not meet an acceptable value. If the scan is not complete the procedure proceeds to block . If the scan is complete the procedure proceeds to a block and the node associates with the best hub path cost node. At a block the node calculates hub path cost as discussed above. At a decision block the node determines whether alternate associations are possible. If no alternate associations are possible the procedure proceeds to a block and association is complete. The procedure then proceeds to block and the node starts a beacon transmission. If at decision block an alternate association is possible the procedure proceeds to a block and the node conducts alternate association procedures. The procedure then proceeds to block and to block .

Once a topology is formed support for adaptation may be needed for at least the following cases to enable the network to continue to be self organizing 

A node joining the network may follow the same association procedure described above and depicted in the example from . Once the new node has selected and completed its primary association it calculates its own hub path cost and starts to advertise this cost to other nodes.

After a new node joins the network the active network topology may be suboptimal. For example a node already having a primary association through another existing node may be able to have a better primary association through the new joining node. That is the hub path cost through the new node may be less or better than the hub path cost through the node s existing primary association. However until the existing node detects and assesses the hub path cost of the new node it will be unaware of the better point of association.

This scenario is particularly problematic in a network that inherently relies on beamforming to enable nodes to communicate with each other as an existing node may not have resources e.g. time to dedicate to blind scanning to detect new nodes. Even if the existing node did have resources it could take some time before the existing node is able to detect the existence of a new node depending on how much time it can devote to blind scanning. Also in a network where changes in topology might not be that frequent but rapid reaction is required when they do occur continual periodic scanning would not be an efficient use of resources.

A protocol according to the present disclosure may limit a node from blind scanning once it is associated and active but allow efficient adaption in topology to enable it to exploit the potential to efficiently optimize its point of primary association.

In some implementations a protocol according to the present disclosure may employ at least one of the following approaches to manage the discovery and evaluation of a new node 

The first of these approaches is essentially passive discovery of a topology change by scanning rather than being informed. As described above this is suboptimal in the case of a millimeter wave system utilizing beamforming as this could result in either lots of time spent scanning and therefore lost time for supporting active communications or latency in time for a network to self optimize when a new node joins the network.

The second involves the node sending a broadcast frame out to other nodes in the network once associated using its primary association and relying on the receiving node to propagate this frame over the network to inform existing nodes that there is a new node in the network. This message may contain information pertinent to assisting existing nodes to evaluating this new node as a potential point of primary association e.g. hub path cost frequency of operation time of broadcast beacon signal waveform encoding information geographic location etc .

Message propagation needs to be managed to prevent unnecessary wide scale flooding in the case of a large network as it would be pointless to inform nodes several 100s of meters away of a new 60 GHz radio node which the distant nodes would not be able to directly communicate with over the air due to propagation loss being too great. In some implementations a lifetime e.g. maximum hop count can be associated with a broadcast message with the count decremented each time the message is forwarded. Once the count reaches zero the message is discarded and does not propagate further through the network. While this is a simple approach there is the potential for inefficiencies due to messages propagating further into the network than required triggering nodes to scan that have zero chance of detecting the messaging node thus wasting resources or messages not getting to nodes due to life time expiration that could detect the new node.

The third approach is often the most efficient and robust. Under this approach when a new node is evaluating nodes for primary association it effectively discovers all nodes within communication range i.e. all nodes that will be able to detect it once it starts transmitting its beacon. As in other approaches the new node selects its primary association and calculates its hub path cost. Then instead of advertising its existence by sending a message on the primary association it communicates directly over the air with other nodes that it previously discovered in order to form reciprocal alternate associations. After doing so a node receiving the alternate association proposal can evaluate if the new node can provide a better hub path cost than its existing primary association. If it can that receiving node can switch its primary association to be to the node joining the network instead of forming an alternate association with it. If not then the association becomes alternate for both nodes and could be used as a primary association in the future by either node if the current primary association fails.

Under the procedure of at a block the node constructs a list of potential alternate association nodes. At a block the node sends an alternate association proposal to a first node in the list. The proposal includes a hub path cost. The procedure proceeds to a decision block and the node determines whether the proposal was accepted. If the proposal is not accepted the procedure proceeds to a block and the node discards the other node from the list. The procedure then proceeds to a decision block . If at decision block the proposal is accepted the node records the other node as an alternate at a block . At a decision block the node determines whether proposals have been sent to all nodes. If not the node sends alternate proposal to the next node in the list and the procedure proceeds back to decision block . If at decision block the node determines that the proposal has been sent to all nodes the procedure ends at a block .

Under the procedure of at a block a node receives an alternate association proposal. At a block the node evaluates a hub path cost of the proposing node. At a decision block the node determines whether it has a better hub path cost than the evaluated hub path cost. If not the procedure proceeds to a decision block and the node determines whether resources are available to maintain an alternate association. If not the procedure proceeds to a block and the node rejects the proposal from the proposing node. If at decision block the node determines that the received hub path cost is better the procedure proceeds to a block and the node makes a counter proposal to the proposing node requesting to make a primary association with the proposing node. At a block the node determines whether the proposing node has accepted the counter proposal. If the proposing node does not accept the counter proposal the procedure proceeds to decision block . If the proposing node does accept the counter proposal the procedure proceeds to block and the node forms a primary association with the proposing node switching an existing primary association to an alternate association. Returning to decision block if resources are available to maintain an alternate association the procedure proceeds to a block and the node accepts the proposal from the proposing node. At a block the node negotiates periods for communicating maintenance information. At a block the node starts period maintenance of the alternate association.

One substantial benefit is that this method and set of procedures enable a new node to join the network and for existing nodes to act to optimize the topology in a distributed dynamic manner without planning or centralized control.

While nodes may exchange frames over alternate associations for maintaining the association no frames will be forwarded using the alternate association.

In a controlled case such as when an operator initiates the power down of a node or a known fault is about to occur e.g. over temperature soft failure etc. the node can exit the network informing other nodes that it is going offline. In an uncontrolled case the node cannot inform other nodes of its exit from the network and those other nodes therefore have to detect that the exiting node is no longer available or operational.

In both cases the topology may need to adapt to heal lost primary associations. In the former case this can happen in an efficient controlled manner in the latter case methods are needed to ensure rapid recovery and to minimize frame loss.

Two operations may be required when a node makes a controlled exit from a network. A first is to initiate disassociation of any nodes that have primary associations with the node exiting the network. A second is to disassociate the exiting node s primary association. In some implementations there may be some delay between the two operations to ensure that any frames that happen to arrive in the interim are forwarded on.

When a node intends to exit the network it first sends a disassociation request message to the nodes that it provides the primary point of association to. The receiving nodes may respond to indicate to the exiting node whether the node exit will cause the receiving node to be orphaned i.e. there are no alternate associations that can become primary . When a node would be orphaned the exiting node or operator of it may reevaluate depending on the reason for exiting the network.

The next step is for the nodes to respond back to indicate they are ready to switch the primary association and an alternative hub path is ready. While waiting for the confirmation of disassociation the exiting node may continue to forward any received frames.

Once all nodes with a primary association to the exiting node have confirmed establishment of the new hub path the exiting node can confirm its intent to exit in order to stop associated nodes from transmitting any more frames through the exiting node. It can then continue to exit the network by conducting the second procedure of disassociating its own primary association. Once this is complete the node sends a final message to the associated nodes to release the radio link as no more frames will be pending for forwarding to them.

In the event of an uncontrolled exit by a node because of for example a catastrophic failure e.g. loss of power equipment failure the exiting node may not be able to inform nodes with primary associations to it or the node with which it has its primary association. Associated nodes may rapidly detect a loss of their primary association by identifying any of a number of events e.g. lack of response to requests lack of timely acknowledgements loss of beacon etc. . All of these can indicate radio link failure RLF status in the MAC triggering fail over for an associated node to an alternate association.

To minimize frame loss the node providing the exiting node s primary association can buffer unacknowledged transmitted frames. Once the forwarding tables are updated and the new path is known to the destination address then buffered frames can be forwarded on to the destination using the new path. Methods for forwarding table update following an uncontrolled node exit are described in Section 2.2.4.2.

The first and second events have been discussed above. The third event can occur due to a number of scenarios that are described further in this subsection.

The fourth event is may be treated in the same way as for the uncontrolled node exit scenario discussed above except that a single point of primary association is lost. The node to which the association is lost may act in the same manner as the node that hosts the primary association of an exiting node buffering and then forwarding frames to minimize frame loss during the period that the node that lost its primary association reconfigures its primary association.

The remainder of this subsection describes procedures for the third scenario which can be caused for example by the following 

Each case is considered in further detail in the following subsections. In all cases when a situation occurs that causes a better hub path cost to be detected by a node then the node will change its point of primary association. It does this by either making a new association and demoting its current primary association to an alternate association or by switching an alternate association having a better hub path cost to primary and demoting its current primary to alternate.

A new link may be detected by a node through periodic scanning using spare time intervals. In some implementations detection of new links is assisted by information from neighboring nodes which provide a summary of the nodes in the neighborhood and possibly information to assist in efficient detection of their beacons. The neighborhood information could be obtained by multiple means such as through distributed approaches involving probing of nodes by requesting the node with the primary association to distribute probing messages over the neighborhood or by collecting information in a central server that can be queried by any one node.

Once a node is in receipt of neighborhood information it can use this to optimize a proactive attempt to detect neighborhood nodes that it does not have a primary or alternate association with. By using a proactive approach for detecting neighboring nodes a node may identify a previously undiscovered node that has a better hub path cost than a node with which it has a primary or alternate association. For example when joining a network a node might only detect one other node and it may be associated with an undesirable hub path cost. Given the limited options available the node may form a primary association with this detected node. However a change in environment may cause an existing node to become viable. For example rain or an object that was obscuring a link between the node and the existing node may disappear. By proactively searching for new links to existing nodes the node can more readily find a more desirable node with which to form an association.

In summary one method as hinted to above involves querying a centralized database e.g. centralized SON server for information about nodes in the vicinity and neighborhood information could include location information frequency of operation time of beacon etc all of which would assist in attempting to discover an existing node.

In some implementations a distributed approach is used under which a node probes for other nodes in the neighborhood. A simple approach is to define a neighbor probe message with a limited lifespan that propagates out over the network via the primary association with the message hop distance limited to prevent full network wide propagation. This message would likely include location information and a request for all nodes receiving the message within a given distance e.g. 100 m to respond back with information regarding its hub path cost beacon transmission information and so forth. This would assist the receiving node in identifying nodes worthy of attempting to discover e.g. better hub path cost good hub path cost for an alternate association etc. and in efficiently discovering those nodes using a directed rather than blind scan.

In some implementations a node advertises known information about a neighborhood in a beacon frame or similar instead of or in addition to using a query based mechanism.

The second case is when a new node joins the network which is described in Section 2.2.1 when the node receives an alternate association proposal having a hub path cost better than the hub path cost associated with the node s current primary association.

The third case is caused when due to of a change in network topology a hub path cost associated with an alternate association is better than a hub path cost associated with a node s primary association. This may be discovered by the node through periodic monitoring of the hub path costs of the primary and alternate nodes. In this case the node reacts by switching the point of primary association swapping the primary and alternate states of the two associations.

After a node changes its point of primary association the path to the hub will change and forwarding tables at intermediate nodes on the old and new path will need to be updated to remove stale entries and to ensure appropriate new entries are added.

In RSTP a topology change notification message is used to propagate an event like this through a network. In some implementations of the present disclosure nodes adopt a similar approach.

In some implementations this approach is used in the case of a controlled change in the point of primary association. In some implementations in the case of uncontrolled node exit it is impossible for the exiting node to communicate a topology change notification and instead the nodes associated with the lost node can send the topology change notification. These two different cases are described in the two following subsections.

Once the point of primary association is changed the node can then broadcast out a topology change notification message. In some implementations nodes that receive this message on a connection that is not their primary association do three actions 

In some implementations a node that receives the message on its primary association does the following three actions 

Under the procedure of at a block the node receives a topology change notification TCN . At a decision block the node determines whether the TCN was received on its primary association. If not the procedure proceeds to a block and the node adds an entry in its forwarding table for the SA on the receiving connection port beam. At a block the node forwards the TCN in a direction of a hub node. At a block the node forwards the TCN to all nodes with a primary association with the node. Returning to decision block if the topology change notification is received on the primary association the procedure proceeds to a block and the node removes any entry in its forwarding table for the SA. At a block the node forwards buffered frames for the SA on its primary association. The procedure then proceeds to block .

As with the neighborhood probe message described earlier the topology change notification could be a complete network wide flood or it could have a limited hop count to limit how far such a message will propagate through the network. In reality it only needs to be received by the nodes that formed the previous hub path therefore the best approach is for the message to only ever propagate in the direction of the hub until an entry for the node in question is found in a forwarding table. At this point the message can then be forwarded down the old hub path to remove stale entries. Adopting this approach ensures that the topology change notification is only propagated to nodes that need to receive the information.

In the uncontrolled case where the node exits the network the node that hosted the primary point of association can detect an uncontrolled exit and use the topology change notification to inform other nodes on the hub path that an exit has occurred. This enables them to remove stale information from forwarding tables. This message may be time stamped so that should the node that exited manage to recover association to the network through another node and the new hub path converges with the old hub path at some point that delayed propagation of the topology change notification with uncontrolled exit information does not cause a new forwarding table entry to be subsequently deleted.

This enables a node receiving the notification with uncontrolled exit information to determine if a new forwarding table entry has occurred after the uncontrolled exit so that it can determine if the information is current or stale and hence persists or is removed.

To ensure topology stability in some implementations appropriately configured timers are utilized in a number of cases before certain procedures are triggered. Some examples include 

Nodes may also monitor a particular primary association and if it is continually changing between primary and alternate causing frequent topology changes it may choose not to make the node with the best hub path cost the point of primary association in order to improve stability in the network. Or it may extend the duration of the timer used between detection of a node with a better hub path cost value and the point at which it acts to change the point of primary association to this node.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling or connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above Detailed Description of examples of the invention is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed above. While specific examples for the invention are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example while processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative implementations may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified to provide alternative or subcombinations. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed or implemented in parallel or may be performed at different times. Further any specific numbers noted herein are only examples alternative implementations may employ differing values or ranges.

The teachings of the invention provided herein can be applied to other systems not necessarily the system described above. The elements and acts of the various examples described above can be combined to provide further implementations of the invention. Some alternative implementations of the invention may include not only additional elements to those implementations noted above but also may include fewer elements.

Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the invention can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further implementations of the invention.

These and other changes can be made to the invention in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain examples of the invention and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the invention can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system may vary considerably in its specific implementation while still being encompassed by the invention disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the invention should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the invention with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the invention to the specific examples disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the invention encompasses not only the disclosed examples but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the invention under the claims.

