---

title: Symbiotic biometric security
abstract: The method, system and device examples provide for a mobile device biometric authentication that authenticates an application user via a biometric input, and thereby reduce the need to enter complex user credentials into a mobile device to gain access to a mobile application. The examples leverage the biometric recognition operations managed by the operating system of the mobile device to allow a mobile application to authenticate the user as a valid user of the mobile application. In an example, a successfully unlocking of a mobile device via a biometric input from a user is used by the mobile application to perform an authentication operation with assistance from an authentication server to authenticate the user of the mobile device as a valid user of the mobile application. As a result, the mobile application grants access to the mobile application based on the user's biometric input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09503894&OS=09503894&RS=09503894
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09503894
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140307
---
Today there are many solutions available for user authentication on mobile devices. These solutions vary in the nature of how users are authenticated. Some use password for authentication others use pattern biometric or facial recognition.

These solutions also vary in the context of how the users are authenticated. The user authentication occurs either at the device level or at the application level. Device level authentication authenticates whether a user is a valid user of mobile device thereby establishing ownership. Device level authentication generally uses knowledge based mechanisms like PINs passwords and visual interfaces. This knowledge based input might be more time consuming and exhausting to the user. Application level authentication on the other hand authenticates whether a user is a valid user of an application installed on the mobile device.

Alternative approaches to device level user authentication are stroke based mechanisms using a touch screen. This approach may be regarded as an extension to the knowledge based authentication with the difference that the user remembers a shape of strokes than a number or a password. The user enters the shape by applying a sequence of strokes rather than using a number or password.

Another alternative authentication method is to use graphical passwords. A graphical password does not consist of digits and letters but of one or more images e.g. an automobile a shoe a horse or a parking meter . One approach is to select a correct sequence of presented images or alternatively to locate special points in a presented image. Graphical passwords can be used on mobile devices but require a certain screen size and resolution and a sufficient method such as a cropping function or the like to select the images or points.

In general application level authentication requires the user to enter at least a password if not a user name as well every time the application is started. This type of authentication presents limitations in terms of usability as well as security. For instance users often need to enter complex usernames and or passwords manually on mobile devices that often have a small screen size. In addition password authentication also presents a security limitation as the application needs to store the password and possibly the user name somewhere on the mobile device for verification.

Biometric authentication is becoming more common on mobile devices for device level authentication. Current mobile applications however do not support biometric technology as a method of application level authentication. The device level biometric authentication does not establish whether a user is a valid user of a mobile application installed on the mobile device. For example if user Annabel uses her fingerprint to gain access to her smartphone it just proves that Annabel is a registered user of the smartphone and does not automatically guarantee that Annabel is a valid user of the banking mobile app installed on that smartphone. The banking application instead may still require user input of a user name and or password.

Hence a need exists for a mobile application level biometric authentication system and method that uses biometric technology offered on a mobile device in the same manner that a smartphone allows users to unlock their mobile device and establish device ownership or authorized use of the mobile device.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

The various examples disclosed herein relate to a mobile application biometric authentication processes and systems. The disclosed mobile device application biometric authentication service offers an easy and secure method that not only performs authentication at the device level but also at the application level. A biometric as described herein refers to physical information obtained from a person that uniquely distinguishes and identifies one person from another. Examples of a biometric are a person s fingerprint a sample of a person s voice a facial image a retinal image and the like. A biometric input is an input of a biometric into a biometric sensor or input component such as a microphone of a device. For example a biometric input is a fingerprint input to a fingerprint scanner an image of a person s face or their retina obtained by a camera or the like. An example provides for pairing a valid user s fingerprint input for logging into a mobile application with mobile device identifier and based on a valid recognition of the valid user s fingerprint by the mobile device the valid user is given access to data through the mobile application. A mobile application may be any application program instructions that execute on a mobile device. Such an application often provides access to data stored on the mobile device stored in a remote database accessible through a data network or a combination of both. Examples of mobile applications include banking applications medical records and service applications investment applications video service applications e.g. video streaming services digital media e.g. audio and video stores and the like. A data network is a network through which data is commonly exchanged such as for example a private intranet or the public Internet. The data network may be coupled to a cellular communication network as well as other networks. The data that may be accessed via the mobile application may be personal to the valid user such as financial data medical information identifying information e.g. Social Security Number and the like.

Reference now is made in detail to the examples illustrated in the accompanying drawings and discussed below.

The wireless mobile communication network might be implemented as a network conforming to the code division multiple access CDMA IS 95 standard the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 wireless IP network standard or the Evolution Data Optimized EVDO standard the Global System for Mobile GSM communication standard a time division multiple access TDMA standard Long Term Evolution LTE standard or other standards used for public mobile wireless communications. The mobile devices and generally referred to as may are capable of voice telephone communications through the network and for the mobile application biometric authentication services the exemplary devices and are capable of data communications through the particular type of network and the users thereof typically will have subscribed to data service through the network .

The network allows users of the mobile devices such as and and other mobile devices not shown to initiate and receive telephone calls to each other as well as through the public switched telephone network or PSTN and telephone devices connected to the PSTN. The network typically offers a variety of data services via the Internet such as downloads web browsing email etc. By way of example the drawing shows a laptop PC type user terminal as well as a server connected to the Internet and the data services for the mobile devices via the Internet may be with devices like those shown at and as well as with a variety of other types of devices or systems capable of data communications through various interconnected networks. The mobile devices and of users of the mobile application biometric authentication service also can receive and execute applications written in various programming languages as discussed in more detail below.

Mobile devices can take the form of portable handsets smart phones or personal digital assistants although they may be implemented in other form factors. Program applications including an application to assist in or otherwise use the mobile application biometric authentication service can be configured to execute on many different types of mobile devices . For example a mobile device application can be written to execute on a binary runtime environment for an iOS mobile device a BREW based mobile device a Windows Mobile based mobile device Android Java Mobile or RIM based mobile device such as a BlackBerry or the like. Some of these types of devices can employ a multi tasking operating system.

The mobile communication network can be implemented by a number of interconnected networks that are controlled by or cooperate with a network service provider e.g. a cellular communication carrier . Hence the overall network may include a number of radio access networks RANs as well as regional ground networks interconnecting a number of RANs and a wide area network WAN interconnecting the regional ground networks to core network elements. A regional portion of the network such as network serving mobile devices can include one or more RANs and a regional circuit and or packet switched network and associated signaling network facilities. The operator of the system or network may also operate other connected networks or elements such as those shown at in . The network e.g. through its mobile traffic network s provides communications connectivities to various other networks and devices shown generally at in the drawing outside the dotted line of demarcation of system network . In our simple example the elements generally shown at include various communication networks e.g. the public switched telephone network PSTN and Internet and devices e.g. phone terminal device and host or server computer that have access to the overall network . The networks may be controlled by or cooperate with the cellular communication carrier but are often operated by other entities.

Physical elements of a RAN operated by one of the mobile service providers or carriers include base stations BSs . Although not separately shown such a base station can include a base transceiver system BTS which can communicate via an antennae system at the site of base device and over the airlink with one or more of the mobile devices when the mobile devices are within range. Each base station can include a BTS coupled to several antennae mounted on a radio tower within a coverage area often referred to as a cell. The BTS is the part of the radio network that sends and receives RF signals to from the mobile devices that are served by the base station .

The radio access networks can also include a traffic network represented generally by the cloud at which carries the user communications and data for the mobile devices between the base stations and other elements with or through which the mobile devices communicate. The network can also include other elements that support functionality other than device to device media transfer services such as messaging service messages and voice communications. Specific elements of the network for carrying the voice and data traffic and for controlling various aspects of the calls or sessions through the network are omitted here form simplicity. It will be understood that the various network elements can communicate with each other and other aspects of the mobile communications network and other networks e.g. PSTN and the Internet either directly or indirectly.

The cellular communication carrier will also operate a number of systems that provide ancillary functions in support of the communications services and or application services provided through the network and those elements communicate with other nodes or elements of the network via one or more private IP type packet data networks sometimes referred to as an Intranet i.e. a private networks. Generally such systems are part of or connected for communication via the private network . It should be apparent however that systems outside of the private network could serve the same functions as well. Examples of such systems in this case operated by the network service provider as part of the overall network which communicate through the intranet type network include one or more application servers and a related authentication server for the application service of server .

A mobile device communicates over the air with a base station and through the traffic network for various voice and data communications e.g. through the Internet with a server and or with application servers . If the mobile service carrier offers the mobile application biometric authentication service the service may be hosted on a carrier operated application server for communication via the networks and . Alternatively the mobile application biometric authentication service may be provided by a separate entity alone or through agreements with the carrier in which case the service may be hosted on an application server such as server connected for communication via the networks and . Servers such as and may provide any of a variety of common application or service functions in support of or in addition to an application program running on the mobile device . However for purposes of further discussion we will focus on functions thereof in support of the mobile application biometric authentication service. For a given service including the mobile application biometric authentication service an application program within the mobile device may be considered as a client and the programming at or may be considered as the server application for the particular service.

To insure that the application service offered by server is available to only authorized devices users the provider of the application service also deploys an authentication server . The authentication server could be a separate physical server as shown or authentication server could be implemented as another program module running on the same hardware platform as the server application . In some examples when the server application server in our example receives a service request from a client application on a mobile device the server application provides appropriate information to the authentication server to allow server application to authenticate the mobile device as outlined herein. Upon successful authentication the server informs the server application which in turn provides access to the service via data communication through the various communication elements e.g. and of the network . Alternatively the mobile device may communicate directly with the authentication server to authenticate a user via a biometric input. Similar authentication functions may be provided for examples of the mobile application biometric authentication service s offered via the server either by the server if there is an appropriate arrangement between the carrier and the operator of server by a program on the server or via a separate authentication server not shown connected to the Internet .

For example a user may wish to access a user account e.g. a cell phone service account and may launch a mobile application on a mobile device . In response to the mobile application launch the mobile application establishes through the mobile device a connection with the application server to access user account information. Before the application server provides the user with access to account information the application server may require the user to authenticate him herself as a valid user associated with the user account that the user is attempting to access. The application server may send a request to the authentication server to authenticate the mobile device . Authentication information e.g. user credentials such as username and or password may be provided by the user through the mobile application on the mobile device either directly to the authentication server or by providing the authentication information to the application server which forwards the authentication information to the authentication server . As explained in more detail later the authentication information may include an authentication key a device identifier and possibly other data for the server to process to validate user authentication. Alternatively the mobile application in response to the launch may establish a connection directly with the authentication server which then provides a connection to the application server . Of course other methods of authenticating a user may be used. After successful authentication by the authentication server the user is able to access the user account information.

The enhanced mobile application biometric authentication service under consideration here may be delivered to touch screen type mobile devices as well as to non touch type mobile devices. Hence our simple example shows the mobile device MD as a non touch type mobile device and shows the mobile device MD as a touch screen type mobile device. Implementation of the mobile application biometric authentication service will involve at least some execution of programming in the mobile devices as well as implementation of user input output functions and data communications through the network from the mobile devices and

Prerequisites for using mobile application biometric authentication service as described by way of the following examples are that a mobile device is enabled to accept biometrics for unlocking the mobile device and that the user should have already registered her biometric such as a fingerprint voice print or the like with the device to have established device level authentication with the respective mobile device. In other words the user is able to use the biometric to access e.g. unlock the user s mobile device. The described examples of the mobile application biometric authentication service use the mobile device s operating system biometric device unlock feature as a method to assure that the user is the valid user of the mobile application. In other words the mobile application leverages the mobile device s biometric recognition capabilities as a first level of authentication of the user. In response to the mobile device s operating system successfully recognizing the inputted user biometric e.g. fingerprint and unlocking the mobile device the mobile application performs additional authentication steps.

Prior to being able to authenticate a valid user through the use of the mobile application biometric authentication service the valid user is prompted to complete a registration process. This is a one time process and typically only needs to be carried out when a user initially chooses to use the biometric option provided by the mobile application. A similar registration may be required for each application that allows the biometric authentication. In order to be able to be authenticated a user registers their biometric identifier with an authentication server associated with the mobile application. For example if the mobile application is a banking application the bank or a bank related entity e.g. a vendor hired by a bank to manage administer the banking application will provide an authentication server such as authentication server in to authenticate user credentials provided by the mobile device. The authentication server for example authenticates the user of the mobile device as a valid user and as a result the user is permitted to access data via the mobile application. The user biometric may be one or more of a fingerprint voice password retinal scan facial recognition of the user that is to be using the mobile application. The biometric identifier may be an identifier associated with the user s biometric or associated with the user s use of a biometric for application access.

For ease of explanation and illustration only the fingerprint biometric will be discussed and illustrated in the figures but the other biometrics e.g. voice or face recognition may be similarly used in the registration process and for any subsequent authentication process.

In general the registration process associates the fingerprint of the valid user with the mobile application by using a particular mobile device identifier. In other words during the registration process the fact that a user is able to log into their mobile device having an identifier such an mobile device number MDN of 777 777 7777 using their fingerprint is used by the authentication server to associate or register the user with the Wells Fargo mobile banking application as a valid user. The registration process for registering a user s biometric as a substitute for inputting user credentials when logging into a mobile application will now be described in more detail with reference to .

As background User may for example have a complex combination of user name and password for gaining access to a mobile application that they use frequently. User may want to avoid the cumbersome process of using the complex combination of user name and password to log into the mobile application by instead using the herein disclosed examples of a mobile application biometric authentication service to log into the mobile application . In order for User to take advantage of the mobile application biometric authentication service User first registers her biometric with the mobile application . With the mobile device unlocked and prepared to accept user inputs the mobile device may present on a mobile device display a number of mobile applications that are available on the mobile device . User via a user input to the mobile device selects Step mobile application installed on the mobile device . In response to the selection the mobile application may launch a welcome screen on the display of the mobile device Step and may present on the mobile device display a menu with a number of biometric login preference options from which User may select. Different biometric login options may be presented on the mobile device display . For example a general biometric login option may be presented on the display . Upon selection of the general biometric login option the mobile application may prompt the User to select a specific type of preferred biometric login setting such as a fingerprint recognition login a facial recognition login a voice recognition login a retinal recognition login or the like. Alternatively the presented biometric login option may be for only the specific type of biometric available on the mobile device. For example if the mobile device supports both voice and fingerprint login then both may be presented. In yet another alternative only fingerprint login may be offered.

In the example of the user selects the Register Fingerprint Option as a preferred user biometric login preference at Step . In response to selection of the register fingerprint recognition option the mobile application prompts User to provide text based user credentials such as a user username and a password or similar identifying alphanumeric characters or information to log into the mobile application Step . The user credentials may have been provided by User when initially installing the mobile application on the mobile device or when establishing a user account associated with the mobile application . For example if mobile application is a banking application the authentication server for the bank may require each user to establish user credentials when associating the mobile application with the user s bank account. A similar scenario may apply to other types of user accounts such as user accounts with streaming video services on line mobile network account services on line application or media stores e commerce services and the like. In response to the prompt User inputs her user credentials to log into the application in order to have access data provided via the mobile application .

The mobile application causes the user credentials provided in response to the prompt to be transmitted by the mobile device to an authentication server shown in other drawings associated with the mobile application . Based on the inputted user credentials the authentication server authenticates the user as a valid user. As a result User is successfully authenticated based on the inputted username password and is logged into the mobile application Step . Upon being logged into the mobile application and in response to the User selection of the register fingerprint option selected at the mobile application forwards an instruction Step to the mobile device operating system OS to lock the mobile device step and to present a fingerprint unlock screen Step on the mobile device screen . Examples of mobile device operating systems OS include Android Apple iOS I Phone or iPad devices Windows Mobile RIM BlackBerry operating system or the like and will be discussed in more detail below. The fingerprint unlock screen for example is a prompt to use a fingerprint to unlock the mobile device. The mobile device is now locked and is presented on the mobile device display .

In response to the presented fingerprint unlock screen User responds by placing a finger on a fingerprint sensor not shown but explained in more detail below for scanning of the finger s fingerprint Step . At this point in the registration process the mobile device application may set a time limit for the User to respond to the fingerprint unlock screen. For example the mobile application may set the time limit for inputting a fingerprint at 25 seconds 30 seconds or the like. If the User has not inputted a fingerprint by the end of the set time limit the mobile application may close generate a prompt asking if the user wishes to continue with the fingerprint i.e. biometric registration process or the like.

If the User enters the fingerprint within the set time limit the mobile device OS performs a fingerprint recognition process. If the fingerprint verification fails the mobile device will stay in the Locked state. Re tries may be available e.g. if supported by the particular OS. Conversely if the fingerprint is successfully verified by the mobile device OS as being associated with User the mobile device OS at causes the mobile device to be unlocked and provides a signal indicating that the verification of the User fingerprint was successful to the mobile application .

At this time it may be helpful to discuss the interaction between the mobile device OS and the mobile application . The mobile device stores and runs an OS through which specific applications may interact when executing on the mobile device. The mobile device OS provides an application programming interface API for developers to access and use the device biometric e.g. fingerprint unlock functionality. Through the OS API the mobile application is able to request such as via instruction generated at that the OS lock the mobile device and present the fingerprint unlock screen and also obtain an indication that the OS has verified the inputted fingerprint as belonging to User such as . As a result of signals provided through the OS API the mobile application is able to perform the preceding functions as well as the following functions.

For example the mobile device OS via the API may simply provide to the mobile application a notification that the mobile device was unlocked by the fingerprint input which results in the removal of the fingerprint unlock screen from the mobile device display . Alternatively some other signal may be generated in response to a successful fingerprint verification by the mobile device OS such as a Boolean value or integer value regarding user action and result. For example a True value or integer 1 value indicates a successful authentication result. While the signal indicating successful verification allows User to access the mobile application at this stage of our example the fingerprint registration process has not yet been completed.

In response to receiving the indication that the fingerprint was successfully verified by the mobile device OS via the OS API the mobile application retrieves an identifier for transmission to the authentication server of the mobile application. The identifier may be an identifier associated with the mobile device . For example the mobile device identifier may include at least one of a mobile device serial number SN a mobile device number MDN integrated circuit card identifier ICCID and an International Mobile Device Equipment Identity IMEI retrieved from the mobile device memory not shown and or either a universal integrated circuit card IUCC or a subscriber identity module SIM not shown . It is noted that the mobile device identifier is not limited to the SN MDN ICCID or the like and includes all other possible identifiers of the mobile device . Such as device specific identifier may be combined with other identifying information such as a user name or mobile service account identifier if different from the device identifier .

The mobile device application exchanges the identifier information with the authentication server at step . The authentication server such as authentication server of performs a registration process that will be described in more detail with reference to . The authentication server for example returns an authentication key that may be used when User wants to access the mobile application using the biometric login. In this example the returned authentication key is only used to authenticate a user when the biometric mobile application login is performed. In another example the authentication key may be used for regular complex password based authentication that is also provided by the mobile device. In another alternative the authentication key may also be used with voiceprint authentication if the OS supports the voiceprint authentication feature. The authentication key is stored to a memory in the mobile device such as a secure element memory like a subscriber identity module SIM card or other type of universal integrated circuit card UICC . In addition the mobile device user preference settings are set to indicate that User can use the fingerprint unlock screen to gain access to the mobile application data. The user is now registered to access the mobile device application using the fingerprint unlock screen and the fingerprint registration is complete .

As shown in the example login registration utilizes the mobile device s biometric login capabilities in this example the fingerprint login as part of the authentication process. Another part of the authentication process is the generation of the authentication key by an authentication server associated with the mobile application .

As mentioned with respect to at step the mobile application interacts with authentication server to begin the authentication key generation process . In response to a successful verification of the biometric e.g. fingerprint input by the User the mobile application obtains an identifier associated with the mobile device from a memory location accessible by a processor of the mobile device . The identifier may be one or more of the MDN ICCID and IMEID associated with the mobile device . An additional level of security is obtained by using more than one of the identifiers. For example users often provide the mobile device MDN as part of the user contact information so the MDN may be an identifier that is easily obtained by a potential bad actor. However the ICCID and IMEID of the mobile device are less easily obtained and as a result when used to generate the authentication key provide an additional level of security. Of course the mobile application may send other identifiers and or combinations of identifiers such as a secure code that is provided by short message service SMS after the user logs in using the fingerprint or an identifier that is stored on the mobile device at the time the mobile application is installed on the mobile device or the like to the authentication server . For example the mobile application may be configured to cause an SMS message containing an authentication key e.g. passcode mobile device identifier authentication information as described herein or the like to be sent from the mobile device to the authentication server for use with authenticating the user. Alternatively at time of registration which is described in more detail with respect to of the user with the authentication server the authentication server may generate an SMS message containing a code that is sent to the user to input during the registration process.

The identifiers are sent over a wired or wireless communication path to the authentication server associated with the mobile application . The wired communication path may be for example when the mobile device is coupled to a computer such as a personal computer PC or a laptop computer e.g. of and the computer via a web browser is interacting with the authentication server through a website associated with the mobile application . Alternatively the wireless communication path may be via a cellular connection through for example network of or via a Wi Fi or other wireless access system to a network such as the Internet .

When the authentication server receives the identifiers the authentication server computes an authentication key for example using the MDN ICCID and the IMEID by applying a function to values representing the MDN ICCID and the IMEID identifiers . An example of the function used to generate the authentication key may be a hash function. The hash function using as inputs the MDN value the ICCID value and the IMEID value generates a hash key.

After computing the authentication key i.e. hash key the authentication key may be secured by encrypting the authentication key and the secure authentication key is sent to the mobile application as an indication of a successful registration . In other examples the computed authentication key is left unsecured in which case step may be omitted.

In response to receiving the secure authentication key the mobile application saves the secure authentication key on the mobile device in a secure application memory location after decryption if encrypted by optional step . The secure application memory location is a memory location that only the mobile application is permitted to access. For example the secure application memory location may be a portion of memory in a secure element of the mobile device for example in a memory incorporated in the SIM or other type of UICC of the mobile device . The secure element and the UICC SIM memory examples will be discussed in more detail with reference to .

After storing the authentication key the fingerprint authentication is now successfully registered with the mobile application and step of as described above can be performed.

Upon registration of the User fingerprint with the mobile application any subsequent launches of the mobile application on the mobile device will allow User to use their fingerprint to log into the mobile application . A subsequent user interaction with the mobile application is illustrated in .

The subsequent login process of includes the mobile device the mobile application executing on the mobile device and the authentication server . In step User logs into the mobile device via the device login prompt . This login involves a device level biometric authentication controlled by execution of the device OS. After successfully logging into the mobile device User may be presented on a display of the mobile device with a menu or screen containing a display of the installed applications such as App App and mobile application up to App n where n is an integer. In response to a selection of mobile app from the displayed menu or screen the mobile application launches . After launch the mobile application presents a menu that prompts the user to select a login option. The options may be limited based on user preferences that are stored in a memory of the mobile device . For example in response to receiving the input selecting the mobile application the mobile application confirms that a login preference setting for authenticating a user by the mobile device application includes a biometric login preference setting. Based on the user biometric login preference settings some of the presented options may be for example username password fingerprint voice and facial recognition.

Alternatively the menu may be limited to username password and fingerprint or the menu may be skipped once registered for fingerprint authentication i.e. fingerprint login to the mobile device application . If offered the username password option may allow the user an alternate access e.g. if the user perceives a problem with the biometric authentication. In another alternative in response to the selection of the mobile application from the display of installed applications user preference settings in the mobile device may cause the presentation of the menu to be bypassed and the mobile device OS or mobile application may generate instruction simply based on the user selection of mobile application.

Returning to the illustrated example in response to the User selection of the fingerprint login option the mobile application interacts with the mobile device OS via an API as described with reference to element by requesting or instructing at the mobile device OS to lock the mobile device and generate the fingerprint unlock prompt screen .

In response to the presentation of the fingerprint unlock screen User applies at a fingerprint to a fingerprint sensor not shown of the mobile device to provide a fingerprint input to unlock the mobile device . The mobile device OS at analyzes the fingerprint input and either successfully verifies or fails to verify User s fingerprint input in a manner similar to the operations discussed earlier regarding step of process .

When performing the fingerprint input analysis the mobile device OS may for example perform a comparison of information derived from the inputted fingerprint information to previously stored fingerprint information. Of course other techniques may be used to verify the inputted fingerprint as that of a verified user of the mobile device . For the examples presented herein the method used for analyzing the inputted fingerprint by the mobile device OS may be any suitable analysis method that is able to provide some indication of the results e.g. a device unlock signal a fingerprint recognition event signal or the like of the fingerprint analysis to the mobile application .

The fingerprint input analysis at returns depending upon the analysis results either a verification failure signal i.e. FAIL or a verified user i.e. Verified User signal to an authentication routine of the mobile application . The authentication routine may be software that is part of a software development kit provided either by the mobile device original equipment manufacturer OEM or by the mobile device OS provider.

In response to receiving the verification failure signal from the mobile device OS the mobile device OS causes the mobile device to remain locked . In addition the mobile device OS may cause a fingerprint unlock screen to be presented on a display of the mobile device prompting the User to retry the fingerprint login process.

Alternatively if the mobile device OS at successfully verifies the User fingerprint input as belonging to an authorized user the mobile device OS unlocks the device in response to a verified user signal and forwards the verified user signal to the mobile application authentication routine . In response to receiving the verified i.e. authorized user signal the authentication routine forwards authentication information described in more detail below with respect to to the authentication server . Optionally or in addition while the mobile application is forwarding the authentication information to the authentication server and waiting for a response from the authentication server the mobile device OS may permit the mobile application to present a screen indicating that the mobile application is in the process of authenticating the user as a valid user of the mobile application .

The authentication server may be associated with the mobile application . For example if the mobile application is a digital media streaming application that delivers steaming videos from a content server the authentication server may be associated with the content server and authenticate based on the forwarded authenticating information the mobile device user as a subscriber and or the mobile device as a device authorized to receive content from the content server. Alternatively the authentication server may be associated with a network service provider that provides network services e.g. cellular and or data services to the mobile device or may be associated with a third party vendor that provides the authentication service.

In response to receiving the authentication information the authentication server performs an authentication process e.g. represented by A which is described in more detail below with respect to . If the authentication server successfully authenticates User as a valid user the authentication server returns a signal e.g. Success Valid User to the mobile device and the authentication routine of mobile application indicating that the authentication process A performed by the authentication server was successful. Based on the successful authentication signal received from the application server the mobile application via the authentication routine causes the presentation of an application welcome screen in which case User is logged into the mobile application and able to access data associated with the mobile application .

Alternatively there may be at least two general areas in which an authentication failure may occur fingerprint authentication and authentication failure by the server. The fingerprint authentication is an OS function. The mobile device OS has access to the information either in a device memory or via access to a remote server for authenticating an inputted fingerprint as an authorized user of the mobile device . If the mobile device OS fails to authenticate the user the OS at may generate a fingerprint analysis failure FAIL signal that is provided to the device locked function and the OS may cause the presentation of a fingerprint authentication failure screen not shown . In which case the user may make another attempt to authenticate themselves via a fingerprint input as an authorized user of the mobile device . However this is different from being a valid user of the mobile application . Optionally or in addition to maintaining the mobile device in a locked state the mobile device OS may provide the failure FAIL signal to the mobile application . In response to receiving the fingerprint failure signal the mobile application may generate the application error screen .

The other authentication failure an authentication server failure i.e. a failure in which the authentication server cannot authenticate the user based on the provided authentication information may be caused by a number of factors such as corruption of one of the identifiers corruption of the stored authentication hash function result errors in or interference with the transmitted signal and the like. For example one of the identifiers sent by the mobile device may be corrupted and the hash function performed by the authentication server using the identifier does not return a result matching the stored hash function result but the user fingerprint is an authentic user fingerprint. The authentication server failure alone will not prevent an authorized user of mobile device from unlocking the mobile device but will prevent the user from accessing the mobile application . if the authentication server fails to authenticate the User based on the analysis of the authentication information provided by the mobile device application the authentication server returns an authentication failure e.g. FAIL signal to the authentication routine of the mobile application and the mobile device . As a result in response to receiving the authentication failure signal e.g. FAIL from the authentication server indicating that the authentication information is incorrect the mobile application via the authentication routine causes the presentation of an application error screen and may cancel the fingerprint login attempt or generate a prompt for User to retry the fingerprint scan. For example at in response to the authentication failure signal the mobile application may cause the display of menu with a prompt for selection of an access method e.g. voice username password fingerprint and the like to the mobile application .

After a pre determined number e.g. 3 5 of unsuccessful attempts to authenticate User by authentication routine the mobile application may present an error screen and then proceed to close for example. Alternatively the mobile application depending upon the type of application e.g. a media streaming service versus a banking application may allow a user more or less attempts at successfully authenticating themselves. For example the banking application may only allow a user to attempt 1 or 2 times to authenticate before requiring a user to input an identification number or log on via a website while the media streaming application may allow 4 or 5 attempts to logging in before locking a user out of the biometric authentication. In another alternative the mobile application depending on the type of service being provided may allow an extended amount of time to input the fingerprint for scanning. For example an application directed to handicapped persons or elderly persons may allocate more time for the user to input a fingerprint for scanning while a gaming application may provide the standard e.g. 25 seconds amount of time for inputting a fingerprint for scanning. In addition the mobile application causes a notification of the unsuccessful attempts to authenticate to be sent to a notification destination of the valid user of mobile application. For example the number of unsuccessful attempt notifications sent e.g. after each unsuccessful attempt or after a maximum number of allowed attempts may be set by the user in a user preferences of the mobile application . Even though User was unsuccessful in this authentication attempt User may be determined to be a valid user after a subsequent attempt. For example upon the second attempt User may be determined to be the valid user. The mobile application may allow the mobile device to be unlocked by which ever methods are available via the user preference settings and function as normal until a maximum number of allowed attempts are made. The maximum number may be set by the mobile application developer or by the user via a user preferences setting for the mobile application or mobile device . After failing to authenticate within the maximum number of allowed attempts the system may fall back to another form of authentication such as a user ID and password authentication method.

As an alternative to the authentication routine of the mobile device application sending an authentication failure signal to the mobile device OS the mobile device application may not send any signal to the mobile device OS in which case the mobile device OS simply maintains the locked state of the device.

The authentication process A performed by the authentication server will now be described in more detail with reference to . illustrates a high level functional block diagram illustrating an example of a mobile application user authentication via a biometric login process example of . The system of includes mobile device and authentication server . The mobile device includes mobile application mobile device secure memory mobile device memory and secure element UICC SIM SE . The mobile application executes on a processor described in more detail with respect to of the mobile device .

To summarize from the above discussion the mobile device OS in response to verifying the fingerprint input as belonging to a verified user at returns via an API a verified user signal to the authentication routine of the mobile application . And in response to receiving the verified user signal the authentication routine forwards authentication information to the authentication server . Recall that the authentication information includes an authentication key and an identifier of the mobile device . The identifier of the mobile device may be one or more of the MDN the ICCID and the IMEID of the mobile device . Note that in some examples the forwarded biometric authentication information may be different from password authentication information i.e. authentication information passed to the authentication server when the user accesses the mobile application using a password or passcode while in other examples the authentication information is the same regardless of whether the authentication method was via biometric input or password input.

Prior to forwarding the authentication information to the authentication server the mobile application performs a number of functions. For example the mobile application accesses memory locations associated with the mobile application to obtain an identifier to be included in the authentication information message sent to the authentication server .

Now with reference to the identifier for example may be one or more of the MDN ICCID and IMEID associated with the mobile device . An additional level of security is obtained by using more than one of the identifiers. Of course other identifiers and or combinations of identifiers such as a secure code that is provided by short message service SMS after the user logs in using the fingerprint or an identifier that is stored on the mobile device at the time mobile application is installed on the mobile device or the like may be used.

The mobile application may obtain the identifier associated with mobile device for the authentication information message from a memory accessible by the mobile device processor. For example the mobile application may obtain from a mobile device memory an MDN and or IMEID associated with the mobile device . Similarly or in addition the mobile device processor may access the mobile device secure element SE of the mobile device to retrieve an ICCID associated with the mobile device . In addition to the other retrieved identifier s the mobile application also retrieves the secure authentication key stored from the registration process of .

The authentication information e.g. identifiers and secure authentication key are sent by the mobile application over a wired or wireless communication path to the authentication server associated with the mobile application . The wired communication path may be for example when the mobile device is coupled to a computer such as a personal computer PC or a laptop computer e.g. of and the computer via a web browser is interacting with the authentication server through a website associated with the mobile application . Alternatively the wireless communication path may be via a cellular connection through for example network of or via a Wi Fi or other wireless access system to a network such as the Internet .

When the authentication server receives the identifiers and secure authentication key the authentication server performs the authentication process A referred to in the discussion of . For example at step the authentication server computes or re computes an authentication key using the MDN ICCID and the IMEID by applying a function to values representing the MDN ICCID and the IMEID identifiers. An example of the function used to generate the authentication key may be a hash function. The hash function using as inputs the MDN value the ICCID value and the IMEID value generates a hash key.

After re computing the authentication key i.e. hash key from the received identifiers the authentication server for example re generates a secure authentication key from the provided MDN ICCID and IMEID values. The re computed authentication key may be made secure for example by encrypting the authentication key or by other processing that may simply add bits to the re computed authentication key to provide a regenerated secure authentication key. In other examples the re computed authentication key is left unsecured in which case step may be omitted.

The authentication server at compares the regenerated secure authentication key to the stored secure authentication key provided by the mobile application as part of the authentication information the device transmitted after successful device unlock based on the user fingerprint verification.

The authentication server outputs a signal based on the results of the comparison . For example if the comparison made by the authentication server cannot authenticate User as a valid user the authentication server authentication process A returns a FAIL signal to the mobile application . Conversely if the comparison yields a match result the authentication process A returns a SUCCESS Valid User signal to the mobile application .

As mentioned prior to the discussion of various biometric inputs may be used instead of the described fingerprint input to provide the described examples of biometric mobile application level authentication. For example the fingerprint unlock screen of of may be replaced with a voice unlock screen or a facial recognition unlock screen. Similarly the input of a voice passcode facial image graphical image retinal scan or other biometric may be substituted for the fingerprint input as discussed above. Regardless of the biometric used the mobile device OS verifies the authenticity of the inputted biometric to unlock the mobile device and the described examples use an indication for example via an API that the biometric has been verified as belonging to a verified user of the mobile device to unlock application access. When User has application access User may be able to access information provided by an application server such as application server associated with the mobile application .

Of course more than one mobile application may perform the same application level biometric authentication. For example User may have a banking application and a media streaming application on her mobile device and may access both applications if so configured via the previously explained application level biometric authentication. Alternatively or in addition a certain mobile application may allow the successful application level biometric authentication result for a different application to be used as a substitute for the certain mobile application authentication result. For example the banking application of Bank RP and the media streaming application may have a partnership based on the user s use of Bank RP s credit card to pay for the streaming media content. As a result a user may perform the application level biometric authentication for the Bank RP banking application and the successful authentication result may not only be used by the banking application to permit access but also by the media streaming application. The successful authentication result may be stored in the memory of the mobile device for a period of time such as an hour 1 3 minutes or the like.

Alternatively the receipt of the successful authentication may cause the launch of a number of related applications that if launched singularly would require separate application level authentication. For example an investing application that supports application level biometric authentication may need access to the user s banking application a user s secure spreadsheet as well as a separate on line investment research tool that is not part of the investing application. The successful application level biometric application authentication for the investing application may cause each of these service applications to also launch and substitute the investing application s successful authentication for their own authentication information. Of course the other applications would need to be configured to accept the investing application s successful authentication result as their own authentication result and a user would have to approve such a feature through preference settings via one of the related applications and or via the investing application.

In another example multiple users such as a husband wife parent child roommates and the like may use a single mobile device however each user may have an individual profile on the mobile device . Alternatively or in addition a single mobile device user may have multiple profiles such as a personal profile and business profile. For example User may have a mobile device that presents either a personal profile or a business profile that are both accessible via a biometric unlock function. Each profile personal and business may for example have an application configured to allow application level biometric authentication as described herein. User may use a different biometric input to the mobile device biometric unlock screen to indicate which profile the mobile device is to use at start up. For example User may use a voice print to open her business profile and use a fingerprint to open her personal profile. Or User may use a left hand index fingerprint to open her business profile and use a right hand ring finger fingerprint to open her personal profile. In yet another example User may use multiple different fingers e.g. right hand thumb and right hand index finger for authenticating herself with the authentication server for the mobile application

According to the presently described examples each mobile application that allows application level biometric authentication to generate an authentication key usable for only that particular mobile application in that specific profile. Similarly while multiple user s may be able to unlock a mobile device using a biometric input via a biometric input unlock screen when the biometric input unlock screen is generated in response to the launch of a mobile application only a user that has registered with the mobile application may access the application. This security setting by an exchange of data between the application and the mobile device OS.

The discussion of referred frequently to the functions performed by elements of a mobile device . It may be useful to consider the functional elements aspects of two exemplary mobile devices and at a high level.

For purposes of such a discussion provides a block diagram illustration of an exemplary non touch type mobile device . Although the mobile device may be a smartphone or may be incorporated into another device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or the like for discussion purposes the illustration shows the mobile device is in the form of a handset. The handset embodiment of the mobile device functions as a normal digital wireless telephone device. For that function the device includes a microphone for audio signal input and a speaker for audio signal output. The microphone and speaker connect to voice coding and decoding circuitry vocoder . For a voice telephone call for example the vocoder provides two way conversion between analog audio signals representing speech or other audio and digital samples at a compressed bit rate compatible with the digital protocol of wireless telephone network communications or voice over packet Internet Protocol communications. If voice print is used for the biometric authentication the microphone and vocoder may also provide the path for audio input for such authentication.

For digital wireless communications the handset also includes at least one digital transceiver XCVR . Today the handset would be configured for digital wireless communications using one or more of the common network technology types. The concepts discussed here encompass embodiments of the mobile device utilizing any digital transceivers that conform to current or future developed digital wireless communication standards. The mobile device may also be capable of analog operation via a legacy network technology.

The transceiver provides two way wireless communication of information such as vocoded speech samples and or digital information for data communications including for authentication in accordance with the technology of the network . The transceiver also sends and receives a variety of signaling messages in support of the various voice and data services provided via the mobile device and the communication network. Each transceiver connects through RF send and receive amplifiers not separately shown to an antenna . The transceiver may also support various types of mobile messaging services such as short message service SMS enhanced messaging service EMS and or multimedia messaging service MMS .

The mobile device includes a display for displaying messages menus or the like call related information dialed by the user calling party numbers etc. including the described fingerprint unlock screen or the display associated with the register fingerprint option the input user credentials prompt device login prompt installed application menu menu application welcome screen and application error screen for the mobile application biometric authentication service. A keypad enables dialing digits for voice and or data calls as well as generating selection inputs for example as may be keyed in by the user based on a displayed menu or as a cursor control and selection of a highlighted item on a displayed screen. The display and keypad are the physical elements providing a textual or graphical user interface. Various combinations of the keypad display microphone and speaker may be used as the physical input output elements of the graphical user interface GUI for multimedia e.g. audio and or video communications including communications interactions related to biometric authentication. Of course other user interface elements may be used such as a trackball as in some types of PDAs or smart phones.

In addition to normal telephone and data communication related input output including message input and message display functions the user interface elements also may be used for display of menus and other information to the user and user input of selections including any needed during user selection of a menu option. For example if used as a selection device the user interface elements allow a user to select the mobile application from installed apps menu and to select the fingerprint login option from menu .

A microprocessor serves as a programmable controller for the mobile device in that it controls all operations of the mobile device in accord with programming that it executes for all normal operations and for operations involved in the mobile application biometric authentication service under consideration here. In a present example the mobile device includes flash type program memory for storage of various software or firmware program routines such as device OS including a device level biometric unlocking routine and verification data e.g. data related to the recorded voice print or fingerprint scan for use by the unlocking routine a boot routine device driver software an operating system call processing software and vocoder control software and various applications or routines such as those supporting application level biometric authentication client browser software and short message service software. The memory also stores mobile configuration settings such as the MDN the IMEID and or mobile identification number MIN etc. The mobile device may also include a non volatile random access memory RAM for a working data processing memory. Of course other storage devices or configurations may be added to or substituted for those in the example. The memories also store various data such as telephone numbers and server addresses downloaded data such as multimedia content and various data input by the user. Programming stored in the flash type program memory sometimes referred to as firmware is loaded into and executed by the microprocessor .

As outlined above the mobile device includes a processor and programming such as mobile application s stored in the flash memory configures the processor so that the mobile device is capable of performing various desired functions including in this case the functions involved in the technique for providing mobile application biometric authentication.

The mobile device includes one or more elements for biometric input devices. Although other biometric input devices may be included e.g. camera or other device elements e.g. microphones be used the example of includes a fingerprint sensor . The fingerprint sensor is configured to scan a fingerprint when a user moves or places a finger in proximity to the sensor and provide the result to the microprocessor . Other biometric inputs such as a voice input may be input into the microphone which is encoded via vocoder and provided to the microprocessor . For example the fingerprint sensor may be used to input a fingerprint when the user is presented with the fingerprint unlock screen or as described above.

The mobile device also includes secure data storage. Although a part of memory may be designated and secured for this purpose the example utilizes a secure element SE that in one example is separate chip that includes a secure processor a tamperproof storage and a memory and is configured to communicate with applications executing on the processor . The secure memory of the SE may contains applications that run inside the secure processor and may provide secure storage for data used by various applications such as mobile application or secure authentication keys e.g. hash keys and secure identifiers such as the ICCID of the mobile device

For example the SE secure memory may include various user account information such as account number user identification a personal identification number PIN or the like for user verification and possibly account balance and or transaction record information. In addition the SE secure memory may store data for various mobile applications such as banking investment corporate and media streaming applications that require a higher level of security due to the nature of the data that may be exposed due to unauthorized access. The SE may be used to decode credentials of devices. In various examples the secure element may be part a UICC or a separate secure element like a secure digital SD memory card used for storing and accessing applications and data such as secure authentication keys such as a hash key provided by an authentication server in a secure manner. The UICC may be a SIM card.

The logic implemented by the processor of the mobile device configures the processor to control various functions as implemented by the mobile device . The logic for a processor may be implemented in a variety of ways but in our example the processor logic is implemented by programming for execution by the processor . Regular operations of the device are controlled by operation of the processor . Security functions are controlled by operation of the processor of the SE in this example. Implementation of many device functions that rely on security including the mobile application biometric authentication therefore for involves interaction between the processor and the processor of the SE e.g. to request and obtain the secure authentication key from storage in the SE .

For purposes of such a discussion provides a block diagram illustration of an exemplary touch screen type mobile device having a touch screen display for displaying content and receiving user input as or as part of the user interface. The example in represents a smartphone. Although the examples discussed thus far utilize data communications a typical phone type device such as the smart phone example also supports voice communications. Hence in the example shown in the mobile device includes a microphone for audio signal input and a speaker for audio signal output. The microphone and speaker are communicatively coupled to a voice or audio encoder decoder vocoder . For a voice telephone call for example the vocoder provides two way conversion between analog audio signals representing speech or other audio and digital samples at a compressed bit rate compatible with the digital protocol of wireless telephone network communications or voice over packet e.g. Internet Protocol communications. The vocoder speaker and microphone may also be used as elements of the user interface during other operations of the device including some biometric inputs for authentication communications. Increasingly tablets and other types of mobile devices include similar elements to support audio and visual communication.

Also as shown in the mobile device includes at least one digital transceiver XCVR for digital wireless communications via a wide area wireless mobile communication network although the mobile device may include additional digital or analog transceivers not shown . The transceiver conforms to one or more of the various digital wireless communication standards utilized by modern mobile networks. Examples of such transceivers include but are not limited to transceivers configured to operate in accordance with Code Division Multiple Access CDMA and 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP network technologies including for example and without limitation 3GPP type 2 or 3GPP2 and 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE at times referred to as 4G. For example transceiver provides two way wireless communication of information supporting communication in one or both directions of digitized audio signals still image and or video signals web page information for display as well as web related inputs and various types of mobile message communications to from the mobile device

Several of these types of communications through the transceiver and a network as discussed later will relate to provisioning of the SE by a remote server. On line transaction related communications involving information obtained from the NFC enabled device for example often utilize Internet Protocol IP packet data transport utilizing the digital wireless transceiver XCVR and over the air communications to and from base devices of the serving mobile network. Such communications may include specific account related data and security information from the mobile device .

In one example the transceiver also sends and receives a variety of signaling messages in support of various voice and data services provided by a network of a wireless service provider to a user of mobile device via the mobile communication network. Transceiver connects through radio frequency RF send and receive amplifiers not separately shown to an antenna . Many modern mobile devices also support wireless local area network communications over Wi Fi instead of or in addition to data communications using the wide area mobile communication network. Hence in the example of for packet data communications the exemplary mobile device may also include a Wi Fi transceiver and associated antenna . The transceiver for example may provide two way data transport for wireless communication with a wireless access point in a residence or enterprise that the user frequents or with any available hotspot offered in a public venue. Although communicating through a different network or networks the transceiver supports various types of data communications similar to the packet data communications supported via the mobile network transceiver including communications related to the link application link companion applet and or media player application functions.

The mobile device further includes a processor which serves as a programmable controller for mobile device by configuring mobile device to perform various operations for example in accordance with instructions or programming executable by processor . For example such operations may include various general operations of the mobile device as well as operations related to receiving biometric inputs and presenting biometric inputs on the use of mobile application biometric authentication as described herein. A flash memory is used to store for example programming e.g. computer applications or instructions and various software or firmware program routines such as device OS including a device level biometric unlocking routine and verification data e.g. data related to the recorded voice print or fingerprint scan for use by the unlocking routine a boot routine device driver software an operating system call processing software and vocoder control software and various applications or routines such as those supporting application level biometric authentication client browser software and short message service software for execution by the processor . For example the described mobile application s may be stored in the flash memory and may be executed by the processor . The memory also stores mobile configuration settings such as the MDN IMEID Flash memory may also be used to store mobile configuration settings for different mobile applications or services executable at mobile device using processor . Mobile device may also include a non volatile random access memory RAM for a working data processing memory. Depending on the type of device the mobile device stores and runs an OS through which specific applications may be run on the device. Examples of OS include Android Apple iOS e.g. iPhone or iPad devices Windows Mobile RIM BlackBerry operating system or the like. The respective OS provide APIs that are accessible to programming executed by the processor .

Of course other storage devices or configurations may be added to or substituted for those in the example. Such other storage devices may be implemented using any type of storage medium having computer or processor readable instructions or programming stored therein and may include for example any or all of the tangible memory of the computers processors or the like or associated modules. The instructions or programming may be used to implement the mobile application and the processes for providing the mobile application biometric authentication service as described herein. Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code or process instructions and or associated data that is stored on or embodied in a type of machine or processor readable medium.

A mobile device may include a variety of different types of user interface elements. For discussion purposes in the smart phone example shown in the user interface elements of mobile device include a touch screen display also referred to herein as touch screen or display . For output purposes the touch screen includes a display screen such as a liquid crystal display LCD or the like. For input purposes touch screen display includes a plurality of touch sensors . Other interface elements may include a keypad including one or more keys . For example the keypad may be implemented in hardware as a T9 or QWERTY keyboard of mobile device and keys may correspond to the physical keys of such a keyboard. Alternatively keys and keyboard of mobile device may be implemented as soft keys of a virtual keyboard graphically represented in an appropriate arrangement via touch screen display . The soft keys presented on the touch screen display may allow the user of mobile device to invoke the same user interface functions as with the physical hardware keys. In some implementations the microphone and speaker may be used as additional user interface elements for audio input and output including with respect to some functions related to the transaction processing and communication as described herein. The different user interface elements may be used to navigate through the link application and or media player application to select content for presentation purchase content and to perform functions related to the licensed content.

For output touch screen display is used to present information e.g. text video graphics or other visible digital media content to the user of mobile device . Processor controls visible display output on the LCD or other display element of the touch screen display via a display driver to present the various visible outputs to the device user.

In general touch screen display and touch sensors and one or more keys if included are used to provide the textual and graphical user interface for the mobile device . In an example touch screen display provides viewable content to the user at mobile device . Touch screen display also enables the user to interact directly with the viewable content provided in the content display area typically by touching the surface of the screen with a finger or an implement such as a stylus.

As shown in the mobile device also includes a sense circuit coupled to touch biometric sensors for detecting the occurrence and relative location position of each touch with respect to a content display area of touch screen display . The touch biometric sensor may be configured to scan a fingerprint placed on the touchscreen display. The touch biometric sensor may for example comprise a camera or some other imaging device. In this example the sense circuit may be configured to obtain fingerprint information e.g. location of ridges and valleys and the like from the scan of the fingerprint. In turn the sense circuit provides the obtained fingerprint information to processor which performs according to instructions from the mobile device operating system a fingerprint recognition algorithm using the provided fingerprint information.

In addition the sense circuit is configured to provide processor with touch position information based on user input received via touch sensors e.g. a user interface element . In some implementations processor is configured to correlate the touch position information to specific content being displayed within the content display area on touch screen display . The touch position information captured by sense circuit and provided to processor may include but is not limited to coordinates identifying the location of each detected touch with respect to the display area of touch screen display and a timestamp corresponding to each detected touch position.

Similar biometric recognition can be executed using voice inputs via microphone and received from vocoder . For example camera lens system may be used to provide images of objects for graphical recognition techniques as well as provide facial and retinal images for facial and retinal recognition to the processor .

The user interface capabilities of the mobile device provide output to and receive input from the user of the mobile device for any of the various functions operations or applications of the device. For example programming discussed more later that configures the mobile device to obtain and act on information presented on the touchscreen display related to obtaining and presenting licensed content.

There is a variety of ways that a mobile device may be configured to obtain information with respect to current location of the device. In our example the mobile device includes a global positioning satellite GPS receiver and associated antenna .

In order to run secure applications such as the link companion applet access to content routing to an URL site such as a content server or license server and the like there is a Secure Element SE . In one example the SE is separate chip that includes a secure processor a tamperproof storage and a memory and is configured to communicate with applications executing on the processor . The memory of the SE contains applications e.g. applets that run inside the secure processor and provide mobile application level biometric authentication keys such as a hash key computed by the authentication server stored in the memory to a mobile application such as mobile application or mobile device OS that has requested authentication of a user as a valid user of the mobile application .

The SE may include various account information such as account number user identification a personal identification number PIN or the like for user verification and possibly account balance and or transaction record information. The SE may be used to decode credentials of devices. In various examples the secure element may be part a UICC or a separate secure element like a secure digital SD memory card used for storing and accessing applications and data such as mobile device application level biometric authentication keys in a secure manner.

The logic implemented by the processor of the mobile device configures the processor to control various functions as implemented by the mobile device . The logic for a processor may be implemented in a variety of ways but in our example the processor logic is implemented by programming for execution by the processor . Regular operations of the device are controlled by operation of the processor . Security functions are controlled by operation of the processor of the SE in this example. Implementation of many device functions that rely on security including the mobile application biometric authentication therefore for involves interaction between the processor and the processor of the SE e.g. to request and obtain the secure authentication key from storage in the SE .

As shown by the above discussion functions relating to the mobile application biometric authentication service via a graphical user interface of a mobile device may be implemented on computers connected for data communication via the components of a packet data network operating as an authentication server as shown in . Although special purpose devices may be used such devices also may be implemented using one or more hardware platforms intended to represent a general class of data processing device commonly used to run server programming so as to implement the authentication functions discussed above albeit with an appropriate network connection for data communication.

As known in the data processing and communications arts a general purpose computer typically comprises a central processor or other processing device an internal communication bus various types of memory or storage media RAM ROM EEPROM cache memory disk drives etc. for code and data storage and one or more network interface cards or ports for communication purposes. The software functionalities involve programming including executable code as well as associated stored data e.g. files used for the mobile application biometric authentication service. The software code is executable by the general purpose computer that functions as the authentication server. In operation the code is stored within the general purpose computer platform. At other times however the software may be stored at other locations and or transported for loading into the appropriate general purpose computer system. Execution of such code by a processor of the computer platform enables the platform to implement the methodology for a mobile application biometric authentication service in essentially the manner performed in the implementations discussed and illustrated herein.

A server for example includes a data communication interface for packet data communication. The server also includes a central processing unit CPU in the form of one or more processors for executing program instructions. The server platform typically includes an internal communication bus program storage and data storage for various data files to be processed and or communicated by the server although the server often receives programming and data via network communications. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such servers are conventional in nature. Of course the server functions may be implemented in a distributed fashion on a number of similar platforms to distribute the processing load. For example the server may have access to one or more mass storage devices for storing user data and the various executable programs such as registration and authentication programs discussed with reference to and illustrated in respectively. Other aspects of the mobile application biometric authentication for application access may be implemented by an OS and or applications or other programming for execution by processors of mobile devices like the devices of .

Hence aspects of the methods of mobile application biometric authentication service outlined above may be embodied in programming. Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Storage type media include any or all of the tangible memory of the computers processors or the like or associated modules thereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide non transitory storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such communications for example may enable loading of the software from one computer or processor into another for example from a management server or host computer of the entity providing the mobile application that is has access to data maintained by a server associated with the entity and or loading programming over the network into mobile devices. Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein unless restricted to non transitory tangible storage media terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution.

Hence a machine readable medium may take many forms including but not limited to a tangible storage medium a carrier wave medium or physical transmission medium. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s or the like such as may be used to implement the mobile application biometric authentication service etc. shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as main memory of such a computer platform. Tangible transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier wave transmission media can take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals or acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD or DVD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical storage medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave transporting data or instructions cables or links transporting such a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution.

Thus the mobile application does not itself verify the biometric input instead the mobile application requests that the OS take measures to verify the biometric input and receives only an indication locally from the OS that the fingerprint has been verified. The mobile application then passes on non biometric based authentication information through the network to a server associated with the application to provide service to the mobile device. This permits the mobile application to take advantage of the biometric authentication functionality of the OS rather than having to have biometric authentication functionality built in.

The described examples can also be used as a remote authentication device for non biometric enabled devices. In yet another example a mobile device equipped with a fingerprint scanner or other biometric input mechanism e.g. retinal scanner voice print recognizer or the like may be configured to allow a user attempting to access an application on a device other than the mobile device i.e. a laptop desktop or kiosk to authenticate themselves as a valid user via an example of the mobile application . In the example a user such as User is attempting to log into a computer application via a web page presented on a computer e.g. laptop tablet personal computer workstation kiosk or the like that is not equipped with a biometric input device. In response to a prompt e.g. the website welcome page from the computer application presented on a display device of the computer User enters a mobile device identifier such as the Mobile Directory Number MDN into a user interface for the application. The mobile device identifier is that of a mobile device equipped with a fingerprint scanner. In response the application generates a login request. The login request is sent to a remote server such as authentication server for authentication.

Upon receipt of the login request from the computer application the remote server performs a validation routine based on the MDN. In response to a successful validation of the MDN the remote server using the MDN may push a message to a mobile device having the MDN. The message may indicate to the mobile device that it has been selected for fingerprint login based on the MDN in the login request sent into the application or website. In response to the message a mobile application such as mobile application may launch on the mobile device to facilitate the input of the fingerprint data. The mobile application on the mobile device causes the mobile device to lock and present the user with a fingerprint unlock screen.

In response User scans his finger. In response to a successful fingerprint verification of User as an authorized user a request is sent back to the remote server requesting that remote server allow User to log into the application on device non fingerprint enabled. If the fingerprint verification fails the mobile device may react in the manner described above with respect to or may simply cancel the remote log in attempt.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

The scope of protection is limited solely by the claims that now follow. That scope is intended and should be interpreted to be as broad as is consistent with the ordinary meaning of the language that is used in the claims when interpreted in light of this specification and the prosecution history that follows and to encompass all structural and functional equivalents. Notwithstanding none of the claims are intended to embrace subject matter that fails to satisfy the requirement of Sections 101 102 or 103 of the Patent Act nor should they be interpreted in such a way. Any unintended embracement of such subject matter is hereby disclaimed.

Except as stated immediately above nothing that has been stated or illustrated is intended or should be interpreted to cause a dedication of any component step feature object benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether it is or is not recited in the claims.

It will be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions with respect to their corresponding respective areas of inquiry and study except where specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein. Relational terms such as first and second and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by a or an does not without further constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

