---

title: Visible light communication system, communication terminal and server
abstract: A communication module of a communication terminal is configured not to output to a control module, service information provided from a second server whose server ID is not registered in a first server. The communication module is configured to receive an authentication code from the first server, and to transmit ID information and terminal identification information to the second server. When the terminal identification information received from the communication module matches the terminal identification information received from the first server, the second server is configured to reply the authentication code and the service information to the communication module. When the authentication code received from the first server matches the authentication code received from the second server, the communication module is configured to output the service information to the control module.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09167429&OS=09167429&RS=09167429
owner: Panasonic Intellectual Property Management Co., Ltd.
number: 09167429
owner_city: Osaka
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140227
---
The present invention relates generally to visible light communication systems communication terminals and servers and more particularly to a visible light communication system using visible light as a communication medium a communication terminal and a server.

Recently a visible light communication system a visible light ID system is proposed which is configured to modulate visible light illumination light emitted from a lighting apparatus a transmitter to transmit unique ID information or the like to the lighting fixture and to demodulate the ID information with a receiver receiving the visible light. Examples of a utilization form of the visible light communication system include course guidance navigation in a facility introduction of exhibits in a gallery and a museum and the like referring Japanese unexamined patent application publication No. 2010 117301 hereinafter referred to as documents 1 and Japanese unexamined patent application publication No. 2011 244141 hereinafter referred to as document 2 .

In the conventional examples described in the documents 1 and 2 the receiver holds stores the information about the navigation or the introduction of the exhibits. On the other hand a system is also proposed in which a server holds stores the information about the navigation or the introduction of the exhibits and a receiver receives ID information by visible light communication and transmits the ID information to the server by wireless communication and the server replies the information corresponding to the ID information to the receiver.

By the way as the above mentioned utilization form various information is made to correspond to multiple pieces of ID information respectively and thereby it is possible to provide various services. Here in the above mentioned visible light communication system it is supposed that a service provider providing the various services to a user who possesses the receiver is different from a manager managing the transmitter the lighting fixture .

The user receives the ID information from the manager by the visible light communication and notifies the service provider of the ID information by wireless communication and then receives information service information corresponding to the ID information from the service provider. Therefore the user can utilize the various services. In this case the user will pay money to the service provider for the provided service and the service provider will pay money to the manager for use of the ID information.

However in the above mentioned conventional example the manager does not participate in the notice of the ID information from the user to the service provider and the reply of the service information from the service provider to the user. Therefore there is a fear that the service provider not performing an agreement a contract to the manager about the use of the ID information provides the service without permission and the service provider will not pay money to the manager for use of the ID information.

The present invention has achieved in view of the above problem and it is an object thereof to prevent unauthorized use of ID information by a third person.

A visible light communication system according to one aspect of the present invention includes a visible light communication device a communication terminal a first server and at least one second server. The visible light communication device is configured to transmit at least one piece of unique ID information by visible light communication. The communication terminal is assigned with unique terminal identification information and is configured to receive the ID information by the visible light communication. The first server is configured to memorize the terminal identification information assigned to the communication terminal and to perform wireless communication through a medium of an electric wave with the communication terminal. The second server is assigned with unique server identification information and is configured to memorize service information corresponding to the ID information and to perform wireless communication through a medium of an electric wave with the communication terminal. The communication terminal includes a communication module and a control module. The communication module is configured to perform the visible light communication and the wireless communication. The control module is configured to memorize the server identification information and to provide a service to a user. The service corresponds to the service information. The first server is configured to memorize the server identification information assigned to the second server. When the terminal identification information and the server identification information that are received from the communication terminal match the terminal identification information and the server identification information that are memorized in the first server respectively the first server is configured to authenticate the communication terminal and the second server. After the communication terminal is authenticated by the first server through the terminal identification information the communication module is configured to transmit the ID information received from the visible light communication device the server identification information received from the control module and personal information included in the communication terminal to the first server by the wireless communication. The first server is configured to memorize the personal information. When the ID information the server identification information and the personal information that are received from the communication module by the wireless communication match the ID information the server identification information and the personal information that are memorized in the first server respectively the first server is configured to generate an authentication code. The first server is configured to transmit the generated authentication code and the terminal identification information to the communication module and the second server by the wireless communication. The communication module is configured to receive the authentication code transmitted by the first server and then to transmit the ID information and the terminal identification information to the second server by the wireless communication. When the terminal identification information received from the communication module matches the terminal identification information received from the first server the second server is configured to reply the authentication code and the service information to the communication module. When the authentication code received from the first server matches the authentication code received from the second server the communication module is configured to output the service information received from the second server to the control module.

Preferably in the visible light communication system the personal information is the terminal identification information assigned to the communication terminal.

Preferably in the visible light communication system the personal information is attribute information of the user.

Preferably in the visible light communication system the first server is configured to generate the authentication code attached with an expiration date and the communication module and the second server are configured to cancel the authentication code in which the expiration date passed.

Preferably in the visible light communication system the at least one piece of ID information includes multiple pieces of ID information and the first server is configured to generate the authentication code for each of the multiple pieces of ID information.

Preferably in the visible light communication system the at least one second server includes a plurality of second servers and the first server is configured to memorize multiple pieces of server identification information respectively assigned to the plurality of second servers and to generate the authentication code for each of the multiple pieces of server identification information.

Preferably in the visible light communication system the at least one piece of ID information includes multiple pieces of ID information and the second server is configured to divide the multiple pieces of ID information into a plurality of groups having two or more pieces of ID information that are mutually related and to store the server identification information for each of the plurality of groups.

Preferably in the visible light communication system the first server is configured to memorize multiple pieces of personal information as the personal information and to generate the authentication code for each of the multiple pieces of personal information.

Preferably in the visible light communication system the first server is configured to include database including authentication information that is generated by combining the ID information the server identification information and the personal information.

A communication terminal according to another aspect of the present invention is assigned with unique terminal identification information is capable of receiving ID information unique to a visible light communication device from the visible light communication device by visible light communication and performs wireless communication through a medium of an electric wave with a first server and a second server. The communication terminal includes a communication module and a control module. The communication module is configured to perform the visible light communication and the wireless communication. The control module is configured to memorize server identification information unique to the second server and to provide a service to a user. The service corresponds to the service information provided by the second server. The communication module is configured to transmit the terminal identification information and the server identification information to the first server and then to transmit the ID information received from the visible light communication device the server identification information received from the control module and personal information included in the communication terminal to the first server by the wireless communication after the communication terminal is authenticated by the first server through the terminal identification information. The communication module is configured to receive an authentication code transmitted by the first server and then to transmit the ID information and the terminal identification information to the second server by the wireless communication. The communication module is configured to output the service information received from the second server to the control module when the authentication code received from the first server matches the authentication code received from the second server.

A server according to yet another aspect of the present invention is capable of performing wireless communication through a medium of an electric wave with a communication terminal and another server and memorizes terminal identification information assigned to the communication terminal server identification information assigned to the other server personal information included in the communication terminal and ID information unique to a visible light communication device. The server is configured to authenticate the communication terminal and the other server when the terminal identification information and the server identification information that are received from the communication terminal match the memorized terminal identification information and server identification information respectively. The server is configured to generate an authentication code when the ID information unique to the visible light communication device the server identification information and the personal information that are received from the communication terminal by the wireless communication match the memorized ID information server identification information and personal information respectively and to transmit the generated authentication code and the terminal identification information to the communication terminal and the other server by the wireless communication.

The visible light communication system according to the aspect of the present invention is configured so that the communication module of the communication terminal does not output to the control module the service information provided by the second server whose server identification information is not registered in the first server. Therefore in the visible light communication system according to the aspect of the present invention it is possible to prevent unauthorized use of the ID information by a third person who is not permitted from the manager managing the visible light communication device and the first server.

Hereinafter a visible light communication system according to an embodiment of the present invention is described in detail referring to drawings.

As shown in the visible light communication system according to the embodiment includes a visible light communication device a communication terminal a first server and a second server .

The visible light communication device according to the embodiment is a lighting apparatus a down light hung from a ceiling and is configured to modulate visible light illumination light emitted from a lighting source for example a light emitting diode to transmit unique ID information mentioned later constantly. That is the visible light communication device is configured to transmit the unique ID information by visible light communication. shows only one visible light communication device but in actual applications a large number of visible light communication devices may be arranged along a passage or the like.

The communication terminal includes a portable computer system that has functions for performing visible light communication and wireless communication through a medium of an electric wave and is formed into such dimensions and a shape that a person can hold it by his or her hand. The communication terminal is configured to receive ID information by the visible light communication. As shown in the communication terminal includes a CPU Central Processing Unit a memory a light receiving element a demodulating circuit an antenna a wireless communication circuit a display device a driver circuit an operation input device and an operation input interface I F . The communication terminal is assigned with unique terminal identification information so that the communication terminal is able to be distinguished from other communication terminals. The terminal identification information is stored in the memory .

The light receiving element receives the visible light emitted from the visible light communication device and converts the visible light into an electric signal. The light receiving element is for example a photodiode or a phototransistor. The demodulating circuit is configured to demodulate ID information from the electric signal which is output by the light receiving element and then output the ID information to the CPU . The wireless communication circuit is configured to demodulate a desired wireless communication frame from an electric wave a received signal which is received with the antenna and then output the wireless communication frame to the CPU . Besides the wireless communication circuit is configured to transmit from the antenna a transmitting signal generated by modulating the wireless communication frame output from the CPU . Because the demodulating circuit and the wireless communication circuit are capable of being provided by using well known technology conventionally an illustration and a description of a detailed circuit construction are omitted.

The display device includes for example a liquid crystal display and an organic electroluminescence display. The driver circuit is configured to control the display device in response to a control command given by the CPU and cause the display device to display a character a map an image or the like. Because the display device and the driver circuit are capable of being provided by using well known technology conventionally an illustration and a description of a detailed circuit construction are omitted.

The operation input device includes for example a push button switch a touch panel or the like. The operation input I F is configured to represent an operational state of the operation input device by operation input data and then output the operation input data to the CPU . Because the operation input device and the operation input I F are capable of being provided by using well known technology conventionally an illustration and a description of a detailed circuit construction are omitted.

As shown in the communication terminal is formed into a flat rectangular box shape and a screen of the display device is exposed on a plane of a front side of the communication terminal and the light receiving element is provided at a tip of the communication terminal . The user may hold the communication terminal as to turn the light receiving element towards the visible light communication device while turning the screen of the display device towards himself or herself.

As shown in the CPU is mounted with a well known operating system hereinafter referred to as an OS for clients conventionally. The OS a Kernel in particular generates processes to execute application software . The generation of the processes includes an allocation of hardware resources such as a memory space loading of a binary code of the software to the memory and the start of executing the application software . In addition the OS includes an API an application programming interface and an ABI an application binary interface that are interfaces to operate the application software . The API is an interface for programming and constitutes a rule when a program software is made. The ABI is an interface when compiled software invokes a function of the OS and constitutes a rule when the processes are operated.

The first server includes a general purpose computing system an operating system for servers and software for servers. In addition the first server stores as a database unique terminal identification information terminal ID assigned to the communication terminal unique server identification information server ID assigned to the second server and ID information visible light ID transmitted from the visible light communication device and manages them. Furthermore the first server has a function to perform wireless communication through a medium of an electric wave with the communication terminal and a function to perform data communication either wire communication or wireless communication may be used with the second server .

The second server includes a general purpose computing system an operating system for servers a server OS and software for servers like the first server . The second server is assigned with unique server identification information so that the second server is able to be distinguished from the other server. The second server memorizes the service information corresponding to the visible light ID and the server identification information of the second server . In addition the second server has a function to perform wireless communication through a medium of an electric wave with the communication terminal and a function to perform data communication either wire communication or wireless communication may be used with the first server . By well known server virtualization technology conventionally one computing system may be divided into a plurality of virtual computing systems to realize the first server and the second server with each computing system.

Next an operation of the visible light communication system according to the embodiment is described referring to . The communication terminal shown in includes a control module and a communication module . The control module memorizes the server ID of the second server and provides a service to the user by using the service information. The communication module performs the visible light communication and the wireless communication. The control module is realized by the application software executed by the OS . In addition the communication module may be realized by hardware or software. If the communication module is realized by software the communication module is realized by the function API with which the OS controls the device the demodulating circuit for the visible light communication and the device the wireless communication circuit for the wireless communication.

At first when the application software is activated the control module executes a visible light receiving initialization process. The control module outputs the terminal ID and the server ID to the communication module in the visible light receiving initialization process X1 . When receiving the terminal ID and the server ID the communication module executes a visible light receiving initialization process. The communication module stores the terminal ID and the server ID that are received from the control module as internal variables in the visible light receiving initialization process and transmits the terminal ID and the server ID to the first server with the wireless communication circuit X2 .

When the terminal ID and the server ID that are received from the communication terminal match the terminal ID and the server ID that are registered in the database respectively the first server determines that authentication is successful. That is the first server authenticates the communication terminal and the second server . On the other hand when at least any one of the terminal ID and the server ID that are received from the communication terminal does not match a corresponding one of the terminal ID and the server ID that are registered in the database the first server determines that authentication is unsuccessful. For example when the server ID received from the communication terminal does not match the server ID registered in the database although the terminal ID received from the communication terminal matches the terminal ID registered in the database respectively the first server determines that the authentication is unsuccessful. The first server replies a result of the authentication an authentication result a determined result to the communication terminal by the wireless communication X3 . The result is whether the authentication is successful or unsuccessful.

The communication module outputs the result received from the first server to the control module in the visible light receiving initialization process X4 and then completes the visible light receiving initialization process. When the result received from the communication module is that the authentication is unsuccessful the control module completes the processes with the application software and when the result received from the communication module is that the authentication is successful the control module does not complete the processes with the application software in the visible light receiving initialization process.

The ID information the visible light ID transmitted by the visible light communication device is received with the light receiving element X5 and then is demodulated with the demodulating circuit to be output to the communication module . When receiving the visible light ID from the demodulating circuit the communication module executes a visible light receiving interrupt process. The communication module transmits the terminal ID the server ID and the visible light ID to the first server with the wireless communication circuit in the visible light receiving interrupt process X6 . That is after the communication terminal is authenticated by the first server through the terminal ID the communication module transmits the visible light ID received from the visible light communication device the server ID received from the control module and personal information assigned to a side of the communication terminal to the first server by the wireless communication. The personal information is the terminal ID assigned to the communication terminal .

When the terminal ID the server ID and the visible light ID that are received from the communication terminal match the terminal ID the server ID and the visible light ID that are registered in the database respectively the first server determines that the authentication is successful. On the other hand when at least any one of the terminal ID the server ID and the visible light ID that are received from the communication terminal does not match a corresponding one of the terminal ID the server ID and the visible light ID that are registered in the database the first server determines that the authentication is unsuccessful. For example when the server ID received from the communication terminal does not match the server ID registered in the database although the terminal ID and the visible light ID that are received from the communication terminal match the terminal ID and the visible light ID that are registered in the database respectively the first server determines that the authentication is unsuccessful. When determining that the authentication is successful the first server generates an authentication code and then transmits the authentication code to the communication terminal X7 . In addition the first server transmits the generated authentication code and the terminal ID and the visible light ID of the communication terminal determined that the authentication is successful to the second server X8 . That is when the visible light ID the server ID and the terminal ID that are received from the communication module by the wireless communication match the visible light ID the server ID and the terminal ID that are memorized in the first server respectively the first server generates the authentication code. Then the first server transmits the generated authentication code and the terminal ID to the communication module and the second server by the wireless communication. On the other hand when determining that the authentication is unsuccessful the first server replies an error message to the communication terminal .

The communication module stores the authentication code received from the first server as endogenous variable in the visible light receiving interrupt process and then completes the visible light receiving interrupt process. When receiving the error message from the first server the communication module outputs the result that the authentication is unsuccessful to the control module in the visible light receiving interrupt process and the control module completes the processes with the application software .

After completing the visible light receiving interrupt process the communication module executes a visible light ID solution process. The communication module transmits the terminal ID and the visible light ID to the second server with the wireless communication circuit in the visible light ID solution process X9 . That is after receiving the authentication code transmitted from the first server the communication module transmits the visible light ID and the terminal ID to the second server by the wireless communication.

The second server determines whether or not the terminal ID and the visible light ID that are received from the communication terminal are authenticated by the first server that is whether or not the terminal ID and the visible light ID that are received from the communication terminal match the terminal ID and the visible light ID that are received from the first server . In other words the second server determines whether or not the terminal ID and the visible light ID are authenticated by the first server for an inquiry from the communication terminal . When the terminal ID and the visible light ID are authenticated by the first server the second server transmits service information corresponding to the visible light ID and the authentication code received from the first server to the communication terminal X10 . That is when the terminal ID and the visible light ID that are received from the communication module match the terminal ID and the visible light ID that are received from the first server respectively the second server replies the authentication code and the service information to the communication module . On the other hand when the terminal ID and the visible light ID are not authenticated by the first server the second server replies the error message to the communication terminal .

The communication module determines in the visible light ID solution process whether or not the authentication code received from the second server matches the authentication code stored as the endogenous variable. When two authentication codes match each other the communication module outputs the service information received from the second server to the control module X11 in the visible light ID solution process and then completes the visible light ID solution process. That is when the authentication code received from the first server matches the authentication code received from the second server the communication module outputs the service information received from the second server to the control module . On the other hand when the two authentication codes do not match each other the communication module cancels the service information received from the second server in the visible light ID solution process and then completes the visible light ID solution process.

When receiving the service information from the communication module the control module executes a service providing process. The control module provides the service to the user. The service corresponds to the service information received from the communication module in the service providing process. When for example the service information is positional information and map information the control module generates an image in which a position a current position of the user provided from the positional information is plotted on a map provided from the map information in the service providing process. The control module outputs the generated image to the driver circuit and causes the driver circuit to drive the display device to display the image the map and the current position on the screen of the display device in the service providing process. Therefore the user holding the communication terminal can know the current position of the user oneself by watching the map displayed on the screen of the display device .

The control module waits for receiving the service information from the communication module till the control module receives the operation input of completing the processes with the application software from the operation input I F in the service providing process. Then whenever receiving the service information from the communication module the control module provides the service to the user by using the service information received from the communication module in the service providing process.

On the other hand while the application software is executed the communication module executes the visible light receiving interrupt process whenever receiving the visible light ID from the demodulating circuit . The operations of the communication module the control module the first server and the second server after the execution of the visible light receiving interrupt processes are similar to those of the steps X5 to X11 and therefore the descriptions are omitted.

When receiving the operation input to complete the processes with the application software from the operation input I F the control module completes the service providing process and then executes a visible light receiving end process. The control module notifies the communication module of the end of processes with the application software in the visible light receiving end process X12 . Then the control module completes the processes with the application software .

When receiving the end notice from the control module the communication module executes the visible light receiving end process. The communication module erases and initializes all the internal variables including the authentication code in the visible light receiving end process and then completes the visible light receiving end process.

As mentioned above in the above mentioned embodiment the communication module of the communication terminal is configured not to output to the control module the service information provided from the second server whose server ID is not registered in the first server . Therefore it is possible to prevent that a third person who is not permitted by the manager managing the visible light communication device and the first server uses illegally the ID information of the visible light communication device .

Here preferably the authentication code is constituted to a content that is hard to be estimated from the terminal ID the visible light ID and the server ID such as arbitrary random progression.

In addition the first server may be configured to generate the authentication code attached with an expiration date and the communication module and the second server may be configured to cancel the authentication code in which the expiration date passed. That is attaching the expiration date can reduce a risk that the third person acquires the authentication code illegally. The expiration date may not be generated by the first server . For example a predetermined expiration date may be set so that the authentication code is canceled if the expiration date passes.

In addition instead of generating the authentication code for each piece of ID information visible light ID as above mentioned the first server may generate the authentication code for each piece of server identification information server ID or terminal identification information terminal ID . That is a plurality of second servers are provided and the first server may be configured to memorize multiple pieces of server identification information assigned to the plurality of second servers respectively and to generate the authentication code for each piece of server identification information. The first server may be configured to memorize the multiple pieces of identification information as the terminal identification information and to generate the authentication code for each piece of terminal identification information.

For example when the first server generates the authentication code for each piece of the server ID as shown in the processes included in the visible light receiving interrupt process of the communication module is different from those in a case where the first server generates the authentication code for each piece of the ID information. That is the communication module determines with the internal variable whether or not the server ID of the second server is authenticated by the first server in the visible light receiving interrupt process. When the server ID is authenticated the communication module completes the visible light receiving interrupt process and then executes the visible light ID solution process. On the other hand when the server ID is not authenticated the communication module transmits the terminal ID and the server ID to the first server with the wireless communication circuit and demands the authentication to the first server in the visible light receiving interrupt process X6 . Then the communication module stores the authentication code received from the first server as the endogenous variable in the visible light receiving interrupt process and then completes the visible light receiving interrupt process X7 .

A process of a code authentication show in is similar to the process of the code authentication shown in . A process of providing service information shown in is similar to the process of providing the service information shown in . A visible light ID solution process and a visible light receiving end process shown in are similar to the visible light ID solution process and the visible light receiving end process shown in respectively. A service providing process and a visible light receiving end process shown in are similar to the service providing process and the visible light receiving end process shown in respectively.

In this case if the second server is virtualized multiple pieces of ID information visible light ID related to each other may be managed and the multiple pieces of visible light ID related to each other may also be authenticated collectively as the server ID. That is the second server may be configured to divide the multiple pieces of ID information into a plurality of groups having two or more pieces of ID information that are mutually related and to store the server identification information for each of the plurality of groups.

When the first server generates the authentication code for each piece of terminal ID as shown in the visible light receiving interrupt process of the communication module is unnecessary. After performing the authentication registration and the code authentication the generation and the transmission of the authentication code initially the first server is not accessed till the communication terminal completes the application software .

Processes of providing service information shown in are similar to the processes of providing the service information shown in . A visible light ID solution process and a visible light receiving end process shown in are similar to the visible light ID solution process and the visible light receiving end process shown in respectively. A service providing process and a visible light receiving end process shown in are similar to the service providing process and the visible light receiving end process shown in respectively.

In a point of view to aim improvement of user s convenience and to change the second server providing the service for each application software preferably the control module gets possible to change software in response to the service provided to the user. In a point of view to be capable of providing different service preferably the server ID the identification information of the second server is memorized in the control module directly or indirectly. Here directly means to put the server ID into the application software directly. On the other hand indirectly means to take in the server ID through a third server in a case where the third server providing the server ID is disposed to be separated from the second server . In the case of indirectly the information included in the application software is only information of the third server. In a point of view to provide the different service preferably multiple pieces of identification information of the second server are memorized in the control module directly or indirectly and get possible to be changed in response to the provided service content.

By the way in response to contents of the service that is provided by the application software there is a case where it is decided whether or not the service is provided in response to attribute for example sex age married or unmarried of the user. In this case the communication module transmits the visible light ID the server ID of the second server and the attribute information of the user stored as the internal variable to the first server in the visible light receiving interrupt process after the communication terminal is authenticated by the first server through the terminal ID. That is after the communication terminal is authenticated by the first server through the terminal ID the communication module transmits the visible light ID received from the visible light communication device the server ID received from the control module and the attribute information of the user instead of the terminal ID assigned to the communication terminal to the first server by the wireless communication. When the visible light ID the server ID and the attribute information that are received from the communication terminal match the visible light ID the server ID and the attribute information that are registered in the database respectively the first server generates the authentication code and then transmits the authentication code and the terminal identification information to the communication terminal and the second server . Therefore the first server can generate the authentication code for each piece of attribute information of the user in a lump. In this case the personal information assigned to the side of the communication terminal is the attribute information of the user.

Here preferably the first server is configured to include database including authentication information generated by combining the visible light ID the server ID of the second server and the terminal ID or the attribute information. For example a combination with the terminal ID and the server ID a combination with the terminal ID and the visible light ID or a combination with the terminal ID the server ID and the visible light ID are registered in the database as the authentication information. Therefore the first server can authenticate the communication terminal and the second server and generate the authentication code in various conditions.

The visible light communication system according to the embodiment described above includes the visible light communication device the communication terminal the first server and the at least one second server . The visible light communication device is configured to transmit the at least one piece of unique ID information visible light ID by the visible light communication. The communication terminal is assigned with the unique terminal identification information terminal ID and is configured to receive the ID information by the visible light communication. The first server is configured to memorize the terminal identification information assigned to the communication terminal and to perform the wireless communication through the medium of the electric wave with the communication terminal . The second server is assigned with the unique server identification information and is configured to memorize the service information corresponding to the ID information and to perform the wireless communication through the medium of the electric with the communication terminal . The communication terminal includes the communication module and the control module . The communication module is configured to perform the visible light communication and the wireless communication. The control module is configured to memorize the server identification information and to provide the service to the user. The service corresponds to the service information. The first server is configured to memorize the server identification information assigned to the second server . When the terminal identification information and the server identification information that are received from the communication terminal match the terminal identification information and the server identification information that are memorized in the first server respectively the first server is configured to authenticate the communication terminal and the second server . After the communication terminal is authenticated by the first server through the terminal identification information the communication module is configured to transmit the ID information received from the visible light communication device the server identification information received from the control module and the personal information the terminal identification information the attribute information included in the communication terminal to the first server by the wireless communication. The first server in configured to memorize the personal information. When the ID information the server identification information and the personal information that are received from the communication module by the wireless communication match the ID information the server identification information and the personal information that are memorized in the first server respectively the first server is configured to generate the authentication code. The first server is configured to transmit the generated authentication code and the terminal identification information to the communication module and the second server by the wireless communication. The communication module is configured to receive the authentication code transmitted by the first server and then to transmit the ID information and the terminal identification information to the second server by the wireless communication. When the terminal identification information received from the communication module matches the terminal identification information received from the first server the second server is configured to reply the authentication code and the service information to the communication module . When the authentication code received from the first server matches the authentication code received from the second server the communication module is configured to output the service information received from the second server to the control module .

Preferably as the embodiment the personal information is the terminal identification information assigned to the communication terminal .

Preferably as the embodiment the first server is configured to generate the authentication code attached with the expiration date and the communication module and the second server are configured to cancel the authentication code in which the expiration date passed.

Preferably as the embodiment the at least one piece of ID information includes the multiple pieces of ID information and the first server is configured to generate the authentication code for each of the multiple pieces of ID information.

Preferably as the embodiment the at least one second server includes a plurality of second servers and the first server is configured to memorize the multiple pieces of server identification information respectively assigned to the plurality of second servers and to generate the authentication code for each of the multiple pieces of server identification information.

Preferably as the embodiment the at least one piece of ID information includes the multiple pieces of ID information the second server is configured to divide the multiple pieces of ID information into the a plurality of groups having two or more pieces of ID information that are mutually related and to store the server identification information for each of the plurality of groups.

Preferably as the embodiment the first server is configured to memorize the multiple pieces of personal information as the personal information and to generate the authentication code for each of the multiple pieces of personal information.

Preferably as the embodiment the first server is configured to include the database including the authentication information that is generated by combining the ID information the server identification information and the personal information.

Although the present invention has been described with reference to certain preferred embodiments numerous modifications and variations can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the true spirit and scope of this invention namely claims.

