---

title: Dynamic URL personalization system for enhancing interactive television
abstract: A URL personalization system allowing a television service provider to dynamically associate multiple URLs with the video content item being viewed by the customer is provided. The associated URLs point to additional content that may be of interest to different customer demographics. A generic URL linking to the associated URLs may be inserted into the video content item. The system may personalize the generic URL by replacing or modifying the generic URL with a personalized URL based on information specific to the customer viewing the content before streaming the content or when additional content is requested. The customer is redirected to the personalized URL to obtain the additional content. This allows the television service provider to send a single video content item to all customers or large groups of customers while providing individual customers with an enhanced interactive television viewing experience.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09357277&OS=09357277&RS=09357277
owner: COX COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
number: 09357277
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140917
---
A growing number of customers choose to view video content streamed to various consumer electronic devices such as tablets and smartphones because they like more control over when where and how video content is experienced. Technology has also facilitated the use of multiple screens or windows i.e. multi screening to simultaneously consume different content. Consistent with these trends video customers have also embraced interactive television which offers a more immersive and enjoyable experience. Interactive television adds data services to traditional television technology. For example interactive television may allow customers to obtain additional information related to the video content being watched. Conventional usage of interactive television provides the same message to all customers. In other words all customers receive the same content stream and all customers access the same additional content. While this may be sufficient in some instances the same information is not relevant or interesting to every customer. It is with respect to these and other considerations that the present invention has been made.

Embodiments of the present invention provide for insertion of multiple links or URLs in a content stream and selection of one of the links based on a set of criteria which may be implemented as business rules. The links may be associated with a particular channel program portion of a program or time stamp association with a video content item based on a program level or channel level per device customer.

Embodiments of a URL personalization system allow a television service provider to associate additional content with the programming to provide an immersive interactive television viewing experience. The URL personalization system includes a video content server in communication with a link manager. The video content server streams video content items to customer endpoint devices. The link manager may be in communication with one or more data systems such as but not limited to a URL data system a rule data system a video content item data system and business data systems. A user agent running on the endpoint device receives the content stream and renders the video content item on a display associated with the endpoint device.

In operation the link manager associates one or more additional content URLs pointing to additional content servers storing additional content with the video content items. The additional content URLs may be stored in the URL data system. Selected additional content URLs may be aggregated into a link object that is associated with a video content item. Criteria such as target demographic features e.g. age gender residence address campaign features e.g. run dates or locations or restrictions e.g. adults only may be associated with individual additional content URLs or with aggregations of additional content URLs i.e. link objects and used to create business rules for making personalized selections of additional content URLs for customers.

In various embodiments the link manager may insert the link object into a content stream being sent by the television service provider to one or more endpoint devices. The link object associates an aggregation of links with an aspect of the content stream. The additional content URLs allow customers to access additional content e.g. video audio data etc. associated with the video content item and displays it in various ways according to the capability of the endpoint devices being used. The additional content URLs may also be used for targeted advertising based on the session profile which may include without limitation information about the customer the capabilities of the endpoint device and options configured in the user agent of the endpoint device.

For example a video content item may have multiple URLs associated with one time stamp. When the time stamp is reached the customer is redirected to the additional content at the personalized URL selected from the aggregated URLs by applying a set of business rules such as rules based on the endpoint device characteristics. If the customer is watching the program on a tablet the customer may be redirected to a first URL. If the customer is not interacting with the tablet e.g. the customer is not looking at the tablet the customer may be redirected to a second URL. If the customer is watching the program on a television tuned to a channel using a set top box the customer may be redirected to a third URL. Other rules covering additional scenarios may be included. Dynamically redirecting the customer to a URL that takes into account the information specific to the customer s situation allows a television service provider or content provider to offer an immersive viewing experience that is valuable to the customer and the owner of the additional content.

The endpoint device may be utilized to access the user agent that provides a user interface for viewing video content items and additional content. The user agent allows the customer to request a video content item from the television service provider receive the video content item request additional content associated with the video content item using the link object retrieve additional content using the personalized URL selected based on the characteristics of the viewing session e.g. date time of day the profile of the customer logged into the user agent the capabilities of the endpoint device and display the additional content. The resulting interactive viewing experience may include a blend of requested video content items with additional content and services from the television service provider or third party content owners or providers.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

A uniform resource locator URL personalization system and accompanying method are described herein and illustrated in the accompanying figures. The system allows a television service provider to dynamically associate multiple URLs with the content stream being viewed by the customer. The associated URLs point to additional content that may be of interest to different customer demographics. A generic URL linking to the associated URLs may be inserted into the video content item. The system may personalize the generic URL by replacing or modifying the generic URL with a personalized URL based on information specific to the customer viewing the content before streaming the content or when additional content is requested. The customer is redirected to the personalized URL to obtain the additional content determined to be most appropriate for the individual customer. This allows the television service provider to send a single content stream to all customers or large groups of customers while providing individual customers with an enhanced interactive television viewing experience.

The URL personalization system includes a video content server in communication with a link manager . The video content server streams video content items to customer endpoint devices . The link manager may be in communication with one or more data systems such as but not limited to a URL data system a rule data system a video content item data system and business data systems . A user agent running on the endpoint device receives the content stream and renders the video content item on a display associated with the endpoint device .

In operation the link manager associates one or more additional content URLs pointing to additional content servers storing additional content with the video content items. The additional content URLs may be stored in the URL data system . Selected additional content URLs may be aggregated into a link object that is associated with a video content item. As used herein video content items broadly encompass any video content or audiovisual content including but not limited to channels carrying linear or non linear programming linear program blocks individual programs and non linear i.e. on demand programs.

The additional content URLs associated with a video content item may be selected by the television service provider or by third parties such as content providers i.e. television networks and stations and advertisers. The television service provider may offer third parties the option to request and or purchase an association between an additional content URL and a video content item. For example a television network might choose to associate the URL for the home page of the television network with all channels and programs offered by the television network. The television network might also choose to associate the URL for a web page dedicated to a program and maintained by the television network with the program and the URL for a trailer to a new program in which viewers may be interested. Advertisers may choose to associate URLs for product videos e.g. commercials or product web pages with particular channels or programs.

The television service provider may provide URLs to other video content items offered by the television service provider. In various embodiments a recommendation system in communication with business data systems may automatically select recommended video content items based on information known about the customer such as past viewing history and customer provided interests and hobbies.

Criteria such as target demographic features e.g. age gender residence address campaign features e.g. run dates or locations or restrictions e.g. adults only may be associated with individual additional content URLs or with aggregations of additional content URLs i.e. link objects . The criteria may be used to hand craft or automatically generate business rules for making personalized selections of additional content URLs for customers. In a server side implementation of the URL personalization system the business rules may be stored in the rule data system . In a client side implementation of the URL personalization system the business rules may be stored in the user agent e.g. a television service provider guide or viewer application . Alternatively the business rules or the criteria may be inserted into the metadata associated with the video content item.

Various criteria may be used to associate different additional content URLs with video content items on a per customer or per endpoint device basis. Based on feedback received from the endpoint device the additional content URLs may be dynamically updated according to the business rules applied to select which of the additional content URLs to be used. In this manner a customer may be provided with a link to an advertisement but the advertisement that is provided will be different when the customer accesses the advertisement at 10 00 AM using a tablet than when that customer accesses the advertisement at 9 00 PM from a set top box and television.

In various embodiments the link manager may dynamically insert a link object into a content stream being sent by the television service provider to one or more endpoint devices addressable over an internet protocol network . Networks suitable for use with the URL personalization system may include but are not limited to one or more of a television service provider content delivery network the Internet a wide area network and a local area network. Examples of suitable endpoint devices include but are not limited to digital set top boxes personal computers tablet computing devices smart phones smart televisions digital media players and game consoles.

The link object associates an aggregation of links with an aspect of the content stream including without limitation a particular video content item i.e. a program or the channel carrying the program. The link object may be persistent for the duration of the content stream or limited to portions of the content stream e.g. specific scenes within the content stream . The aggregated URLs are a collection of URLs linking to additional content located on a content server. The additional content URLs allow customers to access additional content e.g. video audio data etc. associated with the video content item and may display the additional content in various ways according to the capabilities of the endpoint devices being used. The additional content URLs may also be used for targeted advertising based on the session profile which may include without limitation information about the customer the capabilities of the endpoint device and options configured in the user agent of the endpoint device.

For example a video content item may have multiple URLs associated with one time stamp. When the time stamp is reached the customer is redirected to the additional content at the personalized URL selected from the aggregated URLs by applying a set of business rules such as rules based on the endpoint device characteristics. If the customer is watching the program on a tablet the customer may be redirected to a first URL. If the customer is not interacting with the tablet e.g. the customer is not looking at the tablet the customer may be redirected to a second URL. If the customer is watching the program on a television tuned to a channel using a set top box the customer may be redirected to a third URL. Other rules covering additional scenarios may be included. Dynamically redirecting the customer to a URL that takes into account the information specific to the customer s situation allows a television service provider or content provider to offer an immersive viewing experience that is valuable to the customer and the owner of the additional content.

Video content items may be live or pre recorded programs streamed as linear programming e.g. the program lineup on a particular channel . Video content items also encompass non linear programming from a video on demand system or a cloud based digital video recorder. It is worth noting that time shifting the viewing of a video content item originally streamed by the television service provider may not prevent operation of the URL personalization system. For example the link object may be stored with a video content item streamed by the television service provider and recorded by a customer using a local digital video recorder or other time shifting device. When the locally stored copy is played back i.e. streamed from the local digital video recorder to the endpoint device the link object associated with the video content item may be processed and the aggregated URLs may be personalized.

The endpoint device may be utilized to access the user agent that provides a user interface for viewing video content items and additional content. The user agent allows the customer to request a video content item from the television service provider receive the video content item request additional content associated with the video content item using the link object retrieve additional content using the personalized URL selected based on the characteristics of the viewing session e.g. date time of day the profile of the customer logged into the user agent the capabilities of the endpoint device and display the additional content. The resulting interactive viewing experience may include a blend of requested video content items with additional content and services from the television service provider or third party content owners or providers. According to embodiments the user agent or other application running on the endpoint device may communicate customer profile data and display device data to the link manager .

A reporting module may collect information such as but not limited to the customer identifier used when accessing the link object the links available to the customer and the link that is accessed. The information collected by the reporting module may be reported to the television service provider or the content owner. Such information allows the television service provider or the content source to ascertain the utilization of the available links. The link manager may analyze the reported information and update the available aggregated URLs based on the analysis results. Analysis of the reported information and updates to the available aggregated URLs may occur in real time.

The various components of the URL personalization system including without limitation the video content server the link manager the recommendation system the reporting module and the various data systems may be implemented using one or more computing devices e.g. application servers or data servers executing software providing the functionality described herein.

A rule building operation generates a business rule set that may be used to select update edit or replace one or more of the aggregated URLs based on a session profile that may include various information about the customer the endpoint device the user agent configuration and viewing characteristics. The business rule set incorporates one or more evaluation criteria that determine which URL or URLs are applicable to a particular viewing situation. Stated differently each URL may have one or more associated evaluation criteria that determine whether URL is applicable in a particular viewing situation. While described as business rules it should be appreciated that a decision tree or other evaluation mechanism may be used to personalize the URLs from the aggregated URLs to the customer. Embodiments may use generalized business rule sets that are broadly applicable to a number of different URL sets customized business rule sets specifically applicable only to particular URL sets or a combination thereof.

In various embodiments a default URL may be associated with each channel or video content item and used in situations such as when no other URLs are associated with a video content item none of the other associated URLs apply or no personalization rules are supplied. For example the default URL may redirect customers to the home page of the website for the television service provider streaming the video content item to the customer the television network that created the video content item or the television channel including the video content item in its programming. Embodiments may aggregate the default URL into the URL set or use as the default URL the generic link. Alternatively embodiments may use a default rule to replace a generic link with the default URL.

An information collection operation collects various information which may include without limitation information about the capabilities of the endpoint device being used to view the video content item the customer viewing the video content item and the options configured in the user agent running on the endpoint device. For example the user agent may communicate customer profile data and endpoint device data to the link manager when the customer changes requests a video content item. Basic information such as the endpoint device IP address the customer identifier date and time may be transmitted by the user agent. In some embodiments the basic information may be used to obtain further information. For example business data systems maintained by the television service provider may store customer profiles containing information voluntarily provided by customers or collected in the ordinary course of business such as without limitation billing data e.g. residence address demographic data e.g. age and gender preferences and interests e.g. hobbies preferred program genres program ratings etc. historical activity information e.g. on demand content viewed purchased which may be retrieved using the customer identifier. Some information such as the endpoint device IP address may be dynamically assigned and may be used to identify the current general location e.g. a region or city of the customer. Other information such as endpoint device capabilities and user agent configuration is not typically stored by television service provider business data systems.

A URL personalization operation applies evaluation criteria to the information in the session profile to select personalized URLs to associate with the video content item. The evaluation criteria may be implemented in a variety of ways including but not limited to business rules comparisons or decision trees. When the aggregated URLs are carried by the link object the URL personalization operation may select one of the URLs from the aggregated URLs as the personalized URL based on the results of the business rule application. When the link object is a generic URL that points to a location where the associated aggregated URLs are stored the URL personalization operation may replace the generic URL with one of the aggregated URLs based on the results of the business rule application. The URL personalization operation may also personalize URLs by modifying adding or deleting URLs associated with the link object. Modification may involve changes such as but not limited to rewriting or adding parameters to a generic URL or some or all of the aggregated URLs.

The evaluation criteria may be based on information including but not limited to at least one of a customer identifier associated with the customer viewing the video content item a customer profile associated with the customer identifier a video content item profile associated with the video content item being viewed additional content profiles for the additional content associated with the video content item being viewed current session data associated with viewing the video content item an endpoint device profile associated with the endpoint device used to view the video content item options configured in the user agent used to view the video content item and interaction indicators.

Examples of customer profile data include without limitation addresses age gender interests hobbies preferences languages billing history and viewing history associated with the customer.

Examples of video content item profile data include without limitation a genre live pre recorded status and linear non linear i.e. on demand status associated with the video content item being viewed by the customer.

Examples of additional content profile data include without limitation a content type priority weights and restrictions on and or eligibilities for time date location age parental controls languages and other characteristics. The restriction data may be used to define conditions such as when where or to whom the additional content i.e. the associated URL is or is not available a lifespan for the additional content and the like.

Examples of current session data include without limitation a location where the video content item is being viewed a time of day when the video content item is being viewed and a date when the video content item is being viewed.

Examples of endpoint device profile data include without limitation a device identifier internet protocol IP address media access control MAC address and display capabilities of the endpoint device used to view the video content item and access the additional content.

Examples of user agent option data include without limitation closed captioning settings secondary audio programming settings and parental controls associated with customer identifier.

Examples of interaction indicators include without limitation detection of eyes looking at the endpoint device and inputs using the endpoint device.

The following scenarios are representative of URL personalization that may be implemented through the application of business rules as part of the URL personalization operation . These scenarios are not intended to limit the diverse range of URL personalization available in any way.

For example a business rule may be based on the secondary audio program SAP setting. Anytime SAP is turned on the system attempts to utilize the URL associated with the language indicated by the SAP setting.

Another business rule may personalize URLs based on one or more of the characteristics of the session profile. For example the parental control and the secondary audio program SAP settings may be evaluated together allowing URLs to be personalized based on both the age and language of the customer.

The URLs may be prioritized to allow selection of the most appropriate URL when multiple criteria are satisfied. For example one URL might redirect customers in a particular viewing location to an advertisement for a local restaurant and another URL might redirect customers viewing the content after midnight to an advertisement to a sleep aid. The sleep aid advertisement URL may be given greater priority such that if both the viewing location and viewing time criteria are satisfied the sleep aid advertisement URL is selected as the most appropriate personalized URL. Similarly the evaluation criteria may be used to score the characteristics and select the most appropriate URL based on the score. The contribution to the score for each characteristic may be weighted to emphasize certain characteristics.

The URLs may also be dynamically updated based on the output of the recommendation system or the reporting system. For example when the customer accesses a car advertisement for a car featured in a video content item the URLs may be updated to cater to the customer s apparent interest in the car to include additional content URLs for car reviews auto loan financing options and or local car dealerships.

A URL aggregation operation may group one or more URLs to be associated with a particular video content item into a URL set. The URL aggregation operation may aggregate URLs provided by different entities. The set of URLs may include at least one URL of general applicability such as the home page of the website for the television service provider or television channel delivering the video content item. The URL set may also include one or more URLs of targeted applicability for example URLs pointing to additional content related to a particular video content item or targeted at particular demographic groups.

The URL set may be stored in a link object or stored in a URL repository e.g. a database referenced using a generic URL that points to the URL set. In some instances the link object may contain multiple URLs associated with the video content item from which a personalized URL may be selected or which may be modified to create personalized URLs. In some instances the link object may hold a single generic URL that links to a location where the URLs associated with the video content item are stored.

A link object association operation associates the link object with a video content item that may be streamed to customer endpoint devices. The link object may be associated with the video content item via a variety of mechanisms. For example the link object may be inserted in the metadata or may be sent in a separate data stream synchronized with the video content item. In some embodiments the link object may be a container holding the aggregated URLs. In other embodiments the link object may be generic link pointing to the location where the additional content URLs are stored e.g. the URL data system .

A video content item delivery operation delivers the content stream carrying the video content item with the associated link object to customer endpoint devices.

A link interaction detection operation detects when the link object is activated. As used herein activation of a link object encompasses any activity that requires personalization of the aggregated URLs associated with the link object including but not limited to selecting modifying or filtering the aggregated URLs or user interface controls displayed and invoking the link object to request additional content. Activation of the link object may occur automatically e.g. upon occurrence of a selected condition or manually e.g. interaction with user interface control .

An additional content retrieval operation obtains the additional content from the content server located at address specified by the additional content URL.

An interactive content display operation displays the video content item and the additional content on the customer s endpoint device s . The personalized URLs may also be used to present the video content and additional content in a variety of display configurations based on factors such as the display capabilities of the endpoint device s the type of addition content and the importance priority preference given to the additional content. Numerous presentation scenarios may be personalized through rules based on endpoint device capabilities and content characteristics. The following scenarios are representative of where the presentation of video content items and additional content may be enhanced through the use of the URL personalization system.

For example sensory competitive additional content which includes audio and or video content e.g. a commercial video game or movie trailer audio or video commentary or song may at least temporarily replace the video content item or result in the video content item being paused or muted. Integral additional content such as karaoke style lyrics for a music video closed captioning or subtitles may be presented as an overlay on the video content item.

Dissimilar additional content such as an image webpage other static visual content and other content that does not include competing audio components e.g. a video window of an interpreter translating the spoken audio of the video content item into sign language may be presented simultaneously in a split screen or windowed arrangement depending upon the screen size and or screen resolution of the endpoint device. In some embodiments the video content item may be windowed but remain dominant with the additional content displayed alongside the video content item window. Conversely if greater emphasis is placed on the additional content e.g. emergency preparedness information the video content item may be subordinated to the additional content and displayed in a scaled window embedded in the additional content.

If a companion device is available the additional content and the video content item may be redirected to separate displays in cases where the use of a secondary display enhances the interactive experience. By way of example personalizing the URL to simultaneously display an additional content website and the video content item on separate endpoint devices typically provides an immersive and enhancing viewing experience. Conversely simultaneously presenting integral content on separate endpoint devices would not be an enhancement and simultaneously presenting sensory competitive content on separate endpoint devices would detract from the interactive experience.

As previously mentioned URL personalization may occur prior to making a request for additional content. One example of URL personalization prior to making a request for additional content occurs when determining whether the aggregated URLs should be available to the current customer. In other words Links associated with the video content item that are not In the case of a link object configured to display one or more user interface controls allowing the customer to choose whether to view the additional content it may be desirable to personalize the URLs before displaying the user interface controls. By not offering additional content that is not suitable or interesting to customers the interactive television viewing experience may be enhanced.

Embodiments may integrate additional content selection and display configuration personalization rules or additional content selection and display configuration personalization rules may be crafted to be applied separately. In other words URL personalization to select the URL for the additional content may be performed and then the URL further personalized to configure the presentation of the additional content.

The link object may be automatically or manually activated to cause the additional content to be displayed to the customer. For example the link object may be automatically activated at a specific point in time i.e. a time stamp associated with the video content item to display additional content in the form of an advertisement video to the customer i.e. a commercial break . However instead of displaying the same commercial to all customers a personalized advertisement URL may be selected from the aggregated URLs associated with the link object. For example when the link object is activated in a television program that appeals to both children and adults the business rules may use the age category associated with the active customer profile to personalize the URL that provides the targeted advertising content. The personalized URL may cause a coffee advertisement to be displayed if the active customer profile belongs to an adult a soft drink advertisement to be displayed if the active customer profile belongs to a teenager and a juice box advertisement to be displayed if the active customer profile belongs to a young child.

A manually activated link object may be associated with a button other control that initiates URL personalization and access the additional content. For example in the case of a video content item that has a dedicated website provided as additional content a button that activates the link object may be displayed while the video content item is being viewed. When the button is activated information about the endpoint device being used to request the additional content may be used to personalize the URL and configure how the website is displayed. On a large screen high resolution endpoint device e.g. a television or personal computer the personalized URL may split the screen and display the video content item side by side with the website dedicated to the video content item. On a small screen low resolution endpoint device e.g. a smartphone the personalized URL may pause playback of the video content item and use the full display of the endpoint device to show the website. When the customer closes the website the playback of the video content item may resume automatically using the full display of the endpoint device. If the customer is using a companion endpoint device e.g. a tablet computing device with a primary endpoint device e.g. a set top box and attached television the personalized URL may redirect the additional content to the companion device while the video content item continues to be shown on the primary endpoint device.

The CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side headend and a client side customer via a client side set top box functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the set top box . In the illustrated embodiment the set top box is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device keyboard or other computing device such as a smart phone a personal computer e.g. a laptop or desktop a smart television a set top box a tablet slate computer etc. The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the television or the set top box via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The remote control device may include a biometric input module. The set top box also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the set top box and the server side headend system described below.

The set top box also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the set top box in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television set the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the set top box for example to output the news flash to the television set at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces APIs that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side set top box . The middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side set top box may format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

According to one embodiment the set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television set via a one way communication transport . According to other embodiments two way communication transports may be utilized for example via high definition multimedia HDMI ports. The set top box may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The set top box may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the set top box and for distribution to the television set . The in band signaling space operates in a specified frequency range that is generally divided into channels. Each channel may carry one or more signals for example a single analog signal or multiple digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. The out of band frequency range is generally lower than the frequency range used for in band signaling. Data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side set top box . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system is well known to those skilled in the art.

The headend of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side set top boxes for presentation to customers via television set . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the headend of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data such as content metadata from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . When the application server receives the downloaded content metadata the middleware layer may be utilized to format the content metadata for receipt and use by the set top box . Therefore content metadata may be sent and categorized based on the availability to the customer s program guide data.

According to one embodiment data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box . According to embodiments client application may include the user agent described herein.

According to embodiments the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. In the illustrated embodiment the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

A web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from the various data services systems. According to embodiments when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

An authentication system may include information such as secure user names subscriber profiles subscriber IDs and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate systems may be integrated or provided in any combination of separate systems of which the illustrated embodiment is only one example.

Computing devices may be implemented in different ways in different embodiments. For instance in the illustrated embodiment the computing device includes a processing system memory a network interface a secondary storage device an input device a video interface a display unit and a communication medium . In other embodiments the computing device may be implemented using more or fewer hardware components e.g. a video interface a display unit or an input device or in combination with other types of computer systems and program modules.

The processing system includes one or more processing units which may include tangible integrated circuits that selectively execute computer executable instructions. In various embodiments the processing units in the processing system are implemented in various ways. For example the processing units in the processing system can be implemented as one or more processing cores. In another example the processing system can comprise one or more separate microprocessors. In yet another example embodiment the processing system can comprise Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs that provide specific functionality. In yet another example the processing system provides specific functionality by using an ASIC and by executing computer executable instructions.

Memory and secondary storage device may store computer readable information such as but not limited to computer executable instructions e.g. programs data structures and or data. The processing system may perform an I O operation to retrieve the computer readable information from the secondary storage device . According to one embodiment any of the applications of the system may be may be stored locally on computing device . Thus memory and or secondary storage device may store the computer executable instructions that when executed by processor provide the functionality described herein via the system .

In various embodiments memory and secondary storage device may be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media. Computer readable storage media broadly encompasses removable and non removable devices media and other articles of manufacture which may be implemented in various methods or technologies providing for volatile or nonvolatile storage and retrieval of computer readable information. As used herein computer readable media includes computer readable storage media. Example types of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to solid state memory flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM DDR2 SDRAM DDR3 SDRAM read only memory ROM reduced latency DRAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM magnetic disks magnetic tape drives CD ROM discs DVD ROM discs and Blu Ray discs.

The computing device may be enabled to send data to and receive data from a communication network via a network interface card . In different embodiments the network interface card is implemented in different ways such as an Ethernet interface a token ring network interface a fiber optic network interface a wireless network interface e.g. Wi Fi Wi Max etc. or another type of network interface. The network interface may allow the device to communicate with other devices such as over a wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute communication applications storage servers and comparable devices.

The input device enables the computing device to receive input from a user. Example types of input devices include but are not limited to keyboards mice trackballs stylus input devices keypads microphones joysticks touch sensitive display screens and other types of devices that provide user input to the computing device .

The video interface outputs video information to the display unit . In different embodiments the video interface is implemented in different ways. For example the video interface is a video expansion card. In another example the video interface is integrated into a motherboard of the computing device . In various embodiments the display unit can be a an LCD display panel a touch sensitive display panel an LED screen a projector a cathode ray tube display or another type of display unit. In various embodiments the video interface communicates with the display unit in various ways. For example the video interface can communicate with the display unit via a Universal Serial Bus USB connector a VGA connector a digital visual interface DVI connector an S Video connector a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI interface a DisplayPort connector or another type of connection.

The communications medium facilitates communication among the hardware components of the computing device . In different embodiments the communications medium facilitates communication among different components of the computing device . For instance in the illustrated embodiment the communications medium facilitates communication among the memory the processing system the network interface card the secondary storage device the input device and the video interface . In different embodiments the communications medium is implemented in different ways such as a PCI bus a PCI Express bus an AcceleratedGraphics Port AGP bus an InfiniBand interconnect a serial Advanced Technology Attachment ATA interconnect a parallel ATA interconnect a Fiber Channel interconnect a USB bus a Small Computer System Interface SCSI interface or another type of communications medium.

The memory stores various types of data and or software instructions. For instance in the illustrated embodiment the memory stores a Basic Input Output System BIOS and an operating system . The BIOS includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to boot up. The operating system includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide an operating system that coordinates the activities and sharing of resources of the computing device . The memory also stores one or more application programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide applications to users. The memory also stores one or more utility programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide utilities to other software programs.

Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment.

Data input to the device may be performed via a variety of suitable means such as touch screen input via the display screen keyboard or keypad input via a data entry area key input via one or more selectable buttons or controls voice input via a microphone disposed on the device photographic input via a camera functionality associated with the mobile computing device or any other suitable input means. Data may be output via the device via any suitable output means including but not limited to display on the display screen audible output via an associated speaker or connected earphone system vibration module for providing tactile output and the like.

Referring now to operational unit is illustrative of internal operating functionality of the mobile computing device . A processor is illustrative of a general purpose computer processor for processing incoming and outgoing data and communications and controlling operation of the device and associated software applications via a mobile computing device operating system. Memory may be utilized for storing a device operating system device programming one or more stored applications for example mobile telephone applications data processing applications calculators games Internet browsing applications navigation applications acceleration applications camera and or video applications etc. According to one embodiment the client application may be stored locally on mobile computing device .

Mobile computing device may contain an accelerometer for detecting acceleration and can be used to sense orientation vibration and or shock. Mobile computing device may contain a global positioning system GPS system e.g. GPS send receive functionality . A GPS system uses radio waves to communicate with satellites orbiting the Earth. Some GPS enabled mobile computing devices use wireless assisted GPS to determine a user s location wherein the device uses orbiting GPS satellites in conjunction with information about the device s mobile phone signal. Radio functions include all required functionality including onboard antennae for allowing the device to communicate with other communication devices and systems via a wireless network. Radio functions may be utilized to communicate with a wireless or a WI FI positioning system to determine the location of a device .

Although described herein in combination with mobile computing device in alternative embodiments the invention may be used in combination with any number of computer systems such as in desktop environments laptop or notebook computer systems multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable customer electronics networked PCs mini computers main frame computers and the like. Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment and where programs may be located in both local and remote memory storage.

Embodiments for example are described above with reference to flowcharts and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart or described herein with reference to the Figures. For example two processes shown or described in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data may be stored on or read from other types of computer readable storage media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks a CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed processes may be modified in any manner including by reordering and or inserting or deleting a step or process without departing from the embodiments.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not with this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

