---

title: Sorption pumps and storage for gases
abstract: A method and system for filling gas storage vessels from a source operates by cooling a sorbent, opening a valve to transfer gas by physisorption, regulating the sorbent temperature to achieve the desired degree of filling, closing the valve connecting to the gas source, and warming the tank, sorbent, and gas to provide a predetermined pressure at room temperature.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09415996&OS=09415996&RS=09415996
owner: BlackPak, Inc.
number: 09415996
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140818
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE AR0000462 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates generally to transferring gaseous fuel into a tank at reduced temperatures through sorption onto cooled porous media. A device that combines features of a storage tank and a sorption pump is also disclosed.

The use of natural gas as a fuel for internal combustions engines is increasing because of its low cost availability and clean burning characteristics. Current storage methods based on liquefied compressed and adsorbed natural gas require a storage vessel or tank to be supplied with gas at elevated pressures. In the case of liquefied natural gas a compressor is used to cool and liquefy gas by adiabatic expansion. In the case of compressed natural gas a mechanical compressor is used to increase the pressure in the storage vessel to tens of MPa. Gas is also compressed to fill adsorbed natural gas tanks at pressures between about 3 MPa and about 25 MPa.

A problem with current methods of filling natural gas tanks is that pressurizing flammable natural gas is hazardous and requires mechanical compressors with multiple stages to prevent thermal decomposition of the gas. Filling an absorbed natural gas tank generates heat from compression of the gas friction between moving pump parts and through the enthalpy of adsorption from binding of the gas to the sorbent. Therefore a second problem with current methods of filling adsorbed natural gas tanks is management of heat produced by compression and adsorption. Thus there exists a need for improved systems and methods for filling and storing tanks with natural gas.

In one aspect disclosed is a method of transferring a gas from a source to a vessel the method comprising i cooling a sorbent material within the vessel ii opening a valve to transfer gas by physisorption from the source to the vessel iii regulating the temperature of the sorbent material to control the gas transfer iv closing the valve connecting the vessel to the source of gas and v warming the vessel sorbent and gas. The warming of the vessel sorbent and gas can provide a predetermined pressure e.g. 35 bar at a selected temperature e.g. ambient temperature .

In certain embodiments the storage capacity of the sorbent material defined as the ratio of liter atmospheres of gas stored to liters of sorbent volume is greater than one.

In certain embodiments the sorbent material is one or more of zeolites porous glass porous carbon metal organic framework materials microporous polymers and clay.

In another aspect disclosed is a system for pumping gas storing gas or a combination thereof the system comprising a sorbent material a thermal conductor in contact with the sorbent material a pressure vessel a valve configured to connect the pressure vessel to a source of gas and optionally a thermally insulating layer wherein the sorbent material and the thermal conductor are disposed within the pressure vessel. The temperature of the sorbent material can be controlled with the thermal conductor in contact with a thermal bath at a different temperature.

In certain embodiments the thermal conductor is thermally connected to a cooling source a heating source or a combination thereof.

In certain embodiments the thermal conductor comprises one or more thermoelectric plates in thermal contact with the sorbent material a second thermal conductor in thermal contact with the one or more thermoelectric plates a thermal bath in thermal contact with the second thermal conductor and a source of electrical power connected to the one or more thermoelectric plates.

In certain embodiments the thermal conductor comprises one or more tubes perforating the sorbent material. The tubes can be configured to receive a flow of a refrigerated liquid a heated liquid a cooled gas a heated gas or a combination thereof. The flow of the refrigerated liquid the heated liquid the cooled gas the heated gas or a combination thereof can facilitate heat transfer to the sorbent material heat transfer from the sorbent material or a combination thereof.

In certain embodiments a pressure transducer is connected to the vessel e.g. to provide automated operation of valves cooling elements heating elements or combination thereof .

In certain embodiments one or more temperature sensors are connected to the sorbent material e.g. to provide automated operation of valves cooling elements heating elements or combination thereof .

In certain embodiments the system comprises a thermal insulation layer e.g. a thermal insulation layer between the pressure vessel inner wall and the sorbent material thermal conductor a thermal insulation layer on the exterior wall of the pressure vessel or a combination thereof .

In certain embodiments cooling of the sorbent is accomplished by detaching the vessel and placing it in a cooled environment e.g. a refrigerator or freezer . Thus the pressure vessel can be configured to be detachable from the source of gas. Preferably such a detachable vessel configured for cooling e.g. in a refrigerator or freezer does not include a thermal insulating layer.

In certain embodiments the system comprises a second valve providing a fluid connection from the pressure vessel to a second vessel.

In certain embodiments the system can be configured for use with a vehicle a generator or another platform that requires gaseous fuel.

In another aspect disclosed is a method of manufacturing a system for pumping gas storing gas or a combination thereof the system comprising a sorbent material a thermal conductor in contact with the sorbent material a pressure vessel and a valve configured to connect the pressure vessel to a source of gas wherein the sorbent material and the thermal conductor are disposed within the pressure vessel the method comprising 1 placing at least a portion of the sorbent material and at least a portion of the thermal conductor in contact and enclosing the sorbent material and thermal conductor in the pressure vessel or 2 placing the sorbent material in the pressure vessel including the thermal conductor such that at least a portion of the sorbent material and at least a portion of the thermal conductor are in thermal contact.

In certain embodiments the placing of at least a portion of the sorbent material and at least a portion of the thermal conductor in thermal contact comprises packing sorbent material around an array of thermally conductive tubing configured to receive a flow of heat transfer fluid heat transfer gas or a combination thereof.

In certain embodiments the placing of at least a portion of the sorbent material and at least a portion of the thermal conductor in thermal contact comprises forming a composite of sorbent formed over a three dimensional grid of thermally conductive wires.

In certain embodiments the placing of the sorbent material in the pressure vessel including the thermal conductor comprises filling the pressure vessel with sorbent through a flange.

Disclosed are systems and methods for filling gas fuel tanks e.g. natural gas fuel tanks from a source of gas. The systems and methods operate by cooling a sorbent within a vessel and transferring gas to the vessel by physisorption to the sorbent. Gas can be transferred for example by opening a valve to transfer gas by physisorption. The sorbent temperature can be regulated to achieve the desired degree of filling. Once the desired degree of filling is achieved the transfer of gas to the sorbent can be discontinued e.g. by closing a valve connecting to the gas source . The vessel sorbent and gas can then be warmed to provide a predetermined pressure at room temperature.

The present disclosure exploits the fundamental thermodynamics of physisorption to accomplish charging of storage tanks with gaseous fuel at or near atmospheric pressure 100 kPa . A pressure vessel with no sorbent has storage capacity herein defined as the ratio of the quantity of stored gas in standard liters divided by the vessel volume that is directly proportional to pressure and inversely proportional to temperature. Sorbents such as zeolites activated carbons metal organic framework materials and the like within the tank weakly bind the gas and qualitatively change these relationships so that a plot of storage capacity versus pressure at fixed temperature also called an isotherm surpasses that of an empty vessel. Referring to four isotherms at 273 K 243 K 216 K and 178 K for a typical carbon based sorbent show storage capacity substantially exceeding that for a vessel with no sorbent at the same temperatures. see e.g. Strizhenova et al. Protection of Metals and Physical Chemistry of Surfaces 2014 Vol. 50 No. 1 pp. 15 21. Pleiades Publishing Ltd. 2014. 4 Apr. 2014 . At one atmosphere pressure 10Pa and 273 K for example a one liter sorbent free tank contains 1 liter atmosphere of methane while the sorbent filled container holds 40 65 105 and 173 liter atmospheres at 273 K 243 K 216 K and 178 K respectively.

The maximum quantity of gas stored is determined by the temperature of the sorbent the isotherm for the sorbent gas combination and the fill pressure. Referring to a utility gas spigot operating at 150 kPa can collect 180 liter atmospheres of methane in one liter of sorbent if the latter is maintained at 178 K as shown schematically by the arrow . After closing the valve and coupling to a thermal bath at 273 K the pressure in the vessel will rise to 3.2 MPa 30 bar as indicated by arrow . The amount of this gas that is available for use by for example an internal combustion engine depends on the isotherm at the corresponding extraction pressure and temperature in the same manner.

In addition to natural gas other gases can be transferred using the disclosed steps of cooling a sorbent isolating the source and warming the sorbent to ambient temperatures as outlined above. A series of isotherms for molecular hydrogen on a metal organic framework sorbent CuBTC were measured by Schmitz et al. Chem. Phys. Chem. 9 15 308 2008 and shown in with the presumption that the sorbent density is 1 g cm. The enthalpy of physisorption for Hon this material is less than that of methane on activated carbon so the temperatures at which sorption provides significant pumping capability are lower than those shown in . A source of Hat 10Pa and 160 K can be exposed to a cooled sorbent at 87 K as shown by arrow then sealing the vessel and warming it to 158 K arrow would result in a pressure of 10Pa 10 bar . Allowing this vessel to come to room temperature 298 K would produce a pressure of approximately 40 bar.

The disclosed systems and methods provide several advantages. As one advantage the disclosed systems and methods permit a desired quantity of gas to be transferred by sorption from a source at fill pressures substantially below 3 MPa and preferably around 100 kPa whereas conventional adsorbed natural gas tanks require pressures of 3 MPa and above. The need for a compressor to pressurize the gas is thereby reduced or eliminated. As another advantage the disclosed systems may act as a stand alone pump or in a preferred embodiment combine the function of pumping and storage in a single device.

As another advantage the disclosed systems allow filling of adsorbed gas tanks at the widely dispersed natural gas distribution system where delivery pressures are about one bar to about five bar without requiring compressors that are hazardous and expensive to purchase operate and maintain. More generally the disclosed systems and methods provide for filling storage vessels with gases that are unstable under the conditions of pressure and temperature that are developed in mechanical compressors.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. In case of conflict the present document including definitions will control. Preferred methods and materials are described below although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in practice or testing of the present invention. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. The materials methods and examples disclosed herein are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.

The terms comprise s include s having has can contain s and variants thereof as used herein are intended to be open ended transitional phrases terms or words that do not preclude the possibility of additional acts or structures. The singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The present disclosure also contemplates other embodiments comprising consisting of and consisting essentially of the embodiments or elements presented herein whether explicitly set forth or not.

The conjunctive term or includes any and all combinations of one or more listed elements associated by the conjunctive term. For example the phrase an apparatus comprising A or B may refer to an apparatus including A where B is not present an apparatus including B where A is not present or an apparatus where both A and B are present. The phrases at least one of A B . . . and N or at least one of A B . . . N or combinations thereof are defined in the broadest sense to mean one or more elements selected from the group comprising A B . . . and N that is to say any combination of one or more of the elements A B . . . or N including any one element alone or in combination with one or more of the other elements which may also include in combination additional elements not listed.

The terms first second third and the like as used herein do not denote any order quantity or importance but rather are used to distinguish one element from another.

The term storage capacity as used herein means the amount of stored gas in standard liters divided by the vessel volume in liters.

The term standard liter as used herein refers to the amount of gas contained in one liter at a pressure of 1 atmosphere and a temperature of 0 C.

The term sorbent as used herein means a permeable material that weakly and reversibly binds gas whose surface area provides a storage capacity greater than one.

The term source of gas as used herein may refer to for example a natural gas residential or industrial pipeline a liquified gas reservoir a tank or cylinder of compressed gas or a gas generator.

The term natural gas as used herein means a mixture of gases primarily comprised of methane with minor constituents including heavier hydrocarbons water carbon dioxide and trace materials such the sulfur bearing molecules used as odorants.

The term sorption isotherm as used herein means a measured relationship between the quantity mass or number of moles of adsorbed gas bound to a sorbent as a function of gas pressure at equilibrium and at a specified temperature.

The term enthalpy of combustion as used herein means the energy released as heat when a compound undergoes complete combustion.

In one aspect disclosed are systems for filling tanks e.g. natural gas fuel tanks from a source of gas. In certain embodiments the systems include a sorbent material a thermal conductor in contact with the sorbent material a pressure vessel a valve connecting to a source of gas and optionally a thermally insulating layer. The sorbent material and the thermal conductor can be disposed within the pressure vessel also referred to herein as a tank . The optional thermal insulating layer may be disposed within the pressure vessel outside the pressure vessel or a combination thereof. The sorbent material can be coupled by fluid communication to the source of gas e.g. natural gas via the valve. The valve may be contained within an inlet outlet connecting the pressure vessel to the source of gas. The thermal conductor can be thermally connected to a cooling source a heating source or a combination thereof. The thermal conductor can be used to control the temperature of the sorbent material.

In certain embodiments a system for filling a tank e.g. a natural gas tank includes a sorbent material a thermally conductive surface in contact with the sorbent material a cooling source that can be thermally connected to said conductive surface an ambient thermal bath or heating element that can be thermally connected to said conductive surface an enclosing vessel that thermally and mechanically isolates the sorbent from the ambient environment and a valve through which gas e.g. natural gas is admitted to the tank. The enclosing vessel may be comprised of a pressure vessel e.g. one that mechanically isolates the sorbent material a thermal insulating layer e.g. one that thermally isolates the sorbent material or a combination thereof.

In certain embodiments the system of can include a second fluid connection and valve that is connected with a second tank and uses the cyclic cooling filling and warming of the first tank as a pump to fill the second tank.

In certain embodiments the disclosed system is provided without thermal insulation . For example the system can be provided as a detachable fuel tank that can be placed in a conventional refrigerator or freezer to cool the sorbent and allow pumping of gas.

The disclosed systems can include one or more valves to allow for filling of additional tanks at pressures below those achieved on warming the primary tank to ambient temperatures. In other words the process of cooling and warming the sorbent takes gas at a lower pressure and produces it at a higher pressure analogous to the action of a mechanical compressor or pump.

The disclosed systems can include a pressure sensor to provide feedback on pressure in the pressure vessel that allows automatic operation of the valves and cooling circuit to control the filling and emptying of the vessel.

The disclosed systems can include one or more temperature probes connected to the sorbent to provide automated control of the thermal circuit and valves.

The disclosed systems can achieve cooling of the sorbent by elimination of the thermal insulation e.g. thermal insulation and placing the remaining elements of the system in a cooled environment e.g. a conventional refrigerator or freezer .

Suitable pressure vessels for use in the disclosed systems include but are not limited to metallic polymeric or composite barriers whose shape is designed to accommodate space constraints in a vehicle generator or other system requiring compressed gas for its operation. Metallic tanks may be fabricated from aluminum steel titanium or other alloys. Polymeric tanks may be fabricated by for example reaction injection molding of poly dicyclopentadiene. Examples of composite tanks can be fabricated from epoxy and carbon or glass fibers. It is apparent that storage of physisorbed gas permits storage of a standard quantity at lower pressure than ordinary compressed storage so that structural constraints on the shape and size of the adsorbed gas storage tank can be relaxed. In certain embodiments the pressure vessel is formed from an epoxy impregnated carbon fiber blanket preferably including a fitting that allows independent introduction of a gas and optionally a heat transfer fluid a heat transfer gas or combination thereof. In certain embodiments the pressure vessel is an aluminum or titanium vessel. In certain embodiments the pressure vessel is formed with polydicyclopentadiene by reaction injection molding and a ring opening metathesis polymerization.

Suitable thermal conductors for use in the disclosed systems include but are not limited to metals such as aluminum k thermal conductivity 200 W m K tungsten k 174 W m K nickel k 91 W m K steel k 43 W m K copper k 394 W m K or metallic alloys. Nonmetallic thermal conductors such as graphite k 80 W m K may also be used. Heat pipes may also be employed as thermal conductors because they facilitate transfer of heat from a hotter to a cooler region using flow of a jacketed liquid. Thermal conductors may take the form of external shells surrounding the sorbent tubes or sheets that penetrate the sorbent or a mesh network that is intercalated within the sorbent. In certain embodiments the thermal conductor is thermally conductive tubing configured to receive a flow of a heat transfer fluid a heat transfer gas or a combination thereof. In certain embodiments the thermal conductor is the pressure vessel material itself e.g. an aluminum or titanium pressure vessel . In certain embodiments the thermal conductor is a three dimensional grid of thermally conductive metal wires optionally welded to a thermally conductive metal foil that is optionally connected by welding to a metal mounting flange. It is to be understood that combinations of the foregoing thermal conductors can be used.

The temperature of the thermal conductors and thus the sorbent material can be controlled using a variety of devices and methods. Suitable devices for controlling the temperature of the thermal conductors include but are not limited to an ambient thermal bath thermally connected to the conductor a heating element thermally connected to the conductor a source of optical radiation that is absorbed by the sorbent hot fluid circulating through the radiator of an internal combustion engine refrigerant gas circulating through a vehicular air conditioning system or a heat sink that is heated and cooled by forced or unforced convection. Suitable methods for controlling the temperature of the thermal conductors include but are not limited to adjusting the voltage and current flow through a thermoelectric element varying the fluid flow rate or temperature of a heat transfer fluid adjusting the volumetric flow rate or temperature of a refrigerant gas varying the intensity or spectrum of illumination of the sorbent by optical radiation and establishing or breaking thermal contact of the thermal conductor and sorbent with a thermal bath.

Suitable sorbent materials for use in the disclosed systems include but are not limited to activated carbon graphite activated alumina molecular sieves aluminophosphate materials silicoaluminophosphate materials zeolites faujasite clinoptilolite mordenite metal exchanged silico aluminophosphate uni polar resins bi polar resins aromatic cross linked polystyrenic matrices brominated aromatic matrices acrylic polymers acrylic copolymers methacrylic polymers methacrylic copolymers hydroxyalkyl acrylates hydroxyalkyl methacrylates adsorbent carbonaceous materials adsorbent graphitic materials carbon fiber materials nanotubes nano materials adsorbent metal salts such as perchlorate and oxalate alkaline earth metal metallic particles ion exchange resins linear polymers of glucose polyacrylamides or a combination thereof. The zeolite may be an ion exchanged metal zeolite hydrophilic zeolite hydrophobic zeolite modified zeolites metal ion exchanged zeolite natural X type zeolite modified X type zeolite A type zeolite mordenite type zeolite chabazite type zeolite ion exchange resin bioselective sorbent or a combination thereof.

The sorbent material may include at least one support. For example the sorbent may be adhered to or embedded in a support. The support may be for example a series of micro channels laminar sheets a porous electrode a series of concentric layers or a combination thereof. Suitable supports include but are not limited to natural clay calcined clay modified clay chemically treated clay chemically modified clay smectite clay kaolin clay sub bentonite clay kaolin halloysite clay kaolin kaolonite clay kaolin nacrite clay kaolin anauxite clay binary matrix material tertiary matrix material silica thoria silica alumina silica alumina thoria silica alumina zirconia fibrous material colloidal silica material colloidal alumina material colloidal zirconia material colloidal mixture surface modified amorphous silicon dioxide nanoparticles hydrated magnesium aluminum silicate thermoplastic polymer thermosetting polymer ferrous support non ferrous support electrically conductive support dielectric support electromagnetic receptor or a combination thereof. The support may be applied by sintering pyrolysis slurrying vapor deposition casting electro spraying electrophoretic deposition extrusion laser deposition electron beam deposition silk screening photo lithography deposition electrostatic self assembly high aspect ratio micromachining LIGA formation atomic layer deposition casting stamping or a combination thereof.

In certain embodiments the sorbent material is one or more of zeolites porous glass porous carbon metal organic framework materials microporous polymers and clay.

Suitable valve s for use in the disclosed systems include but not limited to bonnet valves gate valves check valves Tesla valves and diode valves any which may be operated manually or through electromechanical solenoidal pneumatic or hydraulic mechanisms.

Suitable thermal insulating layers for use in the disclosed systems include but are not limited to materials with thermal conductivity less than 0.5 W m K such as dense or foamed polymers ceramics fiberglass concentric layers with evacuated interstices and reflective foils. The thermal insulating layer may refer to a material applied to a surface to provide thermal insulation a vessel or dewar configured to provide thermal insulation or a combination thereof. In certain embodiments the thermal insulating layer is polystyrene.

Suitable gases for use in the disclosed systems include but are not limited to hydrocarbon gases e.g. natural gas methane hydrogen dichlorosilane hydrogen chloride sulfur dioxide and industrial gases that decompose above room temperature. The foregoing examples of pressurizing and storing methane and hydrogen on carbon and metal organic sorbents can be extended to other gases and sorbents. The method of sorption pumping at low temperatures is especially useful for gases that decompose at higher temperatures that generally accompany direct mechanical compression. Examples of thermally unstable gases that may decompose in mechanical compressors are NH Cl SiHCl HBr NO and SO. Thus the disclosed systems and methods are suited to integrated pumping and storage of diverse gases that are unstable uneconomical or unsafe to pump by mechanical compression.

The disclosed systems can provide for a transfer gas from a source to a tank at fill pressures below 3 MPa. The systems can transfer gas from a source to a tank at fill pressures less than or equal to 2 MPa less than or equal to 1 MPa less than or equal to 0.9 MPa less than or equal to 0.8 MPa less than or equal to 0.7 MPa less than or equal to 0.6 MPa less than or equal to 0.5 MPa less than or equal to 0.4 MPa less than or equal to 0.3 MPa less than or equal to 0.2 MPa or less than or equal to 0.1 MPa.

In another aspect disclosed are methods for filling tanks e.g. natural gas fuel tanks from a source of gas. The methods include cooling a sorbent opening a valve to transfer gas by physisorption regulating the sorbent temperature to achieve the desired degree of filling closing the valve connecting to the gas source and warming the tank sorbent and gas to provide a predetermined pressure at room temperature e.g. about 20 C. to about 26 C. .

Referring to in certain embodiments a disclosed method includes opening the valve after cooling the sorbent with the cooled surface to a temperature that facilitates gas sorption continuing cooling to remove the enthalpy of sorption from the required quantity of gas closing valve and providing a thermal connection between the conductive surface and a thermal bath at ambient temperature. The pressure in the tank will thereby increase to a value implied by the isotherm at that ambient temperature.

The disclosed systems can be manufactured by for example packing sorbent material around an array of thermally conductive tubing through which heat transfer fluid may be introduced. The composite block can then be wrapped in an epoxy impregnated carbon fiber blanket with a fitting that allows independent introduction of gas and heat transfer fluid to the sorbent and heat transfer manifold respectively. The shape and thickness of the carbon fiber composite blanket can be optimized to ensure integrity of the vessel and fit of the tank into allocated space on a vehicle generator or other platform that requires gas.

Another method of manufacture can start with an aluminum or titanium vessel that is equipped with a flange and filled with sorbent. The tank can be encased in foamed styrene to provide thermal insulation and the flange can be clamped to a fixture that can be heated and cooled to control the metal and sorbent temperatures. Gas can be introduced into the tank through a valve connected to the flange.

A third method of manufacture may start with a composite of sorbent formed over a three dimensional grid of thermally conductive metal wires. The protruding wires can be welded to a thermally conducting metal foil that is thermally connected by welding to a metal mounting flange. The resulting system of flange grid foil can then be encapsulated with polydicyclopentadiene by reaction injection molding and a ring opening metathesis polymerization. The resulting tank can have an arbitrary shape subject only to constraints on thickness related to tank rupture.

