---

title: LED renewable energy lighting unit having a polygonal solar panel configuration about a horizontal or vertical pole
abstract: The present invention discloses an improved renewable energy and rechargeable LED lighting unit having a roadway/street light pole with a polygonal frame member configuration disposed there about. A plurality of solar panels affixed to the polygonal configuration. The solar panels include a plurality of electrical modules that are affixed directly to an interior wall of at least one of the solar panels without interfering with the polygonal frame member when attached. A two-part closure plate arrangement are attached directly to the polygonal frame member and completely enclose and seal the plurality of electrical modules between the frame member and the at least one of the solar panels.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09046235&OS=09046235&RS=09046235
owner: 
number: 09046235
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140812
---
This instant application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 864 720 filed on Aug. 12 2013.

The present invention relates to a unique retrofit LED solar and wind powered rechargeable roadway street light with solar panels disposed about a roadway street light pole in a polygonal configuration. This polygonal configuration completely houses the controlling and management system electrical modules therein and being affixed to the interior of the solar panels in a compact manner as a unit that controls and manages the streetlight and a traffic light operation.

In addition the unique LED solar and wind powered rechargeable roadway street light has an improved heat dissipation feature for enhancing and extending the life cycle hours for the LED light source while simultaneously reducing the amount of power energy consumption used.

At the present time there are many different types of traditional non renewable and solar and wind powered renewable lighting systems for general lighting needs to many users such as public private residential commercial and government use. Many of the non renewable and renewable public and private lighting systems commonly utilize commercial power to supply energy for illuminating roadways streets property parking lots athletic fields and the like. It is well known that non renewable and renewable with retrofitted lighting such as those used in roadways streets or security lights can amount to sizable costs over time including substantial initial acquisition and installations costs of the equipment and also the ongoing costs to pay for powering such non renewable and renewable lighting. Note that the lighting source for illuminating roadways streets property parking lots athletic fields and the like as indicated above could be one from the group consisting of high pressure mercury HPM arc lamps metal halide lamps high intensity discharge HID lamps high pressure sodium HPS lamps incandescent lamps fluorescent lamps and light emitting diode LED lamps to name just a few.

These high cost non renewable and renewable lighting systems are known to experience long commercial and utility power outage delays where an affected geographical area is left completely in the dark. This is not unusual for a roadway street town or city commercial or government facilities homes businesses to be left completely in the dark due to the loss of commercial and utility power.

Also there is a need to enhance and prolong the life cycle hours of the lighting source which is shorten by the excessive heat generated over time with no effective way of dissipating the heat in the above mentioned high cost non renewable and renewable lighting systems. This causes a user to spend a lot of money replacing bulbs or lamps often. Also it is noted many of these non renewable and renewable light systems provide very dim lighting.

Therefore there is a tremendous need for an improved lighting device that avoids all of the aforementioned drawbacks and limitations of the non renewable and renewable public and private lighting systems.

The prior art patents recited below discloses wind and or solar powered light apparatuses for self generation of power with information and management systems and having solar panels arranged about a pole having different configurations with at least one patent showing the solar panels being arranged in different polygonal configurations.

Note that these wind and or solar powered light apparatuses take on many different designs and structures which are disclosed and described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 200 904 A 7 731 383 B2 7 976 180 B1 8 007 124 B2 8 029 154 B2 8 350 482 B2 8 588 830 B2 2009 0237918 A1 2009 0268441 A1 2009 0273922 A1 2010 0220467 A1 2012 0020060 A1 2013 0240024 A1 2013 0322063 A1 and 2014 0111098 A1 to name just a few of interest. However they do not singly or in any combination teach the claimed invention.

The present invention discloses an improved solar and wind powered LED retrofit lighting system with plural solar panels arranged in a polygonal configuration about lighting pole for illumination power generation and or for operation of traffic light systems. The polygonal solar configuration includes all of the electrical modules for operating the improved solar and wind powered LED retrofit lighting system which are affixed thereto and completely housed and sealed therein. This polygonal arrangement provides the capability of being scalable in small foot print of a 250 watts solar panel space that will produce from 600 to over 1200 watts from the solar panels. Such is a great benefit for limited land space. It is to be noted that the improved solar and wind powered LED retrofit lighting system with the polygonal solar panel arrangement is known as the Revolutionary Energy Savings Technology hereinafter referred to as REST.

This arrangement allows the improved solar and wind powered retrofit lighting system to produce power for 5 to 8 hours to charge battery banks that is used to power an inverter and power LED street light lamps for 12 hours at night. Also this polygonal configuration will help to greatly reduce the amount of fuel used by a power or utility company to generate electricity and grid power. Also this polygonal arrangement can be installed on utility poles or in a solar farm.

A further aspect of the present invention provides a polygonal frame for securing the required number of solar panels thereto. The frame includes top and bottom plates for closing and completely sealing the polygonal frame. These plates are split in half with semi circular grooves to fit and mate around a utility pole as a unit. A plurality of securing holes and screws are placed about the peripheral edges of the split plates to be affixed to the peripheral edges of the top and bottom of the polygonal frame through securing holes therein.

A further aspect of the present invention provides a pair of C shaped clamps with outward extending flanges there from is attached to the top of the pair of half plates at the semi circular grooves thereof. Note that the C shaped clamps include a semi circular groove to be disposed at and above the semi circular grooves of the half plates. Each of the semi circular grooves of the C shaped clamps includes a sealing gasket disposed and sandwiched therein to seal around the utility pole to prevent any water from seeping around the pole and damaging the electronic components that are affixed to the solar panels. Also each of the C shaped outward extending flanges include a screw opening therein for receiving a screw member there through to squeeze and seal the gasket about the utility pole when the screws are tightened. A tightening nut can be disposed on the screws to tighten the flanges and gasket about the utility pole for always maintaining a tight and effective seal thereabout.

Another aspect of the present invention provides at least a pair of inch mounting plates disposed between at least a pair of mating frame members adjacent to the top and bottom portions thereof. These mounting plates are welded between and along the sidewalls thereof and the frame engaged interior wall surfaces. Each of the at least a pair of inch mounting plates includes a semi circular groove with a first C shaped clamp with outward extending flanges with a securing opening for receiving a screw member. Note that the first C shaped clamps are welded within the mounting plates semi circular grooves. If desired the center of the first C shaped clamps of the mounting plates could receive screw member to further secure them therein.

Also a seam weld is disposed along corner edges of the frame walls to secure them together. At least a backing member is attached to the frame walls by a plurality of peripheral edge screw members.

Note that the first C shaped clamps of the mounting plates are disposed about a utility pole to mate and cooperate with the second C shaped clamps disposed on an opposite side of the utility pole. At least a first sealing gasket is inserted between the first C shaped clamps of the mounting plates and the utility pole to further prevent any water from seeping around the pole and damaging the electronic modules that is affixed to the solar panels. Also the second C shaped clamps includes a center screw hole for receiving a center screw member to be screwed into the utility pole for always maintaining the second C shaped clamps tightly secured about the utility pole and the first at all times as well with the first C shaped clamps of the mounting plates.

Further in according to the present invention a new and innovative heat dissipation design is hereby provided to enable longer operating hours for LED chips.

This new and innovative heat dissipation design includes a polished aluminum basin with an upper outer rim flange at the very top thereof with four corners. The four corners having four right angle aluminum support brackets attached thereto and mounted inside of the polish aluminum basin just below the upper outer rim. In addition the polished aluminum basin is secured to an upper interior wall section of the outer die cast shell with a preferred 5 6 inch aluminum plate being sandwiched there between by a screw through an upper middle wall area or section of the polished aluminum basin through an opening in the preferred 5 6 inch aluminum plate via a molded securing nut and into the upper interior wall section of the outer die cast shell to achieve additional heat dissipation. The aluminum plate has a larger intermediate section with two smaller outward extending ends connected by a pair of incline portions there between.

The new and innovative heat dissipation design further includes a heat sink plate with at least a pair of screw holes at each corner of the heat sink plate to receive the screws. This allows the heat sink plate to seat on top of the four right angle aluminum support brackets to create a large space or inner chamber below the heat sink plate to allow a large volume of ambient air to constantly circulate under the LED chips and vent or transfer heat from the heat sink plate rapidly there from to the large space or chamber above the heat sink plate of the polished aluminum basin.

Also the LED chips are mounted on top of the aluminum heat sink plate secured by a plurality of screws using heat sink compound to help with the heat transfer process from the base of the LED chips. At the bottom of the aluminum heat sink plate a plurality of spaced fins extend downwardly there from into an upper portion of the polished aluminum basin near the bottom rim and secured by screws horizontally and using heat compound to increase the heat transfer from the heat sink plate to the spaced aluminum fins in the middle close to each LED chip. These fins are used to remove heat with ambient air flow in the inner chamber of the polish aluminum basin.

The polished aluminum basin has an open space in the rear thereof and vent holes in the front rear and sides to enable ambient air to constantly circulate ambient air flow from the large space or inner chamber and exit to the outside of the basin and allowing ambient air to flow to the outside through a plurality of vent holes of the outer die cast shell and via a plurality of vent holes in a rear cover. A continuous flow passage formed between the outer die cast shell and the aluminum polished basin to constantly circulate ambient air about the aluminum polished basin to preserve the life cycle of the LED chips.

Additional aspects objectives features and advantages of the present invention will become better understood with regard to the following description and the appended claims of the preferred embodiments with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The solar and wind powered street roadway lighting apparatus is disposed about a utility or street light pole . As shown in a plurality of solar panels with solar cells affixed thereto. These solar panels with solar cells secured to a polygonal support frame C as illustrated in . A top plate with two part halves and are secured to the top of the polygonal support frame C by screw members .

Note that the solar panels with the solar cells can comprise a plurality of photovoltaic cells such as a thin film photovoltaic material attached thereto.

A side wall portion extending downward into a flange member that abuts flange member of the U shaped brace member to secure them together with screw members . This will bolt the wind turbine and the U shaped brace member together as a unit. The support surface has a pair of sides and a front end face . The side wall portion decreases in thickness from the flange to the front end .

The utility pole mounting pipe is secured into the space that is closed by the lighting unit by cover member at the rear end thereof. A forward portion of the lighting unit has side wall portions lens and the camera with the camera eye . Further details of the lighting unit will be discussed later in .

Referring to this illustrates the back solar panel with solar cells mounted to the polygonal frame by the plurality of screws . The top two part plate halves and are secured to polygonal frame . Also the two part plate halves and include a pair of C shaped brackets and at the top thereof and being secured thereto by a weld means. Elements and receive screw for securing the C shaped brackets and about the opening .

Note that screw openings receives screw members to secure the top and bottom plate halves and and the back frame plate thereto.

Second C shaped clamps with outward extending flanges are disposed about the utility street roadway pole that receives screws through screw openings and held into abutting engagement with the first. C shaped clamp flanges . Also the second C shaped clamps include semi circular grooves therein for receiving the utility street roadway pole with the top second C shaped clamp having a second sealing disposed therein to prevent any water from leaking along the utility street light pole and into the polygonal frame housing and causing damage to the electronic modules affixed to the solar panels. Each of the second C shaped clamps has a center screw member that is screwed into the center of the utility street roadway pole to enhance the securing of the second C shaped clamps about the utility street roadway pole .

Also shows an additional sealing gasket disposed between the frame and the solar panel for sealing the sealing components of the solar modules . Screw elements are inserted through screw holes to secure the solar panels and the sealing gaskets to the polygonal frame

A screw hole is disposed near the bottom of the polished aluminum basin to receive screw to secure it to the outer die cast shell through screw opening of a heat transfer and dissipation plate as shown in which will be discussed in greater details later. Elements represent the LED chip circuit board. Note that copper track land is disposed on the circuit board and covered with high temperature white paint for insulation and used also as a reflector. The white paint on the surface of the heat sink plate guards the circuit board against exposure to water and or moisture.

Also the LED chips are mounted on top of the aluminum heat sink plate secured by a plurality of screws which uses heat sink compound to help with the heat transfer process from the base of the LED chips .

In the bottom of the aluminum heat sink plate having a plurality of spaced fins secured by screws horizontally and using heat compound to increase the heat transfer from the heat sink plate to the spaced aluminum fins in the middle close to each LED chip . These fins are used to remove heat with ambient air flow in the inner chamber of the polished aluminum basin

Also the LED chips are mounted on top the aluminum heat sink plate secured by a plurality of screws which uses heat sink compound to help with the heat transfer process from the base of the LED chips .

In the REST LED retrofit lighting system unit is further being branded as the NIGHT STAR which is a pending trademark includes an outer die cast shell with a front portion a side wall portion and a top wall ledge portion with vent openings in a rear lower middle wall portion . The rear lower middle wall portion includes a plurality of vent openings on opposite sides thereof with a camera device positioned there between. The camera device can be represented by a camera eye or lens. A LED lens cover is disposed between the front portion and the rear lower wall portion . The cover is pivotally disposed over the aluminum polished basin to completely close and seal it See .

Also the NIGHT STAR LED retrofit lighting unit has an outer wall portion and an inner wall portion at a rear section of the outer die cast shell which extends and is connected between the rear lower middle wall portion to a rear wall portion . An upper top closed ceiling portion has electronic components affixed thereto. Element represents WIFI RF Transmitter with securing screws and element represents the Camera Power Supply with securing screws . Also element represents the Day Light Sensor Socket and element represents Barrier Strips for interconnecting crimp wire connectors. The element which is the utility pole mounting pipe with wiring connected to utility power at one end and the other end is connected to the barrier strip . The C clamps having securing flanges with securing means for securing the utility pole mounting pipe within the space defined by the upper top ceiling portion . The utility pole mounting pipe is inserted through a rear opening of the rear wall portion and into the upper top closed ceiling portion and secured therein by the aforementioned C clamps and securing means

In a middle portion behind the rear lower wall portion is a flange portion with a locking screw opening for locking a bottom cover thereto See . The cover is pivotally hinged at at a bottom end of the rear wall portion of a rear section of the outer die cast shell that extends between the rear lower middle wall portion and the rear wall portion to close and completely seal the electronic components affixed to the upper top closed ceiling portion therein to protect against damage and moisture. Above the flange portion is an open ambient air space or area see the exploded cut out section of for circulation of ambient air to the aluminum polished basin through an annular space or channel between the exterior of the polished aluminum basin and the interior of the outer die cast shell and an ambient air opening or passage in the rear side wall portion of the polished aluminum basin

A spring type locking latch for latching the lens cover between open and closed positions. Other types of latches could be utilized if desired.

In regards to many of the elements will not be repeated since it would be redundant. Only those elements will be discussed that are not shown in . Note that the polished aluminum basin includes the large space or chamber the annular space or channel between the polished aluminum basin and an interior wall not shown of the outer die cast shell below the top wall ledge portion to circulate ambient air through vent openings in the rear lower middle wall portion and into the large chamber of the polished aluminum basin under the LED chips and around the polished aluminum basin through channel . The ambient air is first entered into a plurality of vent holes disposed in a bottom wall surface portion of the cover and into the open ambient air space see the exploded cut out section of above the flange portion and the rear lower middle wall portion which continues to circulate flow into the annular channel and through the plurality of vent openings in the outer front side wall portion and the outer rear side wall portion and through inner front and rear side wall portions and through outer side wall portions and inner side wall portions into the large chamber to constantly dissipate heat to enhance the life cycle of the LED chips .

Note that the open space as shown in the exploded cut out section of will also allow ambient air to constantly flow into the annular space or channel and through an ambient air passage disposed in the outer and inner rear wall portions and into the large space or chamber . This ambient air flow will flow through and above the rear lower wall portion and the plurality of vent holes disposed therein and through the plurality of vent holes in the front and side wall portions and to enable ambient air to constantly circulate and exit there from to dissipate heated ambient air flow from the large space or chamber to the outside of the basin through the annular space or channel and through the plurality of vent holes in the bottom wall surface portion of the cover and the plurality of vent holes in the rear lower middle wall portion via open space to the exterior of the outer die cast shell to protect the LED chips from damage while simultaneously enhancing their life cycle. It is noted that the open space is also defined by the bottom wall surface portion of the cover and the upper top closed ceiling portion of the outer die cast shell rear section defined by elements and when the cover is closed.

Since the outer rim flange of the heat sink plate is mounted on the right angle aluminum brackets mounted inside of the polish aluminum basin to allow an increase of rapid transfer heat from heat sink plate to the large polish aluminum basin chamber . In addition the polish aluminum basin has a preferred 5 6 inch aluminum plate which can be of different dimensions if desired and sandwiched between the aluminum basin along a top outer surface thereof and into abutting engagement with a top inner side wall surface of the outer die cast shell for additional heat transfer and dissipation to further enhance the life cycle of the LED chips .

The preferred aluminum plate has a larger intermediate section with two smaller outward extending ends connected by a pair of incline portions there between and is secured from the inside of the aluminum basin at an upper wall section thereof to the outer die cast shell at an upper wall section thereof and through screw opening disposed in the intermediate section of the aluminum plate and into engagement with the outer die cast shell by the screw that is first inserted through screw opening of the aluminum basin

Further in the cover will now be described. The cover has an outer wall portion an inner wall portion and upper ceiling wall . The ceiling wall has a plurality of vent openings a Power Supply Module with securing screws a Power Transformer with a securing screw flange and a Barrier Strip See above for details . Element is a locking screw hole for receiving the locking screw to engage the flange locking screw hole for locking the cover closed to the lighting unit .

Referring now to the block diagram of the solar cells are configured by the Solar panel Power Source to provide DC Voltage to the Solar Charge Controller that regulates the charge cycle and connected to the LED Control CTL Circuit Unit this scene occurs when it is dusk and turn power to the LED Street Light Cluster Unit with the arrival of dawn Day Light the control unit will turn off power to the LED Street Light Cluster Unit in the Cobra Head Light Unit.

The LED Control CTL Circuit Unit receives Power from the Battery Pack LED Light Unit which also send Power to the Timer Unit . Power goes from the Timer Unit to the Occupancy Sensor when activated the Occupancy Sensor will send a trigger pulse high or low to activate the Timer Unit . The Timer Unit will then send a high or low voltage control signal to activate the Power Management Circuit to lower the current draw from the LED Street Light Cluster Unit . Also the Grid Power Supply Unit will also supply power to the LED Street Light Cluster Unit which will enable the LED Street Light Cluster Unit to operate with or without grid power.

The Triangle Mount Solar Panels all have Charge Controller . Two Panels have individual charge controller with battery and one have only charge controller connected to the Power Isolator and Power Share Unit .

The Wind Turbine Power Source connected to the charge controller then to the Power Isolator and Power Share Unit .

The Utility Power Source is connected to the Day Light Sensor from Day Light Sensor to the Power Supply Unit to the Grid Charge Controller .

Then the Utility Power Source is connected to the Day Light Sensor from the Day Light Sensor to the Power Supply Unit to Grid Charge Controller and to the Power Isolator and Power Share Unit . This unit uses high speed Blocking Diodes to prevent the reversal of DC Voltage to other in coming DC Voltage from other power sources. The Power Sharing Circuit directs the DC Voltage to charge individual Battery Packs.

The unit has three 3 Battery Packs. Of these three Battery Packs Battery Pack is used to power the LED Circuit Unit Timer Unit Occupancy Sensor and the LED Street Light Cluster Unit for the Cobra Head Light Unit.

The second Battery Pack is used to supply power to the Power Supply Unit which regulate and send power to the WIFI RF Transmitter Receiver Video Camera and USB Ports .

The Third Battery Pack is used to send power to the Inverter to power the traffic and control system. The Grid Tie Inverter shares power from the same battery pack to send power back to the Utility GRID. This unit is scalable with the solar panel battery and LED Light Cluster for the Cobra Head and Shoe Box Lighting.

With reference to the Day Light Sensor Circuit is connected between the utility grid 120 200 VAC and the primary winding of T that is transformer is designed with an auto current and voltage protection that will disconnect the primary winding of T transformer due to higher voltage such that the primary winding is designed to operate at the MOV. This can also protect against high transient voltage or lightening which will trigger the resettable fuse to open and reset with normal voltage operation.

The second feature is the current sensor that is designed trigger the resettable fuse due to short or high current draw on the secondary winding of T .

The LED CTL AUTO SW CIRCUIT also have high voltage and high current sensing circuit protection with the DC Voltage and current the auto resettable fuse will disconnect if there is a short in the secondary. The Camera Power Unit also has the same protection.

While the foregoing written description of the invention enables one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use what is considered presently to be the best mode thereof those of ordinary skill will understand and appreciate the existence of variations combinations and equivalents of the specific embodiment method and examples herein. The invention should therefore not be limited by the above described embodiments and examples but by all embodiments and methods within the scope and spirit of the invention as claimed.

