---

title: System and method for enabling pseudonymous lifelike social media interactions without using or linking to any uniquely identifiable user data and fully protecting users' privacy
abstract: A quasi-identity system and methods of operating the same are described. The quasi-identity system may be deployed as a mobile application, website, or Application Programming Interface (API) at which users thereof are allowed to share opinions and other information with one another without ever having to expose their true identity or a reference thereto (e.g., email address, phone number, etc.). Thus, users of the website never have to concern themselves with the potential loss of private information and can, therefore, share their opinions more freely.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591097&OS=09591097&RS=09591097
owner: 
number: 09591097
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20141118
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 905 825 filed on Nov. 18 2013 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure is generally directed toward mobile application or website operations and more particularly toward operating a mobile application or website that enables pseudonymous interactions.

To track online users and target them for marketing and advertising purposes current social networks such as Facebook Google Twitter and LinkedIn all favor real identity paradigms associated with privacy controls. The problem with real identity is that there is always a risk that a user s personal data may be sold leaked intentionally or by error hacked or subpoenaed by the government and that the privacy controls in the end don t control anything.

Even with the advent of newer systems based on online personas fake personas avatars or aliases these systems always establish a link between the online personas or avatars and the uniquely identifiable data of their users real identities. As a result even with such systems based on online personas users privacy can also be easily jeopardized it only takes one keystroke error one hacker or one government subpoena to access the database of online personas or avatars and retrieve associated users real identities.

To determine users identities current social networks such as Facebook Google Twitter and LinkedIn use two types of identifiers a Direct unique identifiers and b Indirect identifiers.

Direct unique identifiers enable the direct identification of individuals through unique identity attributes such as full name e.g. first name last name middle initial etc. physical address email address phone number social security number and personal photos. These direct unique identifiers offer the easiest way to uniquely identify a person. Just one of these identifiers e.g. a full name a physical address or a mobile phone number will invariably lead to the user s real identity.

Indirect identifiers provide a less obvious way to identify an individual but by combining relevant indirect identifiers it is possible to quickly piece together someone s real identity. Indirect identifiers include such identity attributes as gender date of birth occupation city of residence workplace location at a given time shopping activity friend connections etc. For instance in a small city it will be very easy to determine a teacher s real identity by only knowing the teacher s gender his her date of birth and the school where he or she works. Or even two indirect identifiers may be enough to establish someone s identity for instance an online search with the two indirect identifiers VP of Marketing in company X will also generate a unique real identity.

With direct unique identifiers or via a combination of indirect identifiers current social networks and potential eavesdroppers individuals hackers and government authorities can easily track users identities or derive them thus intruding on users privacy.

Accordingly a need exists for an online solution that does not compromise users privacy the way that current social media platforms do.

It is therefore one aspect of the present disclosure to provide a mechanism for protecting online users privacy. Specifically to protect online users privacy a new form of user identity referred to herein as quasi identity is provided. A quasi identity enables a user that shares enough information about users profiles to engage in meaningful social media interactions but not too much information so as to avoid invading or exposing a users privacy.

In the proposed quasi identity system there is absolutely no way to derive users real identities from their inputted data. This is due to the simple fact that the quasi identity system is built around the notion of identity not built on identity itself. An online quasi identity system as proposed herein can function based on the following inputs 1 one input for a pseudonym 2 a second input for a password and 3 a third input for dynamic life roles also referred to herein as voices . Any user can have multiple life roles or voices and choose to participate in social media using one or several of these voices. Some non limiting examples of voices include user customer student friend co worker citizen hobbyist alumnus roommate advocate creator founder employee homemaker professional consultant contractor parent relative patient partner believer preacher teacher volunteer donor writer team member coach athlete competitor politician trainer group leader manager representative owner boyfriend girlfriend tenant spouse divorcee club member charity member religious participant traveler lesbian gay bisexual transgender Asian Caucasian African American Hispanic Native American etc.

It should be noted that the quasi identity concept is different from an online persona fake persona alias or avatar for which a user builds new online personalities say Alias1 Alias2 Alias3 etc. that are known by the online public as Alias1 Alias2 Alias3. In the case of a quasi identity the user has only one pseudonym say Pseudo and is known by the online public only as Pseudo . Pseudo uses various life roles or voices depending on the context of the social media interaction. It is up to the user to determine which and how many voices she wants to use publicly to communicate effectively while adequately protecting her privacy.

With a quasi identity a person can meaningfully participate in social media without incurring the privacy risks described above. If a person steals leaks or hacks a quasi identity the user s real identity behind the quasi identity is never compromised since real identity direct or indirect identifiers were never entered into the system in the first place. The quasi identity concept is a useful element of a privacy centric social network.

Social voicing as described herein is the act of using various online voices as part of one s quasi identity. An online voice is different from an online persona. A user can have multiple online voices even simultaneously whereas a user can only have one persona at a time. Furthermore online voices like life roles are dynamic and ever changing depending on the context surrounding the user. Online personas on the other hand are fixed and correspond to new simulated identities.

In a privacy centric social network all individuals have a quasi identity defined by a username and one or more online voices. As a result those individuals real identities are kept unknown. However certain public figures and famous individuals by virtue of their very public activities entertainment politics sports leadership roles etc. may want and need to participate in a privacy centric social network with their real identities not quasi identities. In the same way public entities such as companies associations non profit organizations may need to participate with their real identities in the conversations occurring in a privacy centric social network. The fact that in a privacy centric social network some individuals require total privacy using quasi identities while others like celebrities and public entities use real identities is defined as asymmetric privacy . Asymmetric privacy is a new concept since traditional social networks have avoided the co mingling of real identities and non real identities and failed to consider the usefulness of a quasi identity as described herein.

In a privacy centric social network most individuals participate in public discussion under a pseudonym and a quasi identity. The credibility score described herein is a unique mechanism that allows users to gauge the believability of opinions expressed by contributors by focusing on their voices. For instance a user may be very credible using the voices of a mother and an executive but less credible using the voice of a fireman. Traditional social networks have developed different simpler overall reputation scores influence scores and karma scores that usually rely on mathematical formulas such as credibility score positive feedback rec d negative feedback rec d positive feedback rec d

The credibility score as discussed herein is a much more comprehensive and useful approach to evaluating the credibility of contributors voices by factoring in such variables as time as a member voices used frequency of contributions and in what voice length of contributions positive feedback given and received negative feedback given and received distribution of contributions over time abuse reporting first opinions etc. A score of 20 suggests not to believe more than 20 of the claims made by the contributor in a given voice whereas a score of 95 points to a very credible contributor in that voice the theoretical maximum of the credibility score is 100 . For any new member of the privacy centric social network the credibility score is arbitrarily set at 50 indicating that since he is an unknown entity to the algorithmic system he is neither to be believed or not to believed.

In the user interface of the privacy centric social network the credibility score of a member can be directly tied to the level of visibility of her opinions and content. With a high credibility score a member will see her opinions and content highly visible and promoted using a combination of visibility variables such as link rank rich media inclusion such as pictures video links background color font color font size etc. With a low credibility score a member will see his opinions and content less visible and demoted or even hidden in the case of an extremely low score due to abuse report using the same combination of visibility variables.

Users of the privacy centric social network are given the opportunity when expressing their opinions to rate anything using a universal rating system. This system is based on a universal taxonomy i.e. a classification of everything that triggered by one user input the selection of a rating subject e.g. am I rating an article a company a service a product a game or a movie generates satisfaction drivers or variables from a rating driver engine . Users then use these satisfaction drivers to rate the subject of their choice.

A privacy centric social network as disclosed herein may be accessible from anywhere at any time with a single sign on. Users can also contribute opinions to the privacy centric social network anywhere on the Internet via a single sign on. To remain at users fingertips opinions can be generated and made accessible from mobile applications and or Web browsers removed only one click away. The privacy centric social network forms a virtual hypernet that sits on top of the Internet every URL Web page or even element of a Web page can potentially have associated opinions. The privacy centric social network hypernet can be instantly accessed via the camera or the URL QR scanner of a smartphone as well as via Web browsers. Such single sign on hypernet of the privacy centric social network concept does not exist today.

It should be appreciated that users can access opinions or more specifically any content shared over the privacy centric social network via a number of mechanisms. A first way to access the social network contents is to directly interact with the privacy centric social network e.g. via logging in to www.Opinions.com . A second way to access the social network contents or share opinions is via an Application Programmers Interface API that provides capabilities of the privacy centric social network to other websites. For instance a user may provide update or review opinions from www.Opinions.com via a third party website selling objects that have been discussed on the privacy centric social network. An example of a third party website that may benefit from the opinions shared on www.Opinions.com may include www.amazon.com itunes libraries online application stores etc. The third party website may include both traditional websites as well as any mobile services. A third way to access the social network contents or share opinions is to utilize the API via a universal login that is based on the quasi identity discussed above. A user can view update and share opinions on a third party website by logging into the third party website with their universal login based on the quasi identity. A fourth way to access the social network contents or share opinions is to utilize an application developed to interact with the other components of the privacy centric social network e.g. use a dedicated application .

one or more servers connected to a communication network the one or more servers comprising processor executable instructions that when executed by a processor enable the servers to facilitate interactions between private website members wherein the processor executable instructions include 

As used herein the term website members should be construed to include members that employ the services offered by the social media network described herein. It should be appreciated that some of these website members may access such services via traditional website channels whereas other website members may never actually visit a website for the social media network. Instead the services may be utilized via an application running on the members communication device or mobile device via an API or via any other channel described herein. Therefore the term website members is intended to encompass all such members of the privacy centric social media network regardless of whether such members use an application website API or some other channel to exchange opinions with other members.

The term automatic and variations thereof as used herein refers to any process or operation done without material human input when the process or operation is performed. However a process or operation can be automatic even though performance of the process or operation uses material or immaterial human input if the input is received before performance of the process or operation. Human input is deemed to be material if such input influences how the process or operation will be performed. Human input that consents to the performance of the process or operation is not deemed to be material .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any tangible storage that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example NVRAM or magnetic or optical disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium magneto optical medium a CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM a solid state medium like a memory card any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read. When the computer readable media is configured as a database it is to be understood that the database may be a graph database as described herein. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include a tangible storage medium and prior art recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations of the present disclosure are stored.

The terms determine calculate and compute and variations thereof as used herein are used interchangeably and include any type of methodology process mathematical operation or technique.

The term module as used herein refers to any known or later developed hardware software firmware artificial intelligence fuzzy logic or combination of hardware and software that is capable of performing the functionality associated with that element. Also while the disclosure is described in terms of exemplary embodiments it should be appreciated that individual aspects of the disclosure can be separately claimed.

The ensuing description provides embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope applicability or configuration of the claims. Rather the ensuing description will provide those skilled in the art with an enabling description for implementing the embodiments. It being understood that various changes may be made in the function and arrangement of elements without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

It should be appreciated that embodiments of the present disclosure propose a completely new paradigm for a social network and features available to such a social network. It should be appreciated that the social network and the features described in connection therewith can be provided facilitated by one or more servers. Moreover the features disclosed herein may be provided in other types of social networking platforms that do not necessarily rely on a quasi identity system.

It should be appreciated that the services of the application or website may be made available to users e.g. User A in a traditional fashion e.g. via browser of a communication device using known or yet to be developed web protocols e.g. SOAP WSDL XML JSON REST XLANG UDDI WPS WSFL WSCL Hessian etc. . The services of the application or website may alternatively or additionally be made available to a browser operating on a mobile communication device or to a dedicated application e.g. opinions application operating on the mobile communication device . Moreover the platform used to deliver content from the server s to the devices may include any type of web service framework e.g. Apache gSOAP Java Web Services Development XFire XML Interface for Network Services etc. . Said another way the features and services described in connection with the deployment of a social media network or application or website can be made available to users e.g. User A User B User C etc. using any type of known distribution technology or combination of technologies. Information from the server s may be delivered to the browser using HTML HTML4 HTML5 etc. and or information from the server s may be delivered to the dedicated application using any type of open or proprietary delivery mechanism protocol framework etc.

As can be seen in the server s may also be connected to one or more databases that are used to store and organize information about users including their quasi identification information as well as opinions that users of the application or website have prepared shared rated commented on forwarded viewed etc. The database may be any type of combination of databases known in the art. The database may comprise a SQL or non SQL database and may be hierarchical a graph database a spatial database an XML database a temporal database a real time database or the like.

In accordance with at least some embodiments of the present disclosure the communication network may comprise any type of known communication medium or collection of communication media and may use any type of protocols to transport messages between endpoints. The communication network may include wired and or wireless communication technologies. The Internet is an example of the communication network that constitutes and Internet Protocol IP network consisting of many computers computing networks and other communication devices located all over the world which are connected through many telephone systems and other means. Other examples of the communication network include without limitation a standard Plain Old Telephone System POTS an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a LAN a WAN a Session Initiation Protocol SIP network a Voice over IP VoIP network a cellular network and any other type of packet switched or circuit switched network known in the art. In addition it can be appreciated that the communication network need not be limited to any one network type and instead may be comprised of a number of different networks and or network types. Moreover the communication network may comprise a number of different communication media such as coaxial cable copper cable wire fiber optic cable antennas for transmitting receiving wireless messages and combinations thereof.

The communication device may correspond to a communication endpoint or user device and may be configured for use by one or multiple users. In the depicted example communication device corresponds to a communication endpoint utilized by User A to exchange messages and opinions with other users via the application or website . Examples of a communication device include without limitation a Personal Computer PC a laptop a tablet a PDA a smartphone a thin client or the like.

A mobile device is a specific type of communication device that is designed for mobile use. Examples of mobile devices include without limitation cellular phones smart phones tablets PDAs etc.

As previously mentioned the application or website may correspond to one or multiple servers e.g. a server cluster that are used to facilitate the exchange of user opinions. Although not depicted other servers e.g. servers may also be connected to the communication network although such additional servers may not necessarily be under the control administration of the entity administering the application or website which may also be referred to herein as opinions.com . The application or website may facilitate the exchange of user opinions about content on opinions.com or at other websites. Furthermore the application or website may enable users thereof to exchange opinions about any other topic e.g. current events weather stories books etc. .

In some embodiments there are four tiers of privacy available to members of the application or website . In particular the application or website affords a quasi identity system whereby members do not have to share any private or sensitive information with the application or website to participate therein. A first tier of privacy for members e.g. users is a fully private identity where a single member can create a quasi identity create and request opinions for consumption by other members of the application or website and whose profile is kept completely private e.g. no information regarding the user with the exception of the quasi identity is shared with other members . As mentioned before the quasi identity information and opinions made and viewed by a member may be stored in one or more databases such that they can be referenced and viewed by other members.

A second tier of privacy for members is a semi private tier whereby individual users with quasi identities are allowed to connect with other members. Once connected a connected buddy can have access to some profile information for other buddies. Additionally the connected buddies may further be enabled to share directed communications with one another e.g. directed messages via the servers . While directed communications are facilitated since the members do not share their actual contact information e.g. email phone number etc. there is no provision for sharing directed communications beyond the messaging capabilities of the application or website .

A third tier of privacy for members is a semi public tier whereby individual users with quasi identities are allowed to create and moderate subtopics or new opinion threads. These semi public users still only have to share their quasi identity with other members however their elevation to the third tier may be vetted by an administrator of the application or website and may be predicated upon the member sharing valuable and non inflammatory opinions via the application or website . These types of members may have additional profile information shared with other members but again no exposure of the members true identity email address contact information etc. are shared with the application or website thereby making it impossible for the application or website to share intentionally or unintentionally the information with others.

A fourth tier of privacy for members is the public tier whereby public groups companies public figures e.g. politicians sports stars movie stars corporate leaders etc. and the like share their real identity. This is the one exception to fully private membership but it is based upon the understanding that certain individuals and organizations may wish to share opinions with other members in a public fashion e.g. have a public association with their opinion . Public members have the ability to share some or all of their profile information with other members. Public groups and figures may also have a prime voice belonging to a leader of the organization. This prime voice may be provided with control privileges over the other voices e.g. fellow voices given to other individuals in the organization.

With reference now to additional details of a application or website e.g. opinions.com and the components thereof will be described in accordance with at least some embodiments of the present disclosure. The application or website may be similar or identical to the application or website or combination of application or website and database . The application or website is shown as being connected to a Content Delivery Network CDN service that has one or more CDNs and media . The CDN and media may be made available to users of the application or website in response to requests by the application or website and or members of the application or website . When a member resolves to a particular page e.g. HTML page or content of application or website the CDN service may utilize the CDN to distribute the media associated with the requested page or content. This enables the application or website to operate more efficiently in its distribution of media to its members.

Within application or website there is a data processing portion having a media processing module a batch job processing module a queue service module an activity stream processing module and a translation services module . The application or website is also shown to include a plurality of service modules including a quasi identity service module a real identity services module a credibility services module a publishing services module a search services module an aggregate services module and a relationship services module . The services each include an Application Programming Interface API data and a cache . Some of the services further include token data .

Each API may enable the services to interface with the other components of the application or website . For instance the API of a service may include a set of routines protocols and tools for building software applications within the application or website . An API may express a software component in terms of its operations inputs outputs and underlying types. An API specifies how software components should interact within the application or website .

The data of a service may correspond to the specific data used to provide operate that service and or the data that has been saved in connection with a service. For instance quasi identity services may have data that includes the quasi identities of members of the application or website . Alternatively or additionally the data of the quasi identity services may include data that allows the quasi identity services to provide and maintain quasi identity services for a member e.g. rules for maintaining quasi identities required information for a quasi identity how to store quasi identities how to retrieve quasi identities etc. .

The cache of a service may correspond to a temporary data storage area for that service. In particular when a service is running a routine or operation the cache may be used for temporary storage of data needed to run the routine or operation.

The token data may correspond to another type of data in a service. Whereas the data corresponds to specific data for a service the token data may include authentication data or other data that secures the data from unauthorized use access. For instance the token data may define authentication data in the form of a username password or the like.

As can be appreciated the quasi identity services module may be responsible for providing and managing quasi identity services within the application or website . Any enrollment creation or modification of a quasi identity may be processed through the quasi identity services module .

The real identity services module may correspond to a different module that manages the real identities of certain application or website members. For instance the real identity services module may correspond to a separate module that manages identities for public members and organizations. While operating in a similar fashion to the quasi identity services module the real identity services module should be maintained as a separate module to ensure quasi identities are not inadvertently mixed with real identities.

The credibility services module may be responsible for monitoring the opinion activity of members public and private as well as analyzing the opinion activity of members. As members continue to interact with the application or website and provide opinions consume opinions etc. the credibility services module may define new credibility scores for each member or more specifically each member s voice. Thus each member may have multiple voices and therefore multiple different credibility scores one for each voice. The credibility scores may be relied upon by other members to initially decide whether to read a member s opinion whether to follow connect with another member based on their opinion history etc. The credibility services provides the mechanism for highlighting in a positive way member activity that is deemed positive while minimizing deemphasizing e.g. lowering within lists member activity that is deemed less positive. The credibility services provides a way of enforcing some feedback and control within the application or website even though most members e.g. all private members are providing opinions within the application or website pseudonymously.

The publishing services module provides the capability of the application or website to publish opinions from one member to other members. Specifically a member may provide a single opinion using one of their voices on the application or website and then the publishing services module may make that opinion available to other members or non members .

The opinions may be maintained with certain metadata in the database . As such a search services module may enable the efficient searching of the database to find certain opinions or a set of opinions. In some embodiments the search services module enables members to search for opinions of other members or to search for opinion topics set up by subtopic moderator.

The aggregate services module may enable the aggregation of multiple services or it may provide the ability to perform multiple services at once. In some embodiments the aggregate services module enables the application or website to provide members with multiple service features at the same time.

The relationship services module may be responsible for managing the relationships and or communications between connected members. Specifically when two or more members decide to connect with one another the relationship services module may provide the ability to manage that connection and communications e.g. web based but directed communications between those members.

With reference now to additional details of the application or website and the administration thereof will be described in accordance with at least some embodiments of the present disclosure. The services are shown as being administratable by an administration API and or customer account API . The services may be similar or identical to the services described in connection with with the exception that the identity services may represent the combination of the quasi identity services module and real identity services module . Additional services within the application or website may include a notification service that operates much like a publishing service except that the notification service provides notifications to system administrators via the HTML administrator portal . Notifications of certain activities or opinions may be sent to an administrator in response to various types of data e.g. administration data analytics data and customer account data being processed within the application or website . Customer member activity may be continuously monitored and processed by the data processing via the analytics API and customer account API . Whenever a customer member activity meets some predetermined rules e.g. is deemed inappropriate exceptional etc. as determined by the data processing then notifications may be provided back to the member through the customer application or browser in the form of a report . Alternatively or additionally the feedback may be provided to a system administrator via an interface thereby allowing the application or website employee to take remedial actions if necessary.

With reference now to a process for quasi identity initial registration will be described in accordance with at least some embodiments of the present disclosure. A private individual may register using a quasi identity whereas a public group or figurehead may register using a real identity. The information requested in a quasi identity registration process may include a screen name e.g. pseudonym password and visual test e.g. for password recovery since an email is not being requested . The important thing to note for quasi identity registration is that no identifiable data is requested or maintained for a private member e.g. no telephone first name last name address email address contact information etc. . This is why the visual test is so important because password recovery protocols using email contact information cannot be fulfilled for private members.

On the other hand public member registration requests a screen name e.g. organization name celebrity name public figure name etc. along with the speaker s real name email address password and voices. The definition of voices may include the request for prime voice and fellow voices including speaker voices. This data enables the public member to control its various voices through the prime voice. The quasi identity registration information is provided to a member registration database and a quasi identity database via a data input filter ensuring the required registration information is received but no more .

Similarly the real identity registration information may be provided to a real identity database and the member registration database via a data input filter . The data input filter may be responsible for ensure that the minimum amount of data required for public member registration is received. However additional checks for the real identity may be required to ensure that someone is not nefariously assuming a real identity of someone else. Thus the real identity registration data may be processed by a voices and interest engine and stored within the voices and interests database . Then the data may be merged and analyzed against a real identity checkpoint to see if the real identity registration information corresponds to the real identity of the person. Specifically emails feedback calls or the like may be made to the address of the real person that appears to be registering with the application or website. For instance if a company is attempting to register then known figureheads within the company or Public Relationship personnel within the company may be contacted to ensure the registration is occurring under the direction of the company. Other identity checks may be less invasive. For instance the contact information of the real identity of an organization may be compared with known contact information for that organization or with rules that help determine whether the contact information appears valid. If the real identity checks out as being authentic then the registration information is stored in the databases .

With reference now to a password recovery process will be described for a private member in accordance with at least some embodiments of the present disclosure. As mentioned above the private members do not share their contact information with the application or website which makes password recovery somewhat challenging. Thus the password recovery process entails initially receiving the quasi identity registration information from the member which may be similar or identical to process . If the member indicates that their password has been lost or forgotten step then a password recovery process is initiated whereby a visual test is given to the member . If the visual test is determined to be successfully completed step then the data input filters are updated and a new password may be provided assigned to the member at least on a temporary basis. This updated password information may be stored in the quasi identity database and member registration database . On the other hand if the visual test is not completed successfully then the decision is made whether to try again or abort the process step . If aborted then the process ends. If the decision is made to try again then another or a new visual test is given to the member and the process continues back to step .

Referring back to step if the member has not forgotten their password then the visual test is not required and a member is allowed to login with the application or website. Once logged in the member may update their password information and or visual tests via data input filters .

With reference now to a profile picture anonymization process will be described in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. In particular since private member activity is maintained under a pseudonym there may be a desire to also anonymize a member s profile picture. Thus the process begins with the member providing a selection of facial pictures from blended faces . It should be noted however that no identifiable data e.g. real pictures picture descriptions etc. is uploaded to the application or website. Instead the member is allowed to choose a blended face or picture generated by a face blending engine . The face blending engine may receive pictures from one or multiple face databases and then blend them in a way to produce a non real profile picture. A plurality of non real profile pictures may be presented to the user and the user may be allowed to select a quasi identity profile picture from the plurality blended faces. If a face is selected step then the profile picture is stored in connection with that member s profile in the member registration database . Additionally if the member created a new blended face then that blended face may be provided back to the blended faces database which may be the same or similar to one of the databases . If a face is not selected then the decision is made whether to try the selection process again or abort the picture selection process step . If the process is begun again then the process returns to step otherwise the process is aborted.

With reference now to a method of providing further profile inputs to a member s registration profile will be described in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. The quasi identity can be updated with additional information such as gender information age range information and nearest city information. It should be noted that still no identifiable data is requested in connection with a quasi identity of a private member.

The real identity can be updated with additional information such as organization type founding date home location and other types of information known to be included in real identity profiles. The updated information can be process through appropriate data filters to ensure that that input data is provided in the correct format. Furthermore the data input filter for the quasi identity information may further check the input data to ensure that no private identifiable data is being input. Once processed the input data can be stored in databases and .

With reference now to a process of forming a new opinion will be described in accordance with at least some embodiments of the present disclosure. The process begins when a member public or private begins creating a new opinion . A new opinion may include a topic topic URL topic picture topic upload or some other information that helps identify a point of reference for the topic. The member then selects a voice with which to provide the opinion. The opinion may further include a rating in which the subject of the opinion is rated. The new opinion is then processed by a couple of different engines for distribution through the application or website.

First the opinion is processed through a data input filter to ensure that the opinion meets certain minimum opinion standards e.g. has some content and to ensure that other opinion requirements are met. The opinion data is then processed by a subject and topic engine that uses a subject database and topic database to determine a subject and topic to assign to the opinion either programmatically or based on feedback from the member providing the opinion . Then the opinion is provided to a rating driver engine that associates the rating within the opinion with the subject and topic. The opinion is then provided to a selected rating drivers to formulate a final rating of the opinion along with a final subject and topic for assignment to the member and that member s voice.

The opinion is then feedback to a voice engine that updates that member s voice with the newly added opinion. The voice database is used to determine the selected voice of the member and then assign the newly formed opinion to that selected voice . The opinion along with its selected voce subject topic and rating are then stored in the member database .

Other members are then allowed to view the opinion along with the information associated therewith e.g. subject topic rating voice etc. . Furthermore the opinion can be stored in a ratings database for searching by other members and further rating by those members e.g. a peer review process . Storage of the opinion and additional ratings may be dependent upon the data passing through the data input filters first.

With reference now to a method of requesting a new opinion formulation will be described in accordance with at least some embodiments of the present disclosure. The method begins when a private or public member formulates a new opinion request . The new opinion request may include a top topic URL topic picture topic upload or the like. The new opinion request may further include a voice of the requestor preferred voices for the reply e.g. formulation of the opinion and the opinion request. The new opinion request may be formed by simultaneous access to a subject and topic engine via a data input filter voice engine and opinions request page .

The subject and topic engine is configured to access the subject database and topic database to determine the appropriate subject and topic for the requested opinion. Likewise the voice engine accesses the voice database and or member registration database to determine an appropriate voice e.g. a selected voice for the opinion.

The opinion request page may correspond to the final page created by the member when the request for the opinion is finalized. The opinion request page may then be updated as members provide opinions in response to the request and these new opinions may be provided to the opinions database via the data input filters . In some embodiments only certain members are provided with the permissions to request new opinions on topics. Such moderators of subtopics may earn this privilege by achieving a minimum credibility score within the application or website or by acting as a semi public member.

With reference now to a process for replying to an opinion request will be described in accordance with at least some embodiments of the present disclosure. The process begins in response to a request for a new opinion as discussed in connection with . When such a request is issued the private and public members may be allowed to provide an opinion in a selected voice along with a textual reply attached to the original opinion or opinion request. In some embodiments the reply may again rely on access to the subject and topic engine via a data input filter . The subject and topic engine may access the subject database and topic database to associate the subject and topic with the reply. Moreover the voice s used by the replying member s may be obtained by the voice engine that accesses the member database and voice database to determine the selected voice for the reply.

Once formulated by a member the reply can be stored in a replied database . The reply can be maintained as either a public or private reply . A public reply corresponds to a reply made by a member and viewable by all other members. A private reply may be maintained privately e.g. viewable by only the private member that created the reply the requestor of the opinion and members connected to the private member that created the reply . In other embodiments even the private member s reply is made available publicly as a reply to the original request for opinions. It should be noted that a public or private reply may refer to the public or private nature of the communication and not necessarily the private or public nature of the senders or recipients. In other words a pseudonymous member can reply publicly or privately to an opinion regardless of whether he is a private member or a public figure.

With reference now to a process of computing and maintaining credibility scores with the application or website will be described in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. As multiple inputs are received from members public or private over time the credibility score for that member may be adjusted. In some embodiments a member may start with a predetermined and neutral credibility score say 50 out of 100 . As member activity occurs the member s credibility score may be increased e.g. given a higher credibility score within the application or website or decreased e.g. given a lower credibility score within the application or website . A member s credibility score may be stored in association with a member s profile information such that it is published with any opinions or requests for opinions produced by that member.

As shown in a number of factors may be considered when determining whether to increase or decrease a member s credibility score. Non limiting examples of such factors include abuse reports against the member time as a member statistics for replies opinions and opinion requests topic selections engagement statistics voice statistics positive negative feedback distributions abuse reporting from member and followers following activity. These factors can be used by a credibility score engine to update a member s credibility score and then store that updated credibility score in the member database and a voice database for that member.

In the foregoing description for the purposes of illustration methods were described in a particular order. It should be appreciated that in alternate embodiments the methods may be performed in a different order than that described. It should also be appreciated that the methods described above may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in sequences of machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a machine such as a general purpose or special purpose processor GPU or CPU or logic circuits programmed with the instructions to perform the methods FPGA . These machine executable instructions may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums such as CD ROMs or other type of optical disks floppy diskettes ROMs RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other types of machine readable mediums suitable for storing electronic instructions. Alternatively the methods may be performed by a combination of hardware and software.

Specific details were given in the description to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. For example circuits may be shown in block diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances well known circuits processes algorithms structures and techniques may be shown without unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments.

Also it is noted that the embodiments were described as a process which is depicted as a flowchart a flow diagram a data flow diagram a structure diagram or a block diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process many of the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition the order of the operations may be re arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a method a function a procedure a subroutine a subprogram etc. When a process corresponds to a function its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling function or the main function.

Furthermore embodiments may be implemented by hardware software firmware middleware microcode hardware description languages or any combination thereof. When implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode the program code or code segments to perform the necessary tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as storage medium. A processor s may perform the necessary tasks. A code segment may represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a module a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. may be passed forwarded or transmitted via any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

While illustrative embodiments of the disclosure have been described in detail herein it is to be understood that the inventive concepts may be otherwise variously embodied and employed and that the appended claims are intended to be construed to include such variations except as limited by the prior art.

