---

title: Environment and methods for fostering action sport competition
abstract: Through the competition-fostering platform, users may search for action sports activities using a number of search criteria and rate other users' (e.g., competitors) uploaded media clips found in the search results. Such a platform may rank users based on a variety of parameters and award prizes to users for their activity. The platform may also provide vendors and other sponsors a medium by which they can provide users with awards, sponsor competitions, and promote their own organization.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738722&OS=08738722&RS=08738722
owner: Tricky, LLC
number: 08738722
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140131
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of and incorporates herein by reference in its entirety U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 831 548 filed Jun. 5 2013. This application also claims priority to and the benefit of and incorporates herein by reference in its entirety U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 844 071 filed Jul. 9 2013.

Traditional methods of sharing an action sports clip with fellow athletes electronically involve capturing a video recording a live performance of an individual s performance transferring the video clip to a personal computer and uploading the video clip to the Internet. Current methods and systems for sharing an action sports clip electronically do not provide a platform for athletes to upload video recordings of their performance and compete against each other by comparing each athlete s respective performance.

In one aspect the present disclosure describes a method including receiving over a network from a remote computing device a member submission including a video including an action sport activity location information identifying a location of video capture member identifying information and an identification of the action sport activity providing to a number of members network based access to reviewing the video. The method may include providing a control configured upon selection to submit a rating associated with the video. The network based access may be provided based upon one or more of a location identification received from a respective member of the number of members. The method may include identifying a geographic location within a predetermined range of the location of video capture a member identification received in relation to the member submission of two or more particular members of the number of members an activity identification received from a respective member of the number of members. The method may include identifying the action sport activity and a competition identification received from a respective member of the number of members where the member submission was submitted in relation to a competition identified by the competition identification. The method may include receiving from at least a subset of the number of members responsive to providing access to reviewing the video a respective rating. The method may include determining by a processor of a computing device based upon a number of ratings received from the subset of the number of members an overall rating. The method may include accessing by the processor one or more additional member submissions where the one or more additional member submissions share at least one of the location of video capture the competition identification and the activity identification. The method may further include identifying by the processor from the member submission and the one or more additional member submissions a highest rated member submission.

In some embodiments the method includes applying an indication of rank to a member account associated with the highest rated member submission. The action sport activity may be a skateboard trick. The competition may be associated with a sponsor. The location information may include GPS data. The number of members may include at least one team of members.

In some embodiments accessing the one or more additional member submissions includes accessing a competing member submission where the member submission and the competing member submission correspond to a competition between members of an action sports activity community. Prior to receiving the member submission a first member associated with the member submission may be identified. Similarly a second member associated with the competing member submission may also be identified prior to receiving the member submission. The first member and the second member may be identified based on one or more of a geographic region an age range a skill level and an indication of interest in participation in randomly selected competition.

The features and advantages of the present disclosure will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify corresponding elements throughout. In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements.

The methods systems and apparatus described herein are not limited to the specific devices methods applications conditions or parameters described and or shown herein. It is to be appreciated that certain features of the methods systems and structures described herein are described in the context of separate embodiments and may be provided in any combination or sub combination of the embodiments described herein. Furthermore any reference to values stated in ranges includes each and every value within that range.

The present disclosure presents systems and methods and apparatus for an online platform that fosters an action sports competition. Action sports in some examples may include skateboarding snowboarding skiing BMX biking aggressive rollerblading motorcross surfing weightboarding wakeboarding waterskiing basketball stunts X games snowmobiling billiard tricks and or ping pong. Individual athletes may desire to participate in such an online platform for a particular action sports activity that allows the athletes to upload media documenting their action sport performance. The online platform may enable the user to participate in an online competition against other users of the same sport. Other platform users may judge rate rank comment on like or otherwise promote or demote a particular competitor within the competition. The user feedback may be used to rank the competitors for example to determine a winner of a head to head or team to team competition or to determine a top rated competitor by category e.g. age range skill level geographic location sport activity etc. .

Through the competition fostering platform users e.g. platform members may search for action sports activities using a number of search criteria and to rate other users e.g. competitors uploaded media clips found in the search results. Such a platform may rank users based on a variety of parameters and award prizes to users for their activity. The platform may also provide vendors and other sponsors a medium by which they can provide users with awards sponsor competitions and promote their own organization.

Illustrated in is a diagram of an exemplary system that provides a platform to foster such an action sport competition. A mobile computing device may be in communication with a server via a network for sending and receiving action sport platform information via an action sport application executing upon the mobile computing device . The action sport application enables a user to provide action sport related video recordings to the server and to review video recordings uploaded to the server by other member of the action sport competition fostering platform. Additionally members are provided the opportunity to rate rank comment on like promote or otherwise provide feedback related to action sport activities video recorded by other members of the action sport competition fostering platform. For example member mobile devices and may be in communication with the action sport application engine and optionally the action sport application via network to review video recordings and provide feedback.

In some embodiments action sport application engine executing upon the server performs the backend processes required by action sport application . Action sport application executed on mobile computing device may send data to and receive data from action sport application engine on server . In some embodiments backend processes required by action sports application are jointly performed by mobile computing device and by action sport application engine on server .

In some implementations the action sport competition fostering platform includes support for vendor initiated competition. For example a vendor e.g. sponsor consumer product company sporting organization or other entity may initiate a competition within the action sport competition fostering platform. The competition for example may include prizes or other rewards for a winner. In some implementations the greater member community is provided the opportunity to provide the feedback used to identify a user of a competition. In other implementations particular judges are identified for providing feedback related to each competitor of the competition. As illustrated to manage the competition a vendor engine e.g. a software application and or application portal provided by the action sport competition fostering platform for vendor competition initiation and management of a server is in communication with action sport application engine and or action sport application via network .

The user of mobile device may record his action sport activity using one or more peripheral features of the mobile computing device . In some examples the peripheral features may include a video recording feature a camera feature and an audio recording feature . The peripheral features in some examples may refer to one or more built in input devices e.g. microphone complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS active pixel sensor camera on a chip etc. firmware or software installed upon the mobile computing device for managing the functionality of the built in input devices and or one or more applications installed upon the mobile computing device or built into the operating system of the mobile computing device for interfacing with built in and or tethered e.g. via Bluetooth RFID USB or other physical or logical connection input devices. For example a video recording feature may include coordination of hardware software and or firmware components to record moving images. Additionally in some embodiments the video recording feature may include coordination of hardware software and or firmware components to record an audio track associated with the moving image. In other embodiments the audio record feature may be invoked for recording the audio track as well as for recording an audio only file. In some embodiments rather than providing a separate video recording feature the camera feature may include coordination of hardware software and or firmware components to record both moving and still images.

To enable sharing of action sport activity related media using one of the peripheral features in some embodiments the action sport application makes a call to one or more peripheral device application programming interfaces APIs such as in some examples a video capture API an image capture API and an audio capture API . In some embodiments a one to one correlation exists between the peripheral device APIs and the peripheral device features . For example the video capture API may provide one or more commands for launching the video recording feature the image capture API may provide one or more commands for launching the camera feature and the audio capture API may provide one or more commands for launching the audio record feature . In some embodiments one or more APIs may exist to access a single peripheral device feature . For examples a moving image capture API not illustrated may be used to invoke the video record feature without corresponding audio track while the video capture API may be used to invoke the video record feature with corresponding audio track. Conversely in some embodiments one API may exist to invoke two or more peripheral device features . For example the video capture API may be used to invoke the video record feature to record a moving image portion of a multimedia recording as well as the audio record feature to record the audio portion of a multimedia recording.

In some embodiments one or more of the peripheral device APIs may be provided within the action sport application . A user may download and install the action sport application for example from an application store available via the network . In some embodiments one or more of the peripheral device APIs may be provided in the operating system of the mobile computing device for example to allow applications to interface with various features of the mobile computing device .

Upon obtaining data via one of the peripheral device features the action sport application in some embodiments may provide an interface for automatic upload of captured data. In some embodiments an API for automatic upload may format and relay data to a designated upload address accessible via the network . For example the automatic upload API may automatically adjust a file size of a rich media file and direct the captured data to action sport application engine . In some embodiments the action sport application may interface with an upload API provided by the action sport application server .

Action sport application engine in some embodiments stores the captured data in a media storage device . The media storage device in some examples may include one or more memory devices included within the action sport application server and or in communication with action sport application server . As illustrated the media storage device includes a set of image files a set of video files and a set of audio files . The media storage device in some embodiments may store information regarding captured data. In some examples information regarding data captured by the mobile device may include user member account information an identifier associated with the action sport application installed upon the mobile device or device information associated with the mobile device as well as a time stamp a date a location e.g. geolocation data region information etc. and or an indication of a particular action sport activity. In some embodiments information regarding captured data may be included within a meta data portion of a rich media file for example a particular image file a particular video file or a particular audio file . In some embodiments the action sport application server may maintain a database of information regarding stored rich media files . For example a particular member identifier or device mobile application identifier may be associated with two or more rich media files .

In some embodiments the action sport application server may reformat the captured file into a standard format prior to storage for example for comparison or storage size purposes. In some examples a rich media file may be compressed appended with meta data or otherwise adjusted prior to storage on the media storage device .

In some embodiments upon success of upload of the captured file the action sport application server may communicate with one or both of the action sport application and the action sport engine . For example the action sport application server may receive a request from action sport application to find another user to compete against in a head to head competition. The action sport application server may forward such a request to the action sport engine . The request in some examples may include an age range skill set range geographic region or other limitation specifying demographics of a selected competitor. Upon receiving such a request in some embodiments the action sport engine may determine a follow on request to provide to the action sport application . For example if action sport engine receives a request from the user of mobile device via action sport server to find another competitor for a skateboarding competition action sport engine may make a follow up request to determine which particular type of skateboarding trick the user of mobile device would like to compete for.

In some embodiments action sport application engine may query vendor server to obtain sponsors for an action sports competition. A vendor engine of the vender server may be in communication with a number of different organizations that have opted to sponsor competitions and individual performances on the action sports competition platform. The vendor engine provides a communication pathway between various vendors and the action sport application engine . Although illustrated as separate servers in other implementations both the vendor engine and the action sport application engine may be implemented at least in part upon a single computing device or computing system including multiple processors and or devices e.g. server farm .

In some embodiments vendor engine may be a portal through which vendors elect to sponsor particular competitions. Vendor engine may contain processing circuitry that is enabled to search a database of vendors based on the parameters of the competition conducted by action sport application engine and contact one or more sponsors that have opted to participate in the types of competitions that match the parameters of the competition requested by a particular member of the action sport competition fostering platform e.g. the user of the mobile device . Vendor engine may also contain a payment mechanism by which a vendor may be able to contribute a monetary sponsorship payment for the competition. Vendor engine may be configured to seek multiple vendors for each competition based on the amount of sponsorship funds required for a competition or action sport activity as specified by action sport application engine in its request to obtain sponsors for a specific competition or activity.

In some implementations the Vendor engine allows sponsors to search through the list of competitions that action sport application engine manages. For instance vendor engine may provide a vendor a vendor interface e.g. graphical user interface web portal web application mobile device application etc. that provides the vendor the opportunity to search for a specific type of competition. Competitions in some examples may be indexed by one or a combination of parameters such as location of the competition amount of money needed to sponsor the competition average skill level of the competitors number of competitors type of action sport activity of the competition etc.

In some embodiments a sponsor indicates a reward to be provided to the winner s or the highest ranked user s of an action sport competition through vendor engine . The vendor engine may be configured to communicate directly with the action sport application and provide reward information. In some embodiments the sponsor may obtain from a user profile maintained by the action sport application engine user information such as a financial repository e.g. bank account online account electronic wallet account or other account information in which to deposit a monetary reward or the home address of a user where a reward can be mailed. For instance once action sport application engine identifies the winner or the highest ranked users that are to receive a reward vendor engine queries the user s information from a user database that can be accessed through action sport application engine . Upon receiving such user information the sponsor can transmit the reward to the user using the obtained user information through vendor engine .

In some embodiments additional mobile devices and may be in communication with the action sport application engine . These additional mobile devices each may also implement the action sport application . In some implementations one or more of the additional mobile devices may access the action sport competition fostering platform via a web application social media network or other avenue for performing functionality similar or identical to that described in relation to the action sport application . Action sport application engine may communicate with mobile device and to create a network of mobile devices that participate in the action sport competition.

In some embodiments some of the additional mobile devices may be used to provide feedback related to the media uploaded by mobile device . Some of the users associated with user accounts accessed via the additional mobile devices may be selected by action sport application engine to compete against the user of mobile device in a head to head competition.

Users of the additional mobile devices may provide feedback through the action sport application executed on device regarding the media uploaded by additional members of the action sport competition fostering platform. For instance mobile device and may include a user interface including controls such as buttons or an interactive touchscreen configured upon selection to provide input to the action sport application running on these mobile devices. Using such a user interface users of these mobile devices may provide feedback regarding the media of other users. Feedback may include ratings based on a numerical scale or may simply consist of a binary e.g. thumbs up or thumbs down rating for the media content. Once the user of a particular media device rates a media content the rating information for that video is communicated to action sport application server and action sport application engine factors the received rating for the video asset to generate a composite score associated with the media e.g. video including an action sport performance .

Action sport application engine in some embodiments ranks users and determines the winner in a head to head competition based on this composite score. For example action sport application engine updates the score for a particular action sport activity for a user of mobile device based on a rating received from an additional media device and updates the overall rating of the user listed on the user profile of the user of mobile device . Action sport application engine may then compare this overall rating or score against that of other users found in the action sport application engine to determine ranks or the winner of a head to head competition. Rankings may be limited to a set of users having similar demographics such as an age range a skill level and or a specific geographic region. For instance action sport application engine may create these rankings for users within a specific sporting arena a specific neighborhood a specific town a specific county a specific state a specific region of the country a specific country and or a specific continent. Alternatively the user of mobile device may be ranked globally against all other users of the action sports application worldwide.

In some embodiments the method begins with user mobile device initiating a connection with an action sport application engine implemented on action sport application server . An athlete may launch a mobile action sport application e.g. such as application described in relation to on his mobile device . Action sport application may connect to the action sport application engine e.g. such as action sport application engine of running on action sport application server e.g. over a network such as network described in relation to . Once such a connection is established the user can log into his account using a user interface on mobile device to connect to his profile on action sport application engine .

In some embodiments a user captures action sport activity media using user mobile device . Once the user logs into his account on the action sport application on his mobile device the user can use the action sport application interface to capture an action sport activity media. Action sport application may make a call to an API to use a peripheral feature of mobile device . For example once the user logs into action sport application he may use the application user interface to capture a performance of his skateboard kick flip trick. In response to such a user action action sport application may make a call to the video capture API to use the video record feature of user mobile device . Once the video is recorded application may store the recorded video in a memory unit of user device .

In some embodiments the user mobile device determines the location where the action sport activity media was captured . Action sport application may make a call to a geolocation API to utilize a geolocation feature of the mobile device to determine the location at which the action sport activity was captured. For instance action sport application may make a call to a global positioning system GPS API on the mobile device to determine the GPS coordinates at which the skateboard kick flip trick was performed. In another embodiment action sport application prompts the user to enter the location e.g. address at which the trick was performed. The user may enter his location using the user interface of mobile device .

In some embodiments user mobile device associates the captured action sport activity media with location information . Once a location has been determined and an action sport activity media has been captured by action sport application action sport application may be configured to tag the captured action sport activity with the location at which the action sport activity was performed. Such tagging allows the captured media to be properly indexed amongst other action sport activities in a database of multiple action sport activities for the purposes of an action sport competition.

In some embodiments user mobile device uploads the action sport activity media to the action sport application server . Action sport application described in relation to may upload the recorded skateboard kick flip video to server . Upon successful upload of this video action sport application may optionally remove the captured action sport activity media from the memory unit of device not illustrated .

At the action sport application server in some embodiments the uploaded action sport activity media may be indexed and stored in an action sport activity database in action sport application server not illustrated . Application sport application engine described in relation to may index the uploaded action sport activity media based on several parameters such as the duration of the uploaded video clip size of the uploaded action activity media name of the athlete performing the action sport activity skill rating of the athlete performing the action sport activity location at which the action sport activity was performed etc.

In some embodiments the action sport application server e.g. action sport application engine creates a competition for a particular action sport and allows action sport applications on several additional user devices to participate in such a competition not illustrated .

Once user devices upload action sport activity media submissions to participate in such a competition action sport application engine in some implementations pair users against each other. Such a pairing may be implemented based using a pairing algorithm that takes as inputs several parameters such as athlete skill rating athlete age athlete location the action sport activity of the media submission action sport activity history of the athlete etc. The determination to pair particular users for example may be based in part upon whether a competition request was submitted in relation to the captured action sport activity media.

In some embodiments action sport application server identifies a judge to judge a competition not illustrated . A judge device may be selected by using a judge selection algorithm that takes as inputs several parameters such as athlete skill rating of the judge experience of the user in judging competitions action sport experience of the user user location etc. The judge selection algorithm may also take as input the action sport activity a user has indicated they wish to judge and the competition a user has indicated they wish to judge. In some implementations members of a particular ranking and or seniority are considered for judge selection. For example a potential judge may be identified based in part on one or more of a total number of media uploads a ranking in the particular action sport a ranking in the action sport in a particular geographic region a threshold amount of feedback provided to other members of the action sport competition community and or a threshold positive feedback provided by other members of the action sport competition community for the potential judge.

In some embodiments once a judge has been selected the action sport application server sends the selected judge mobile device a request to judge the competition . For example the action sport application engine of may contact a member of the particular action sport competition community e.g. skateboarding community to judge a competition.

In some embodiments the user of the judge mobile device accepts the judge request received from action sport application server via the judge mobile device causing transmission of an acceptance message to the action sport application server . The action sport application of e.g. implemented on judge mobile device for example may provide a user with a notification that he or she has been selected to judge a competition. The user of the judge mobile device can accept or deny such a request using the user interface of the action sport application presented by the judge mobile device .

In some embodiments action sport application server transmits one or more action sport activity media files to judge mobile device responsive to the acceptance of the judge request from judge mobile device . Action sport application server may transmit or stream an action sport activity media file e.g. over network of to the judge mobile device that the user of judge mobile device has been selected to judge. In some embodiments action sport application server transmits action sport activity media files of all competitors to judge mobile device . The user of the judge mobile device can view all the action sport activity media files and assign a rating to each of the media files. The user may also select a victor upon viewing all of the media files.

In some embodiments the user of the judge mobile device assigns a rating to the action sport activity media and transmits the rating to action sport application server . The user of judge mobile device may assign a rating to each received action sport activity media file using the user interface of judge mobile device . The rating in some examples may be a numerical rating or a thumbs up or thumbs down rating. The rating may also be an indication of who the judge thinks the victor is or an assigned rank of each of the competitors for a given competition.

In some embodiments the action sport application server determines the victor of the competition . If the action sport application server selected multiple judges to judge a competition for example a scoring algorithm may be applied to the ratings received from the various judges by the action sport application server to determine the victor. The action sport application server may accept several parameters such as ratings of the activity captured within each of the action sport activity media files as submitted by each of the selected judges for that competition the athlete skill rating of each respective judge the experience of each respective judge in judging competitions and or action sport experience of each respective judge as inputs to the scoring algorithm. The scoring algorithm may weigh these parameters to determine the victor of a competition.

In other embodiments rather than providing each media file to the judge mobile device the action sport application server enables the judge mobile device to browse the competitors action sport activity media submissions in an action sport activity database e.g. located in action sport application server or in communication with the action sport application server and rate such media submissions.

In some embodiments a vendor server provides sponsorship information to the action sport application server . The vendor server e.g. such as the vendor server of may identify sponsors that would like to sponsor a competition and may connect sponsors with competitions organized by action sport application server . Sponsors may provide vendor server with an indication of the sponsorship that they would like to provide for a particular competition or for a particular type of competition. Vendor server may compile a list of sponsors for each competition and provide that sponsorship information to action sport application server over a network such as the network of . For instance vendor server may transmit to action sport application server the advertisements that a particular sponsor would like to display in the action sport application to all users of the application for a particular competition. Vendor server may also transmit reward information e.g. monetary contribution product information etc. that sponsors provide for the competition to action sport application server . The vendor server may provide this information at any time prior to the judging stage of the competition.

In some embodiments action sport application server communicates the identity of the victor selected by the judges e.g. as determined by a scoring algorithm of the action sport application server to vendor server . For example once the action sport application engine of has determined which competitor has won a competition the action sport application server communicates the identity of the victor to vendor server over network .

In some embodiments the vendor server provides the user of the user mobile device of the identified victor of the action sport competition with an indication of a reward . For example the vendor engine of may compile a monetary reward from one or multiple sponsors to award the identified victor of a competition.

In some embodiments sponsors provide victors with a physical reward such as merchandise. In these situations vendor server may query the action sport application server for the mailing address of the victor. Upon receiving this information vendor server forwards the mailing address of the victor to the sponsor in order for the sponsor to directly provide the physical reward to the victor.

In some embodiments the method begins with receiving a member submission from a first member including a video of an action sport activity location information member information and an Identification of the action sport activity . For example the action sport application server receives a video of a kick flip skateboard trick information about the location at which the kick flip trick was performed the identity of the skateboard user of application on mobile device and an identification of the skateboard trick from mobile device over network .

In some embodiments action sport application server receives a request from an additional member to review a video . The request may include one or more of a location identification member identification activity identification and competition identification. For instance a judge mobile device such as any of devices and of may request to review an action sport activity media file. The request received from such additional members of the action sport application platform may include the location of the additional member or a location preference for media files that they would like to review. The request may also identify which user s media files the additional member would like to review. The request may identify which action sport activity the additional member would like to review media files for. The request may also identify the competition that the additional member would like to monitor or judge.

In some embodiments if the request included a location identification it is determined whether the location identification of the additional member matches the location information received from the first member . For example action sport application server determines whether the skateboarder and the additional member being considered to review the skateboarder s video are both located in the same geographic region. If action sport application server determines that the skateboarder and the additional member being considered to review the skateboarder s video are located in the same geographic region network based access to review the video is provided to the additional member . However if the request did not include location information the method proceeds to make other determinations about the first and the additional member.

In some embodiments if the request included a member identification it is determined whether the member identification of the additional member matches the member information received from the first member . For example action sport application server determines whether the skateboarder whose video is being considered for review is the same person as the user who the additional member has requested to review. If action sport application server determines that the skateboarder whose video is being considered for review is the same person as the user who the additional member has requested to review network based access to review the video is provided to the additional member . However if the request did not include member identification information the method proceeds to make other determinations about the first and the additional member.

In some embodiments if the request included an activity identification it is determined whether the activity identification of the additional member matches identification of the action sport activity received from the first member . For example action sport application server determines whether the video being considered for review is a video of the same action sport activity skateboard flip kick trick that the additional member has requested to review. If action sport application server determines that the video being considered for review is a video of the same action sport activity skateboard flip kick trick that the additional member has requested to review network based access to review the video is provided to the additional member . However if the request did not include an activity identification the method proceeds to make other determinations about the first and the additional member.

In some embodiments it is determined whether the competition identification of the additional member matches the competition of the first member submission . For example action sport application server determines whether the video being considered for review is a video submitted for the same competition that the additional member has requested to review. If action sport application server determines that the video being considered for review is a video submitted for the same competition that the additional member has requested to review network based access to review the video is provided to the additional member . However if the request does not include a competition identification or the action sport application server determines that the video being considered for review is not a video submitted for the same competition that the additional member has requested to review then the method returns to waiting to receive another request from the same or an additional member that would allow for a pairing between a first member submission and the reviewer.

In some embodiments an overall rating for an action sport activity member submission media file is determined based upon the ratings received from a number of additional members . For example action sport application server may receive ratings for the same member video submission from multiple reviewers. Once action sport application server has received all of the reviewer s ratings action sport application server may calculate an overall rating for action sport activity member submission media file using a scoring algorithm. The action sport application engine may take several parameters such as the athlete skill rating of the reviewer the experience of the user in reviewing media submissions action sport experience of the reviewer as inputs to a scoring algorithm.

In some embodiments one or more additional member submissions that are relevant to the member submission are determined based on one or more of location identification competition identification and activity identification . For example action sport application server may compare the first member submission against other members submissions. The action sport application server may have already performed at least a portion of the steps and to rate additional member submissions.

In some embodiments a highest rated member submission from the member submission and the one or more additional member submissions is determined . For example action sport application server may compare the overall ratings for the member submissions and rank them member submissions by overall ratings. Action sport application server may store the rankings in the profile of the members submitting the member submissions.

Although described in relation to a particular series of steps in some implementations the method may include more or fewer steps. In some implementations one or more of the steps of the method may be arranged in a different order. Other modifications of the method are possible without deviating from the concepts and scope of the method .

Geolocation interface includes a hotspot finder control . When hotspot finder control is selected by the user of the mobile device map may be populated with hotspot indicators in the region of the map displayed on geolocation interface . Geolocation interface includes a current location control . When current location control is selected by the user of mobile device a current location indicator marking the current location of the mobile device is overlaid on map .

Turning to the profile synopsis bar the present user is presented with a series of controls including a clips control with an indication of number of clips uploaded by the present user e.g. 15 a competitions control with an indication of number e.g. 6 of competitions the present user has been involved in e.g. won placed participated currently active in etc. a spots control with an indication of a number of spots e.g. 18 related to the user e.g. spots where the user competed judged uploaded a clip corresponding to etc. a followers control indicating a number of users following the activities of the present user e.g. 3 and a following control indicating a number of users the present user is following e.g. .

Beneath the profile synopsis bar the upload region includes a trick synopsis pane providing details of a member submission of an action sport activity e.g. skateboarding trick uploaded by the present user and an add a new trick control for upload of a new member submission e.g. similar to upload button described in relation to . The trick synopsis pane for example includes an image e.g. still image animated image video image etc. of the action sport activity a win indication of the action sport activity e.g. number of wins in various competitions ranking within a competition or ranking win in view of member feedback related to the submission a description of the action sport activity e.g. name of the trick a comments control configured upon selection to present member comments submitted in relation to the action sport activity a location indication listing the spot at which the media file of the action sport activity was captured and a date indication indicating the date of the submission e.g. date of media file capture and or date of media file upload . The action sport activity identified within the trick synopsis pane in some examples may be the most recent submission by the present user a submission presently involved in a competition the most popular submission by the present user and or the most recently commented on submission by the present user. In other implementations additional trick synopsis panes may be presented to the user e.g. by scrolling through the interface including a number of submissions presented by the user.

Beneath the trick synopsis pane the notifications region includes a new follower notification . Follower Will Bater identified within the notification region for example may be included in the number of followers identified in relation to the followers control above.

Turning to a screenshot of a comments interface of an action sport competition software application such as the action sport application as described in relation to is illustrated. The comment interface for example may be presented upon selection of the comments control described in relation to from within the news feed interface .

Beneath the trick synopsis pane a comments pane presents a series of member comments . Additionally a comment dialogue includes a comment entry field for responding to one or more of the member comments.

As illustrated above the trick synopsis pane a member submission pane presents controls for identifying information related to a new member submission of an action sport activity. For example a text entry field is configured to accept a name and or brief description of the action sport activity. A location interface presents location information associated with the action sport activity including an address and a map preview. The location presented within the location interface for example may include a default location such as the location of the mobile device at the time of presentation of the upload interface . In some implementations the location is automatically identified by querying the mobile device for GPS coordinates. An override control when selected may allow the user to modify the location information. For example if the GPS coordinates failed to identify the location as McCarren Park the user could enter that information. In another example if the media file of the action sport activity was captured at a different location e.g. at an earlier time the user may enter an entirely different address.

An upload control upon selection provides the user with an interface to upload and optionally capture a media file of an action sport activity. For example a new interface may include a file browser or thumbnail images of available media files for upload.

As indicated beneath the followers control the present user has three followers. Each of the three followers are presented within individual follower synopsis panes . The follower synopsis panes for example include an identification of the follower e.g. thumbnail image name as well as a profile synopsis including selectable controls related to submissions competitions locations followers and followings.

A competition pane presents information related to a particular competition such as a name or brief description of an action sport activity an image e.g. sponsor logo illustration of the action sport activity etc. a number of competitors e.g. and a deadline for participation.

Additionally a locations control upon selection presents the user with a number of locations e.g. where various competitors have captured media files of the action sport activity . The locations for example may be presented as a number of pins upon a map interface such as the map illustrated in .

Beneath the locations control a series of competitor synopses identify the competitors or a portion thereof e.g. top three . The competitor synopses in some implementations are arranged in ranked order e.g. according to a number of votes column .

In some implementations the present user is provided the opportunity to vote for one or more competitors . For example a voting control column contains controls which upon selection allow the present user to vote for a particular competitor. As illustrated the voting control associated with the present user e.g. Nick Brown is illustrated as being not available for selection e.g. grayed out either because Nick Brown already voted for himself or because a competitor is not allowed to vote for himself.

As shown in an embodiment of an exemplary cloud computing environment for fostering action sport competition is provided. The cloud computing environment may include one or more resource providers collectively . Each resource provider may include computing resources. In some embodiments computing resources include any hardware and or software used to process data. For example computing resources may include hardware and or software capable of executing algorithms computer programs and or computer applications. In some embodiments exemplary computing resources include application servers and or databases with storage and retrieval capabilities. Each resource provider may be connected to any other resource provider in the cloud computing environment . In some embodiments the resource providers are connected over a computer network . Each resource provider may be connected to one or more computing device collectively over the computer network .

The cloud computing environment may include a resource manager . The resource manager may be connected to the resource providers and the computing devices over the computer network . In some embodiments the resource manager facilitates the provision of computing resources by one or more resource providers to one or more computing devices . The resource manager may receive a request for a computing resource from a particular computing device . The resource manager may identify one or more resource providers capable of providing the computing resource requested by the computing device . The resource manager may select a resource provider to provide the computing resource. The resource manager may facilitate a connection between the resource provider and a particular computing device . In some embodiments the resource manager established a connection between a particular resource provider and a particular computing device . In some embodiments the resource manager redirected a particular computing device to a particular resource provider with the requested computing resource.

The computing device includes a processor a memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to the memory and multiple high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to a low speed expansion port and the storage device . Each of the processor the memory the storage device the high speed interface the high speed expansion ports and the low speed interface are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as a display coupled to the high speed interface . In other embodiments multiple processors and or multiple buses are used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In some embodiments the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In some embodiments the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In some embodiments the storage device is or contains a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. Instructions can be stored in an information carrier. The instructions when executed by one or more processing devices for example processor perform one or more methods such as those described above. The instructions can also be stored by one or more storage devices such as computer or machine readable mediums for example the memory the storage device or memory on the processor .

The high speed interface manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed interface manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is an example only. In some embodiments the high speed interface is coupled to the memory the display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to the high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the embodiment the low speed interface is coupled to the storage device and the low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . Alternatively components from the computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as a mobile computing device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of the computing device and the mobile computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

The mobile computing device includes a processor a memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The mobile computing device may also be provided with a storage device such as a micro drive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the processor the memory the display the communication interface and the transceiver are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the mobile computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the mobile computing device such as control of user interfaces applications run by the mobile computing device and wireless communication by the mobile computing device .

The processor may communicate with a user through a control interface and a display interface coupled to the display . The display may be for example a TFT Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may provide communication with the processor so as to enable near area communication of the mobile computing device with other devices. The external interface provides for example for wired communication in some embodiments or for wireless communication in other embodiments and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the mobile computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. An expansion memory may also be provided and connected to the mobile computing device through an expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. The expansion memory may provide extra storage space for the mobile computing device or may also store applications or other information for the mobile computing device . Specifically the expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example the expansion memory may be provide as a security module for the mobile computing device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of the mobile computing device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory non volatile random access memory as discussed below. In some embodiments instructions are stored in an information carrier. The instructions when executed by one or more processing devices for example processor perform one or more methods such as those described above. The instructions can also be stored by one or more storage devices such as one or more computer or machine readable mediums for example the memory the expansion memory or memory on the processor . In some embodiments the instructions can be received in a propagated signal for example over the transceiver or the external interface .

The mobile computing device may communicate wirelessly through the communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. The communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls Global System for Mobile communications SMS Short Message Service EMS Enhanced Messaging Service or MMS messaging Multimedia Messaging Service CDMA code division multiple access TDMA time division multiple access PDC Personal Digital Cellular WCDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access CDMA2000 or GPRS General Packet Radio Service among others. Such communication may occur for example through the transceiver using a radio frequency. In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth Wi Fi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition a GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to the mobile computing device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on the mobile computing device .

The mobile computing device may also communicate audibly using an audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. The audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of the mobile computing device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on the mobile computing device .

The mobile computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smart phone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various embodiments of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various embodiments can include embodiment in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium and computer readable medium refer to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an embodiment of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

In view of the structure functions and apparatus of the systems and methods described here in some embodiments an environment and methods for fostering action sport competition are provided. Having described certain embodiments of methods and apparatus for supporting action sport competition it will now become apparent to one of skill in the art that other embodiments incorporating the concepts of the disclosure may be used. Therefore the disclosure should not be limited to certain embodiments but rather should be limited only by the spirit and scope of the following claims.

