---

title: Methods, systems, and computer readable media for combating device theft with user notarization
abstract: The subject matter described herein includes methods, systems, and computer readable media for combating mobile device theft with user notarization. One method includes providing a supplicant video notarization system application executable on a supplicant device for initiating an interactive video call between a supplicant and a notary as a condition to the supplicant accessing a protected electronic resource. The method further includes providing a notary video notarization system application executable on a notary device through which the notary receives the interactive video call and interacts with the supplicant via the interactive video call to confirm the identity of the supplicant and that video of the supplicant provided in the call is live.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09660995&OS=09660995&RS=09660995
owner: Indiana University Research & Technology Corporation
number: 09660995
owner_city: Indianapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140220
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 767 226 filed Feb. 20 2013 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. CNS 0756998 and CNS 1016603 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The subject matter described herein relates to authenticating mobile device users. More particularly the subject matter described herein relates to combating device theft with user notarization.

Mobile devices including smart phones tablet computers laptop computers e readers mobile gaming consoles or any combination thereof are the mechanism by which humans interact with various services. As the number of services with which humans interact using these devices increases the devices themselves will be increasingly used to store sensitive user information including credit card information identity information and other private information. Because mobile devices are often lost or stolen there exists a need for an improved mechanism for protecting the information stored on the devices.

More particularly there exists a need for methods systems and computer readable media for combating device theft with user notarization.

The subject matter described herein includes methods systems and computer readable media for combating mobile device theft with user notarization. One method includes providing a supplicant video notarization system application executable on a supplicant side device for initiating an interactive video call between a supplicant and a notary as a condition to the supplicant accessing a protected electronic resource. The method further includes providing a notary video notarization system application executable on a notary device through which the notary receives the interactive video call and interacts with the supplicant via the interactive video call to confirm the identity of the supplicant and that video of the supplicant provided in the call is live.

The subject matter described herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. As such the terms function node or module as used herein refer to hardware which may also include software and or firmware components for implementing the feature being described. In one exemplary implementation the subject matter described herein may be implemented using a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor of a computer control the computer to perform steps. Exemplary computer readable media suitable for implementing the subject matter described herein include non transitory computer readable media such as disk memory devices chip memory devices programmable logic devices and application specific integrated circuits. In addition a computer readable medium that implements the subject matter described herein may be located on a single device or computing platform or may be distributed across multiple devices or computing platforms.

The subject matter described herein includes methods systems and computer readable media for combating device theft or any other unauthorized use using a video notarization system. The subject matter described herein can be used to combat theft of any electronic device on which a user stores sensitive information and that has audio and video communications capabilities. Examples of such devices include desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers smart phones e readers gaming consoles and any combination thereof.

The terms notary and notarization service as used herein respectively refer to the individual and the service through which a device user is authenticated. The terms notary and notarization service are not intended to be limited to the traditional definitions of these terms which refer to the individual or service authorized by a state or other entity to witness and attest to signatures.

There are over 4 billion cellular mobile devices in use today worldwide 1 and around one in two American adults own smartphones 2 . It is inevitable that these devices will become the primary portals by which humans interact with services including remote services e.g. banking and healthcare web sites and more local ones e.g. point of sale terminals or automatic teller machines where the device may replace a credit or debit card . Since many of these services will be security critical for the user it is similarly inevitable that mobile devices will be the repository for credentials e.g. signature or decryption keys that earn the supplicant access to these services or to local information e.g. sensitive information downloaded from those services not to mention private text messages and emails .

Because these devices are mobile and nearly constantly carried they are a common target of theft e.g. 228 mobile phones were reported stolen in the UK per hour in 2010 3 . As such it is critical that these devices or the credentials they hold be rendered unusable in the wrong hands. Numerous tools exist to track and remotely erase data on stolen phones but a thief can interfere with these by simply powering off the phone or putting the phone in airplane mode for example 4 . In the absence of tamperproof hardware on the device authentication of the user in a purely local fashion will be unable to protect against reverse engineering the device and extracting the corresponding credentials. Consequently the subject matter described herein provides a means to authenticate the device user as a precondition to the device using the credentials it holds by a remote entity that is out of reach of the attacker c.f. 5 .

There are many alternatives by which this remote entity might authenticate the device user. Passwords or PINs what you know are one option but these secrets are often guessed or stolen. Other solutions involve e.g. biometric recognition by fingerprint or face recognition what you are . However biometrics can require hardware on devices that is not ubiquitous e.g. for scanning fingerprints and some means to ensure that the biometric readings are collected from the live user versus being replayed e.g. in the case of face recognition from a stored video .

The subject matter described herein includes an alternative to authentication based on what you know or what you are in which a notary which in one embodiment is a person in the device owner s social network confirms that the current device user the supplicant is in fact the device owner. To do so the notary interacts with the supplicant by video chat for example. If the notary assents then the use of the device s credentials can progress as usual. However if the notary refuses then the use of the credentials will be blocked even by an attacker with physical possession of the device and the skill to reverse engineer it . Our approach which we call notarization further ensures that the notary cannot impersonate the device owner or his device without physical access to the device. We expect that notarization is suitable primarily for protecting high value data or transactions e.g. transferring or withdrawing bank funds past some limit or decrypting sensitive files e.g. health documents on the device.

Based on this idea we detail the design of VNS for Video Notarization System a device resident application that supports notarization to enable the use of credentials on the mobile device. VNS specifically protects the use of cryptographic keys to decrypt device resident content or to perform digital signatures in support of a connection using client side TLS. Moreover it can support client side TLS connections to web sites from a display computer other than the device hosting it. This usage requires additional software to be installed on the display computer as well which we also describe.

Beyond notarization by someone in the device owner s social network VNS also supports notarization by a stranger using a certified photograph of the device owner. Notarization by a stranger may be of use not only when the device owner s social contacts are unavailable for notarizing but also in cases where specialized notaries e.g. working for a bank may be required to notarize supplicants. While it is known that social contacts such as friends and colleagues would easily recognize supplicants 6 an open question is whether strangers can reliably notarize supplicants. We also report the results of a user study designed to shed light on this question.

To summarize we make at least two contributions. First we describe the design and implementation of VNS which utilizes notarization by video as a method for authenticating supplicants. We demonstrate how VNS can facilitate and protect the establishment of client side TLS connections as a primary use case. Moreover this is accomplished without permitting the notary to impersonate the supplicant and without divulging sensitive information to the notary. Second through a detailed user study we shed light on the effectiveness of using strangers as notaries. Our results show that even with impersonation attacks using sophisticated avatars notarization by strangers can be a viable even if not perfect method for protecting against impersonation attacks.

The remainder of the description herein is organized as follows. In Section II we survey related work. We detail the design of VNS in Section III. We discuss our user study in Section IV. We conclude in Section V.

There have been several designs by which a person leverages others in his or her social network to enable access to resources either to prevent someone who has stolen his device from doing so as we do here 7 8 or to regain access after losing one or both of his authentication factors 9 10 . These works address only scenarios in which the device is used to access a remote resource e.g. a web site unlike ours their designs do not provide protection for on device data. Moreover these techniques require coordination with and changes to the remote resource. In contrast a device owner can leverage our technique without requiring software changes to the remote resource in that the device signatures produced by our design are indistinguishable from ones produced without our defenses. Aside from making deployment easier this also permits the device owner to use our defense unilaterally in a fashion analogous to writing check id in the signature field of a credit card. Finally none of these prior works focus specifically on the use of video chats to enable authentication of the device owner or evaluate the hazards thereof as we do here.

Existing studies in psychology have shown the relative ease with which participants can identify familiar faces and the difficulty they have identifying unfamiliar ones 6 11 12 . These results and intuition suggest that people would have little trouble identifying members of their social network but that using strangers as notaries deserves some careful thought. Pike et al. 13 show that motion appears to aid recognition. However none of the previous studies evaluated the use of interactive video as we do here.

With the increased ubiquity of mobile phones there have been a number of systems that rely on them to help secure web authentication. To add an additional layer of protection against password theft some services provide support for two factor authentication by sending a unique code via SMS which must be entered following input of the usual password e.g. 14 15 . This provides no protection against phone theft however in that case security is reduced to knowledge of the password only. Other systems utilize trusted mobile phones to securely access websites from untrusted machines e.g. 16 17 . While VNS also utilizes a mobile device to support access to websites from an untrusted display computer our focus here is at least as much on protecting against the misuse of a stolen mobile device using notarization by others as it is on defending against display computer compromise.

In this section we provide an overview of the design of VNS. We begin in Section III A with a discussion of the threat model and goals that the system is designed to address. We then give an overview of the system including the user experience in Section III B. We provide selected implementation details in Section III C and discuss limitations of our design in Section III D.

As discussed in Section II VNS is one of several systems that adopt mobile devices primarily smartphones as a means by which users gain access to protected resources be it at a remote web site or on the device itself. A central goal of VNS is to deal with the loss or theft of the device and specifically to ensure that an attacker even one skilled in reverse engineering the device is unable to misuse a device he has captured to access the resources that the legitimate owner could access with it.

Achieving this goal requires a second authentication factor beyond possession of the device. Unlike traditional second factors e.g. passwords PINs or biometrics VNS leverages authentication of the user who for the purposes of notarization we term the supplicant by her social network via video interaction with a notary.

Such authentication will intrinsically incur higher social overhead than a simple password PIN or biometric that can be automatically checked however. Therefore we also require that VNS support second factor authentication by password PIN for other resources and anticipate that users will configure VNS to require video authentication only for more sensitive ones such as online banking. That said we also anticipate that VNS will encourage sensitive resources to be accessed opportunistically i.e. after a video interaction with a notary has taken place for other reasons suggesting that the social overhead of this approach may be less than initially expected.

It is important to recognize that regardless of whether the legitimate device owner is confirmed by way of video interaction biometrics or password PIN the inclusion of device reverse engineering in our threat model requires that this confirmation be performed off the device. A reverse engineer could simply alter the device to remove this confirmation locally. VNS places this control either within the mobile device of the notary or within an intermediary cloud service as will be discussed in Section III C. We will assume in the description herein that this device service is not compromised though we stress that it provably has no capabilities to impersonate the devices it notarizes as discussed in Section III B. Rather its compromise can at worst reduce the supplicant s security to depending solely on the possession of her device i.e. a single factor of authentication.

Protection of resources via VNS is performed by regulating the use of cryptographic keys that are needed to access those resources. Presently VNS is designed to protect the use of keys of two varieties private digital signing keys that can be used to access remote web sites via client side transport layer security TLS 18 and private decryption keys for decrypting either passwords for entry to remote web sites or other data stored locally on the mobile device e.g. emails SMS messages .

As such beyond simply the components for protecting the use of these cryptographic keys VNS involves various other software components to bring the protected resources under its control. For example to digitally sign for the client in a TLS exchange VNS must gain access to the value to digitally sign. We implement this by proxying TLS through a proxy local to the machine on which the browser is being run which need not be the mobile device. This proxy exports the value to sign to the mobile device e.g. over Bluetooth or TCP IP which signs the value subject to controls that will be described later and returns it to the proxy. Similarly in order to protect emails and SMS messages stored on the device we require custom designed email and SMS clients that integrate with the VNS key protection facilities. At the time of this writing we have completed only the components to support client side TLS and local encryption of passwords but not emails and SMS messages and so we will focus on these use cases and particularly the integration of VNS with client side TLS.

Using VNS to support client side TLS is shown in . In the client side of a system for combating device theft using video notarization according to an embodiment of the subject matter described herein is implemented on a supplicant device which in the illustrated example is the supplicant s mobile telephone. also illustrates a display computer separate from supplicant device used to access the protected resource which in the illustrated example is a web site . In step illustrated in access to protected web site is directed supplicant device where a supplicant first selects the URL from a list of bookmarks in an application referred to herein as supplicant VNS application and then selects a computer to which this URL should be displayed from a list of previously registered computers which could include the phone itself or a separate computer . In the illustrated example it is assumed that supplicant selects display computer . Supplicant VNS application first checks to see whether supplicant has recently been authenticated using the technique either password PIN or video chat that the device owner specified for this URL when the URL was entered into the bookmarks. If so in step supplicant VNS application connects to a proxy on display computer and reports the URL indicated by supplicant and the client side TLS certificate that the owner previously indicated for this URL. In step proxy initiates a client side TLS connection to the web site and at the appropriate time in that negotiation in step forwards to supplicant device over the still open connection the TLS message requiring a digital signature with the private key corresponding to the public key in the client side TLS certificate. In step supplicant device returns the signature after taking several other steps that are invisible to proxy described below allowing proxy to complete the TLS exchange. Once proxy has done so proxy communicates to a browser extension to open the retrieved content in a new browser tab and supplicant can interact with the page as normal.

In step of after supplicant selects the URL of the website that supplicant wishes to contact If upon checking whether the user has recently been authenticated as required to use the chosen URL supplicant VNS application finds that he has not then supplicant VNS application initiates the required authentication before connecting to proxy . illustrates exemplary steps for authentication using video notarization according to an embodiment of the subject matter described herein. Referring to in step if the method of authentication required for the selected URL is video chat then the supplicant application prompts supplicant to select a notary to authenticate him from a list of allowable notaries previously configured for this URL by the device owner. In step upon selection of the notary supplicant VNS application establishes a video chat with a notary VNS application on a notary device which in the illustrated example is the notary s mobile telephone. Once the video connection is established in step a notary can indicate or not the authenticity of supplicant . If notary is satisfied with the authenticity of supplicant in step notary VNS application conveys to supplicant VNS application a capability that is valid for a notarization interval of a preconfigured amount of time.

During the notarization interval supplicant device can interact with notary device without interrupting notary in order to perform cryptographic operations. Protocols to force supplicant device to interact with notary device to perform cryptographic operations without permitting notary device to learn the supplicant s private key are well known we employ protocols due to MacKenzie and Reiter 5 19 . Briefly these protocols cryptographically share the private key between the supplicant s and notary s devices and and permit notary device to contribute a partial signature on the message to be signed using its share of the key. Supplicant device can then complete the signature using its share. Notary device cooperates in this protocol only if presented the capability it generated during the notarization process and only during the notarization interval.

Alternative protocols exist that remove the need for an interaction per signature steps in by reconstructing the private signing key at supplicant device for the duration of the notarization interval see 5 . We employ protocols that never recreate the private signing key on supplicant device since recreating the private signing key would allow a reverse engineer who captures supplicant device during the notarization interval to extract it. Moreover the device owner can destroy its authorization proactively e.g. because he is done with his sensitive task by simply deleting the capability if he so chooses to prevent an attacker who then captures the device from making use of the authorization.

The set of possible notaries that the device owner can configure for notarizing the use of a URL includes in addition to members of the device s address book an Anyone option. If a URL is configured so that the Anyone option is available for it and if the supplicant selects this option in order to be notarized then the supplicant s phone contacts a cloud resident VNS service for notarizing the supplicant. In this case the device must forward the selected client side TLS certificate but not its share of the private key of course to the service. Moreover this certificate must have been created to include a photograph of the device owner. We will discuss certificate creation in Section III B4. 

The role of the VNS service is to provide a portal for persons who are interested in notarizing others presumably for pay in a fashion similar to Amazon s Mechanical Turk to be paired up with those needing notarization or to otherwise implement a call center for notarization of device users by trained notaries in the case of a bank for example . In this case the notary is presented with the certified photograph of the device owner and a live video feed of the supplicant. The notary is then asked to confirm that the person in the video is pictured in the certified photograph and that the video feed is live presumably by interacting with the supplicant. If the notary then indicates the authenticity of the supplicant the VNS service sends a capability to the supplicant s device. During the notarization interval for that capability the VNS service will respond to requests to sign messages by producing a partial signature using its share of the device s private key see 19 . The process of notarization in the Anyone case is thus very similar to that in with the VNS service playing the role of the notary s phone.

The process by which a device owner initializes his device for supporting notarization is not particularly complex. Below we describe the primary steps for initialization aside from downloading supplicant VNS application itself .

URLs requiring authorization can be added to supplicant VNS application by manual entry or by visiting the relevant URL in the phone s browser and selecting the Share Page option Android or clicking a custom bookmark iPhone .

A list of possible notaries which the user can assign to URLs manually can be imported from the phone s address book. When a notary is first used a new two party sharing of the relevant private key is established with notary device through a delegation protocol 19 . Before a notary has been established for a key it is important that the key is not stored in whole on supplicant device . Thus the initial two party sharing of each private key is performed between supplicant device and a cloud resident VNS service the same one that facilitates the Anyone option immediately after the key is created. Delegating to a new notary therefore involves this service.

This delegation protocol requires a public key from notary device which can be obtained through an in person key exchange e.g. 20 or simply sent from notary device upon first use i.e. a trust on first use model as is used in SSH . The public key for the cloud resident VNS service can be shipped with supplicant VNS application or again established by trust on first use. Note that decryption with the private key corresponding to the notary s public key or obviously the cloud resident VNS service s should not itself require notarization. This key pair is used exclusively to support delegation.

For the purposes of notarizing supplicants a notary need not configure her notary VNS application except to import public keys with which to authenticate notarization requests from allowed supplicants. Alternatively the supplicant s device s phone number could be used to identify it though obviously at a lower level of security. As above a supplicant s public key can be obtained by notary device through an in person key exchange or by trust on first use. Also like the notary s public keys to support the delegation protocol described above the private key corresponding to a public key that a supplicant registers with a notary to enable the notary to authenticate his notarization requests should be single purpose and not itself require notarization to use.

A host to which the device owner plans to direct web pages will first need to have additional software installed on it beyond the web browser. This software will include proxy to which the supplicant VNS application will connect the browser extension that permits proxy to open tabs in the browser and provide content and software for facilitating its pairing with supplicant VNS device . The last of these displays the proxy s addressing information presently we use the host s IP address and the port number on which proxy listens as well as the Bluetooth address of the host in a 2 dimensional barcode on the host screen permitting supplicant VNS application on supplicant device to import this information by photographing it c.f. 20 21 .

Supplicant VNS application supports the standard Certificate Signing Request CSR procedure 22 also implemented by popular web browsers for obtaining a certificate from the server or from a certificate authority CA that the server trusts. The primary addition that VNS requires for this process is the inclusion of a picture of the device owner in each certificate request for which notarization by Anyone is to be supported. Of course since most smartphones and similar devices include a camera obtaining a suitable picture should rarely pose a difficulty.

Involving another person the notary in the process of notarizing a user raises the potential for privacy issues for both the notary and the supplicant. Here we briefly review the steps we have taken in our design to minimize those privacy risks.

Regardless of whether VNS is used to protect a device s signing key for client side TLS sessions or to decrypt a ciphertext on the device no cryptographic secrets are revealed to notary device that would permit notary device to impersonate supplicant device e.g. in the TLS session being established or to recover the plaintext being computed. The URL or domain being accessed by the supplicant in a TLS establishment is also not directly revealed to the notary or his device. That said a ciphertext created under the web site s public key is revealed to notary device . If the encryption algorithm used is not key private 23 then this ciphertext can reveal statistical information about what web site is being accessed. VNS therefore cautions the user to select only notaries for a URL who he would be comfortable learning that he had visited that site.

To protect the notary s privacy during notarization by Anyone the video in this case is one way The notary can see the supplicant but the supplicant can only hear the notary. Note that it is necessary for the notary to see the supplicant to match him to the photograph displayed to the notary. Other notarization sessions involving a notary from the supplicant s social network enable the notary to select per session whether the supplicant can see video of the notary.

We have implemented VNS for Android and consequently the bulk of the application for the mobile device is written in Java using the Android SDK 24 though parts of the application are written in C and utilize the Android NDK 25 . TLS secured device to device communication is handled by the Smack XMPP library 26 . The core cryptographic protocol in VNS is implemented using Libgcrypt 27 . Our video chat implementation is based on the WebRTC framework 28 and libjingle 29 .

To support using VNS for setting up TLS sessions display computer runs proxy which is an adaptation of mitmproxy 30 a Java based SSL proxy that acts as a man in the middle . We use a modified SSL implementation based on OpenJDK 31 to intervene in the SSL handshake as required by our protocol. Using the Google Web Toolkit 32 we developed a browser extension for receiving directions from the proxy to display content in a new tab. This extension also includes code from the open source ZXing multi format 1D 2D barcode image processing library 33 to handle QR code generation. We employ the jWebSocket Java websocket server 34 to facilitate TLS secured communication between supplicant VNS device and proxy and between proxy and the browser extension via our custom plugins.

We are currently implementing the cloud service for initialization delegation sharing of keys and managing notarization by strangers using a similar set of tools as supplicant VNS application and hosting it on our own server. Since we do not expect users of VNS to maintain their own application in the cloud this type of service is something we can imagine being picked up by a service provider.

The common case use of supplicant VNS application involves a simple menu driven interface e.g. to select a notary or a URL and then a host display. An exemplary user interface that may be displayed by supplicant VNS application is pictured in . In the interface includes URL activation buttons and that allow a user to access the indicated URLs subject to successful notarization. The saved list of URLs contains both sites for which the user holds a TLS client side certificate and sites that require a password based login. The user interface also includes a manage sites button that allows the supplicant to add URLs to the list a manage devices button that allows the supplicant to select a display computer and a manage notaries button which allows the supplicant to define notaries used in the VNS service. The user interface also includes an options button which allows the supplicant to define other options associated with the VNS service.

Notarization conducted via video chat by a member of the device owner s social network vs. by a stranger presents an interface as pictured in to the notary. More particularly notary VNS application may present the user interface illustrated in to a notary as part of the authentication process. In the interface includes a supplicant video pane which displays a live video feed from the camera of supplicant device . The interface also includes a notarization questions pane which asks the notary to respond to two questions during the video chat specifically whether this supplicant appears to be the correct device owner and whether the supplicant video appears to be live i.e. not a recording which the notary ideally determines by interacting with the supplicant. We discuss this possibility further in Section IV.

The notary interface for use by a stranger i.e. contacted by way of the VNS cloud service see Section III B3 is similar to that pictured in except that rather than asking Is this Alice the interface allows the notary to toggle between the supplicant video and a pane in which he can rotate through three different photos. A similar interface is presented in our study in Section IV. One of these photos will be the certified photograph of the device owner and the other two will be photographs of others who are of the same gender and race as the device owner e.g. as specified in the device owner s certificate along with his photograph . The notary is then asked to identify the photo corresponding to the person in the video as well as to confirm that the video is live. Our use of a three photo lineup style interface for strangers who are notaries is motivated by studies that indicate that lineups can improve performance in identification tasks e.g. 35 but it is not fundamental to our design.

There are some limitations of VNS. For instance we do not provide any defense against malware on supplicant device . However malware protection such as antivirus protection can be added without departing from the scope of the subject matter described herein. Though the malware will be unable to obtain full private keys protected by VNS it would nevertheless be able to create signatures or decrypt ciphertexts using those keys once the device owner was notarized for those actions. That said a compromise of notary device is of less import since notary device does not learn the supplicant s device s private key. As such the compromise of the notary device simply eliminates the second factor defense that the notary is supposed to provide reducing the security of the supplicant to one factor possession of the device . If the display host is compromised an attacker will be able to see the contents of a TLS session but he will not be able to obtain the user s private key.

Of course there are also the social aspects of using VNS including the overhead of contacting notaries and requiring video chat for authentication. As future work we plan to perform a field trial of VNS to see just how accepting people are of it.

Recall that in addition to notarization by members of a device owner s social network VNS also supports notarization by a stranger. While it is likely that notaries in a supplicant s social network can easily identify the supplicant e.g. 6 we wanted to know if strangers could perform this task in the event that notaries in one s social network are unavailable or as mentioned earlier in cases where trained notaries in a call center may be used. We therefore conducted a user study with two goals 1 to learn how accurately notaries can identify supplicants whom they do not know through a video conversation by matching the person in the video against a set of photographs and 2 to learn how reliably a notary can test the liveness of the supplicant i.e. how well the notary can distinguish a live video of a supplicant from a generated video including one that is being manipulated to appear responsive to the notary s requests.

The threat model that gives rise to goal 2 is one in which an attacker both obtains a photograph of the owner and steals his device. Commercially available software can enable the attacker to manipulate the photograph to appear dynamic e.g. causing its eyes and mouth to move as needed and so it is conceivable that to a stranger this generated video of the device owner overlaid with the audio of the attacker so that he can easily respond to notary questions for example would be convincing to a notary who is unfamiliar with the supplicant. A goal of our experiment was to evaluate just how convincing such a generated supplicant is.

Our study comprised a set of experiments. In each experiment a group of notaries were assigned to a room and a group of supplicants were assigned to a physically separated room. Care was taken to ensure these two groups were assigned randomly and did not interact with each other in person in the experimental facility. This was done to minimize any familiarity we might introduce extraneously and thereby influence the notarization process between strangers.

Each experiment then proceeded through multiple rounds in which notaries and supplicants were paired up for video chat. In each such pairing the notary was instructed to identify the supplicant by matching the supplicant s face to one of three images. There was also a None image which could be selected if the notary believed the supplicant was not present in the photo set. The supplicant s photo was always present in the set but the notaries were not made aware of this fact. The notary was also instructed to test for liveness. We left it up to the individual notaries to decide how to determine if the video was of a live and present supplicant and encouraged them to be creative in this endeavor. When satisfied the notary answered a brief questionnaire to indicate his her degree of confidence in his selected photo and that the supplicant s video represented a live and present supplicant. Using the chosen photo and the liveness confidence we are able to determine the identification rate.

To measure the misidentification rate we challenged notaries with custom avatars that were manipulated to be responsive to notary interaction. The avatars in these video feeds were created from photos of supplicants who were not part of the current lab session. We instructed the supplicants who were controlling these avatars to act naturally during these chats and to try to convince the notary that they were in fact the person in the video feed. The avatar chats were made to appear identical to the live chats the only exception being that the notary unbeknownst to them was speaking to a supplicant who was not the person depicted in the video they were seeing. The photo set viewed by the notary included an image of the supplicant whose avatar appeared in the video feed since this was meant to mimic an impersonation attack where fabricated video might be used in an attempt to match a device owner s certified photo.

As part of the recruitment process participants were asked to submit three photos of themselves. From this collection of images a photo set was created for each participant containing one photo of them and photos of two other participants. Our goal was to create sets of images where all three people were similar in appearance in order to test the notary s ability to make a correct identification. An attempt was made to match gender ethnicity age hair color etc. whenever possible. This was sometimes challenging for one because there were more than twice as many female participants than male and also because we were limited in our choice of the two additional photos to participants who would not be present at the current lab session. For instance if a notary viewed a photo set containing a photo of the person seated next to them they could automatically eliminate that person from consideration when making their decision. Also note that a photo set had to be created for every participant since we had no way of knowing ahead of time who would be a notary or a supplicant during any given experiment see below .

Upon arriving at our lab site the participants were alternately sent to two different labs in order to divide them as evenly as possible into notaries and supplicants and to provide a randomized assignment to the supplicant or notary groups. The notary lab was equipped with five desktop computers each of which had an attached headset with microphone. The supplicant lab also had five computers each with an attached webcam microphone and speaker. Supplicants were not provided headsets since headsets would obscure the supplicants physical appearance to the notaries. Both rooms had group specific FAQ sheets placed next to each computer as well. Before the start of each lab session members of our study team gave each group a brief introduction outlining the purpose of the study and detailing their role as notary or supplicant.

Participants were told to arrive in the lobby of our building where they would then be directed to the appropriate room by a member of our study team. To avoid accidental interaction between the groups each participant was given a map with a highlighted path to their room using separate hallways and stairwells for each group. As another precaution notaries and supplicants were presented with a question immediately following each chat which asked whether they had ever interacted with the person they just chatted with before that day. We collected this data so that we could exclude any such chat pairings from our analysis in an effort to ensure that we were only looking at notarization between strangers as a result 2 out of 80 chats were excluded from consideration .

At the start of each experiment participants viewed a short walkthrough video detailing their role either notary or supplicant and the usage of their group s video chat software. The supplicant s software sent both video and audio feeds to the notary with whom he was interacting while the notary software sent audio only. The notary interface is shown in . Both systems utilized a push to talk interface including an onscreen indicator to show which if any side was currently speaking the reason for this choice is described below. Notaries were told to interact with the supplicant and compare their video feed to the provided photoset in order to verify the supplicant s identity and to verify that the video feed is of a live and present supplicant versus a recording for example . The first round was used for practice and could be repeated if desired. This was done to ensure that participants were comfortable using the software. The data from this first round was not used in our later analysis.

The specific assertions presented to the notary after he selected a photo that he believed to be the supplicant were 

The supplicant s user interface is similar to the notary s with three important exceptions. First the supplicant interface shows the video of the supplicant not of the notary so that the supplicant can see what the notary is seeing. Recall that notarization by strangers involves video in only one direction but audio in both. Second the instructions on the right half of the screen were unnecessary for the supplicant since the supplicant has no controls to manipulate during the notarization process. Third of course the supplicant was not posed the above questions at the end of a round.

The notary s interface in particular was adapted to reflect technical limitations that would be typical of video chatting over mobile devices. For example the notary s video display was limited to a size approximately that of a modern smart phone screen. Moreover we inserted randomly generated freezes and skips into the video to mimic glitches typical of live video chats today. To produce these effects we randomly applied one of two custom filters to the video display. Both filters applied a slight pixelation to the video and one inserted approximately half second pauses every 12 seconds on average while the other inserted approximately one second pauses every 8 seconds on average.

We used the SitePal service 36 to create avatars based on photos of participants from other lab sessions. A photo of the supplicant lab was used as the background image for the avatars so that they would not appear different from the live supplicant video feeds. The avatars were controlled by a supplicant whose real voice was heard by the notary even though the video feed was falsified. As described in Section IV A2 supplicants were habituated to use a push to talk system for speech and these inputs caused the lips of the avatar to move while the supplicant was speaking. We created both male and female avatars and ensured that the gender of the avatar matched that of the controlling supplicant.

After each participant viewed the walkthrough video they entered their assigned participant ID number into our software s web interface to join the session. Once everyone had joined one of the study team members would start the session via an administrative web interface. Starting the session in this manner was necessary in order to create the notary supplicant pairings based on who actually showed up to the experiment. When making these pairings the software also made sure that each notary would see one avatar during a random round after the first round and that each supplicant would act in the avatar role at most one time. The software also made it possible to repeat the first practice round if either side chose to do so and also automatically advanced through the rounds once all the chats for the current round were completed.

We implemented our study software as a Google Web Toolkit application with a MySQL backend. The video chat component was written in Actionscript and embedded in the web interface as a Flash movie. We used the open source Red5 Media Server 37 to relay the video and audio streams and various other inputs to control the push to talk interface the round changes and the avatar actions.

Study participants were recruited via flyers placed in several high traffic areas on a university campus anonymized and email announcements sent to a campus listserv. To be eligible for the study participants must have been born in the United States lived in the United States at least through high school and be at least 18 years of age. The United States restriction was put in place to limit variation in speaking accents since supplicants would sometimes be required to impersonate others and we wanted these situations to appear as natural as possible. Interested participants were directed to our website where they were asked to submit three face images of themselves taken on three different occasions and to sign up for a time when they could visit our lab to participate in a video chat experiment. Potential participants were offered 20 for completing one of these experiments or a prorated amount if they terminated the study early. 97 people filled out this form and due to scheduling constraints we were able to invite 74 of them to come to one of our scheduled lab sessions. Of the 74 that we invited 62 actually showed up for an experiment.

One of our experiments with 6 participants experienced a software malfunction and thus our results are based on experimental data gathered from 56 participants 26 notaries and 30 supplicants . Of our 56 participants 15 were male and 41 were female. 88 of the participants were age 25 or under. 53 of the participants identified themselves as Caucasian 30 as African American and 14 as Asian. 53 of the supplicants identified as Caucasian 30 as African American and 13 as Asian. Of the notaries 54 identified as Caucasian 31 as African American and 15 as Asian.

Our primary measures of participant performance in our user study were their true and false identification rates. Recall that identification here involved two facets selection of the correct supplicant photograph and confidence that the video session was a live representation of that supplicant. Since each aspect was given a confidence score by the notary at the end of the round we needed some way to combine these scores to determine whether the notary s responses indicated sufficient confidence to declare the supplicant notarized. Specifically we mapped the Likert scale responses to numeric values Strongly disagree 2 Disagree 1 Neutral 0 Agree 1 and Strongly agree 2 and defined the notary s score to be the minimum of his expressed photo confidence and his liveness confidence. We define the true identification rate TIR to the fraction of video chats with live supplicants after which the notary selected the supplicant s photograph and registered a score as just defined of at least a specified threshold t. The false identification rate FIR is then the fraction of video chats with supplicant avatars after which the notary selected the photograph matching the avatar and registered a score of at least t.

The One Notary ROC curve in then results by varying t in the range 2 2 . For example setting t 2 yields a TIR of over 50 and simultaneously an FIR of roughly 5 . On the other end of the spectrum setting t 2 yields a TIR of over 85 but also an FIR of roughly 80 . A balance point i.e. at which 1 TIR FIR comes at around t 1 in which case 1 TIR FIR 24 .

We also show a Two Notaries ROC curve in that is constructed by combining the scores from each pair of video chats by two notaries with the same supplicant or avatar based on the same human supplicant in our study. Specifically for each such pair of video chats the scores of the two notaries were summed and compared to a threshold t now ranged over 4 4 . As before a combined score of at least t resulted in an identification for the purposes of computing a TIR and FIR. As shows employing a pair of notaries in this way improves the ROC curve so that e.g. its balance point at t 0 yields 1 TIR FIR 12 .

One of the more interesting aspects of our study was learning how notaries would determine that they were speaking with a real person i.e. that the supplicant was live and present. Note that we did not give participants any insight into the specific form of attack that our study attempted i.e. one with live human audio overlaid on a manufactured video. Therefore it is not surprising that some notaries adopted strategies that would be ineffective against this form of attack as indicated in their responses to the post study question What did you do to ensure that a live supplicant was present For example most of the ineffective strategies tested at best only the liveness of the audio but not of the video 

Despite such cases the majority of answers to this question indicated that notaries recognized the need to determine the liveness of both the audio and the video either initially or once something about the video alerted them. For example 

In a questionnaire at the end of their participation in the study the participants indicated that they were comfortable interacting through video chat Strongly Agree SA 10 Agree A 30 Neither Agree nor Disagree NA 6 Disagree D 6 Strongly Disagree SD 4 . More specifically the overwhelming majority of supplicants indicated that they were comfortable seeking identification from another person through video chat SA 5 A 13 NA 9 D 2 SD 1 . When asked to rate identification through video both notaries and supplicants were very positive Very good 5 Good 31 Neither Good nor Bad 18 Bad 2 Very Bad 0 . When asked how often they have video conversations most participants responded on the more often side of the spectrum Often 13 Sometimes 24 Rarely 14 Never 5 .

Written responses from the participants indicated a degree of awkwardness in many cases though this seemed to differ somewhat between notaries and supplicants. In part this may have been due to the one wayness of the video stream. For example one notary wrote It oddly was more comfortable knowing that I could see them but they couldn t see me. In contrast one supplicant noted It was just a little odd because I couldn t see the other person and another said I usually feel uncomfortable chatting where someone can see me but I can t see them. 

A number of other useful insights came from the participant responses. For example one notary indicated that it would have been helpful to have more photos to which to compare 

Another notary pointed out that ethnicity impacted his ability to correctly identify supplicants though we presume he meant race not ethnicity It s harder to identify those of other ethnicities than my own. In fact it is well known that people better recognize faces of people from their own races than from other races 38 40 . When using strangers as notaries it may thus be advisable to utilize strangers of the same race as the supplicant which could be encoded in the supplicant s certificate.

The takeaway messages from our user study we believe are threefold. First notarization by strangers is an imperfect defense though it clearly provides a more useful middle ground than disallowing notarization entirely the equivalent of a zero TIR when no notary in a supplicant s social network is available. Our study suggests that when using a single stranger as a notary careful thought should be given to selecting an appropriate confidence threshold. A threshold can be chosen to strike a balance between TIR and FIR though for many practical uses it may be acceptable to decrease this threshold to improve the TIR with a corresponding detriment to the FIR. This tradeoff may be particularly attractive if the threat model under which we evaluated the FIR is considered more advanced than would be common. Our results also suggest the alternative of using two notaries which generally yields better results than one notary but also comes with increased inconvenience. Other possible improvements suggested by participants include utilizing more photos per supplicant and utilizing a notary of the same race as the supplicant.

Though the true identification rates are not as high as we would like recall that reliance on strangers for video notarization would generally be a last resort for when no notary from within the supplicant s social network is available. The false identification rates also fall short of the ideal but recall that this measure represents the most difficult case for VNS an attacker who steals a device uses a photograph of the owner and state of the art software to create a life like avatar for the owner and then accesses a resource for which Anyone is an allowable notary. Moreover to prevent the attacker from trying strangers repeatedly until one assents the VNS service can suspend the device after some number of consecutive notary rejections.

A second takeaway message is that while several notaries figured out effective measures to test the liveness of both the audio and video some did not. As such more explicit instruction to guide the notary in testing the liveness of both the video and audio would be beneficial.

Third we found that the participants in our study were generally comfortable with authentication through video chat perhaps in part because many were already participating in video chats in their lives outside of our study. We believe this bodes well for the potential for a system like VNS to be accepted by users though their comments also shed light on potential improvements to the system.

There are of course several limitations of our study. Like most studies our participants may not represent the general population ours were presumably mostly affiliated with our university in some fashion for example. The extent to which our results generalize to the broader population is unclear though since the duties of a notary rely on interpersonal interaction skills that people of all walks of life exercise on a daily basis we would expect that our study might generalize quite well.

A natural concern about using strangers as notaries is the possibility that notaries will not take their responsibility seriously. Our study did not address this issue and we did observe varying levels of commitment on the part of the notaries. We leave as future work the design incentive schemes to motivate notaries to do a good job.

A third limitation of our study is that the avatars we constructed though reasonably effective were not perfect and presumably were well below the state of the art of modern video and audio production. It seems likely that with access to modern tools and expertise in special effects and animation and with enough patience and motivation an attacker could construct a video representation of nearly anyone that would fool a stranger though perhaps not a friend . Nevertheless we believe that notarization substantially raises the bar for all but very targeted attackers.

We have introduced the concept of notarization a process where a remote entity can verify via video chat who is in physical possession of a mobile device as a necessary condition for the device to make use of its credentials. We implemented VNS an Android application using notarization to protect cryptographic keys used for decrypting on device data or signing in support of client side TLS. Since VNS requires no server side changes users can proactively decide which services and data they wish to protect using it. Through a detailed user study we also evaluated the possibility of extending the notary role to users outside of one s social network. While not a perfect defense we believe that strangers as notaries are still viable as a last resort when no notary in a supplicant s social network is available considering that the threat model in our evaluation is likely more advanced than would be common.

As described above the subject matter described herein can be implemented using a supplicant VNS application and a notary VNS application. is a block diagram of an exemplary system for implementing the subject matter described herein. Referring to supplicant device includes supplicant VNS application and a supplicant side cryptography module . Notary device includes notary VNS application and a notary side cryptography module . Supplicant device and notary device may each be any one of a mobile phone a tablet computer a desktop computer a laptop computer a gaming console or any other device capable of executing applications and communicating with other devices over a network. Supplicant VNS application performs the steps described herein for the supplicant to initiate an interactive video call with the notary to manage notary services for different protected resources and to select notaries. In one embodiment supplicant VNS application selects notaries using social networking contacts of the supplicant which may be stored on supplicant device and or in cloud storage accessible by supplicant device .

In response to receiving confirmation of successful video authentication of the supplicant supplicant VNS application may provide or facilitate access to a protected resource such encryption keys passwords emails text messages contact lists or other information stored on supplicant device or accessible via supplicant device . Supplicant side cryptography module performs the operations described herein for supplicant side access to a protected resource once the interactive video authentication is successful. Notary side cryptography module may present supplicant side cryptography module with a capability such as a key valid for a notarization interval for accessing a protected resource. Supplicant side cryptography module sends a message with the capability to notary side cryptography module . Notary side cryptography module partially signs the message with its share of a key that is cryptographically shared with supplicant side cryptography module . Supplicant side cryptography module may complete the signature of the message that is partially signed by notary side cryptography module using its share of the private key.

Notary VNS application performs the steps described above for allowing a notary to identify a supplicant and confirm that video of the supplicant is live via an interactive video call. Notary VNS application may also upon successful authentication of the supplicant instruct notary side cryptography module to perform the notary side cryptographic functions for furthering access to a protected electronic resource. In one implementation notary VNS application may provide a graphical user interface for the notary to receive a video call from the supplicant view video of the supplicant to indicate whether the supplicant is who the supplicant purports to be and to indicate whether the video of the supplicant is live. For the case where the notary does not know the supplicant the graphical user interface may display images of the supplicant for the notary to view and match to the video of the supplicant.

In one embodiment notary side cryptography module may perform the notary side cryptographic operations upon successful authentication of the supplicant by the notary. For example as described above notary side cryptography module may partially sign a message received from supplicant side cryptography module using its share of the private key that is cryptographically shared with supplicant side cryptography module .

Supplicant device and notary device may each include a processor at least partially implemented in hardware and a memory for executing and storing the various modules and applications illustrated in . Cryptography modules and may be executed by processors or by separate processors which are secure and dedicated to performing cryptographic functions.

In the embodiment illustrated in supplicant device interacts directly with notary device . However as described above in an alternate embodiment supplicant device may instruct a proxy to interact with notary device . The above described VNS protocol can be used to protect any suitable electronic resource including passwords user IDs cryptographic keys account information or any other suitable electronic resource that it is desirable to protect.

In step the method includes providing a notary VNS application executable on a notary device through which the notary receives the interactive video call and interacts with the supplicant via the interactive video call to confirm the identity of the supplicant and that the video of the supplicant provided in the call is live. For example notary VNS application may be provided on a notary s computing device through which a notary verifies the identity of the supplicant and that the video of the supplicant is live.

While VNS is described above as useful protecting sensitive information stored on a mobile device other application as possible without departing from the scope of the subject matter described herein. We have thus identified the following additional applications for VNS 

The disclosure of each of the following references is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

It will be understood that various details of the subject matter described herein may be changed without departing from the scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the foregoing description is for the purpose of illustration only and not for the purpose of limitation.

