---

title: Two dimensional photonic cluster state generator from sequential photons with variable delay loopback
abstract: An integrated waveguide device that creates entanglement between a sequence of periodically spaced (in time) photons in a single input and output mode. The device consists of a polarization maintaining integrated waveguide chip containing a number of delay lines, integrated multimode interferometers with the potential for rapid switching, a polarization controller, an entangling gate, and off chip computer logic and timing. The device is capable of creating a diverse array of outputs such as linear cluster states and ring cluster states in a single output mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09077457&OS=09077457&RS=09077457
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 09077457
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140409
---
This patent application claims the priority benefit of the filing date of provisional application Ser. No. 61 879 698 having been filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on Sep. 19 2013 and now incorporated by reference herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

A cluster state can be loosely defined as an entangled set of qubits arranged in a lattice. Breigel and Raussendorf strictly define a cluster state as Let each lattice site be specified by a d tuple of positive or negative integers a Z. Each site has 2d neighboring sites. If occupied they interact with the qubit a . This implies that a cluster state has interactions between all nearest neighbor qubits. In one dimension d 1 this results in a linear chain of qubits of arbitrary length with each qubit connected to both of its nearest neighbors. All of the internal qubits will have two interactions while the end qubits will have one. Such a one dimensional nearest neighbor cluster state has been shown to be capable of several interesting applications presuming the cluster state is long enough. Of more interest are two dimensional cluster states which have been shown to be a universal resource for quantum computation if the cluster state is large enough. Even for small systems two dimensional cluster states are more desirable as they are able to implement more diverse and complex calculations.

Traditional generation of a cluster state consists of an optical table several meters on each side. On this table is a high power pump laser system such as a pulsed Ti Sapphire laser. The pump beam is incident on a nonlinear material such as BBO BiBO or PPKTP etc. The photons from the pump then have a small chance to undergo Spontaneous Nonlinear Parametric Down Conversion SPDC to create an entangled pair of photons called signal and idler photons. Alternative means of photon generation are equally valid such as four wave mixing FWM .

To create larger clusters the pump passes through multiple nonlinear materials a cascade configuration or is reflected back onto the material a multi pass configuration . These methods can create multiple simultaneous independent pairs of qubits. To create one large cluster state the pairs are sent through i.e. acted on by an entangling operation. Normally the controlled phase gate CPhase or equivalently controlled Z gate CZ is used in the state of the art. The simplest and most efficient means of implementing the general CZ gate requires 3 bulk optical asymmetric beam splitters in a specific alignment. These operations are effectively performed in parallel with each qubit entering and exiting in its own port and the order of the operations is irrelevant if CZ is used. Once all the entangling operations are successfully completed the cluster state is fully constructed and any Measurement Based Quantum Computing MBQC algorithm can be implemented as a sequence of single qubit rotations and measurements on each qubit in a predetermined sequence. In the state of the art cluster states are created from simultaneously generated qubits in parallel modes rather than from sequential qubits in a single mode. This is in large part due to the spontaneous nature of single photon sources. It is impossible to predict the time between two subsequent spontaneous events.

Briefly stated the present invention proposes to add additional capability to the Sequential Entangler SE of Smith and Fanto U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 013 355 such that two dimensional cluster states can be created from a sequence of periodic photons in a single mode. The present invention comprises an integrated waveguide device that creates entanglement between a sequence of periodically spaced in time photons in a single input and output mode. The device consists of a polarization maintaining integrated waveguide chip containing a number of delay lines integrated multimode interferometers with the potential for rapid switching an entangling gate having entangling and bypass inputs and outputs a polarization controller and off chip computer logic and timing. The device is capable of creating a diverse array of outputs such as linear cluster states and ring cluster states in a single output mode.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention an apparatus for sequentially entangling photons in two dimensions the invention comprises a waveguide chip having integrated optical components and interconnecting optical waveguide disposed therein where the optical components further comprise an input port connected to the optical waveguide for inputting photons into the waveguide chip a polarization controller connected to the input port for rotating the polarization of the input port a plurality of delay lines in both forward and loopback paths for synchronizing the photons in time a plurality of multimode interferometers for selectably routing the photons through any of the interconnecting optical waveguide a plurality of controllers for switching the input mode of any of the plurality of multimode interferometers so as to route the photons into and out of a selected interferometer s input and output ports a clock source for synchronizing the controller with the arrival of the photons an entangling gate having bypass and entangling inputs and bypass and entangling outputs for selectively entangling photons and an output port for routing the entangled photons out of the waveguide chip.

The present invention builds upon the periodic photon source of Mower and Englund WO2013009946 A1 to create entanglement between sequential separable qubits delivered in a single mode and create linear and two dimensional cluster states from sequential qubits which are then output in a single mode. Such a device is of interest in and of itself for quantum computing. Applications include but are not limited to the MBQC implementation of Grover s algorithm on a 4 qubit square cluster state quantum key distribution and quantum chemistry. Such experiments could be performed in a single mode with a single detector given a high speed adjustable rotation device. This represents a significant improvement as photon detection remains a difficult and expensive prospect.

The present invention takes the loop back feature of the sequential entangler and adds a second larger loop back after the entangling operation. These loops are independently controllable. In the preferred embodiment the second larger loop back allows for a photon which is already entangled with its nearest neighbors to be looped back so that it can be entangled with a non nearest neighbor. This effectively creates a two dimensional cluster state which is flattened into a single mode. The preferred embodiment uses polarization maintaining waveguides and polarization maintaining integrated devices such as multi mode interferometers MMI and assume that a periodic source of single photons with period T is available similar to Smith and Fanto U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 013 355 .

The present invention creates the entanglement between sequential qubits by using the loop back element that delays one photon for one period T of the sequence thus allowing for two sequential photons to be acted on by a standard entangling operation. The preferred embodiment uses the polarization encoded CZ gate of Crespi et. al W02012150568A1 . After the CZ gate ne photon now entangled so which photon cannot be distinguished is then released and the second is looped back to coincide with the arrival of the next photon and so on. This probabilistically produces a linear cluster state identical to the Sequential Entangler of Smith and Fanto U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 013 355 . The term probabilistically is used as the state of the art standard CZ gate has a success rate of 1 9. Thus the larger a desired cluster state is the less likely it is to be created in any one attempt. This is a result of the entangling operation and not the device itself per se as no photonic entangling operation can be performed with success rate equal to one. The present invention will create a linear cluster state numerically identical to the industry standard parallel method but arranges the qubits as a periodic sequence with a constant period T in a single optical mode. Any two qubit entangling operation can be used in place of the CZ gate however such gates may produce different cluster states.

In order to change the linear cluster state into a two dimensional cluster state the preferred embodiment loops back selected qubits from the linear cluster state so that they may be entangled with another qubit in the chain. For the discussion below the focus is on the application of creating ring shaped cluster states. The present invention is not limited to only ring cluster states and other outputs are feasible. To create the ring in the preferred embodiment it loops the first and only the first qubit from the front of the linear cluster state chain to the back of the chain and entangle it with the last qubit to close the ring.

The large loop back may be fabricated as a static delay line such as a polarization maintaining waveguide meander or a fiber delay line as is shown in an alternate formulation. The preferred embodiment is a more versatile device which incorporates a variable delay in this loop. The preferred implementation uses such a series of polarization maintaining waveguide meander delays of differing size. The present invention uses a series of waveguide meanders i.e. delay lines due to the ease of their fabrication and stability however any device with variable single photon storage time such as but not limited to a toroidal ring resonator a trapped ion system or a cold atomic gas cell represent trivial modifications. The advantage of a variable delay is that a single device can create rings of different sizes simply by changing the length of the delay in multiples of the input period T.

Such ring shaped clusters have a variety of uses. A 4 qubit ring or square cluster state was used to implement Grover s search of 4 logical elements in the MBQC basis the largest all optical implementation of the algorithm to date. A six qubit hexagonal ring was used with additional qubits to simulate a benzene molecule in an application of quantum chemistry.

Referring to shows the full integrated waveguide IW chip . The input to the device is an evenly spaced sequence of photons with period T. Such photons can be created from the source of Mower and Englund WO2013009946 A1 or other sources.

The photons enter the chip via the input port . The preferred integrated waveguide chip is a single large monolithic chip of Lithium Niobate LiNbO . The input port is a polarization maintaining optical waveguide fabricated in the chip . Polarization maintaining waveguides are required as we chose to encode our qubits in the polarization modes of each photon. Thus the resource of periodic photons must also be in a known polarization state. It is then trivial to rotate the input state polarization state to any desired state via a polarization controller . The preferred implementation uses integrated waveguide based polarization controllers which function via the electro optical effect. Such rotations could take place prior to the photons entering the chip but for generality and controllability we rotate the polarizations on chip. The preferred embodiment rotates the incoming photons at to the plus state equal superposition of horizontal and vertical polarization H V up to normalizations . The photons then enter through one of two ports in a polarization maintaining multimode interferometer MMI . All such interferometers are integrated on chip and consist of a multimode slab of the waveguide material similar to that described by Soldano and Pennings J. of Lightwave Tech. Vol. 13 No. 4 1995 . The switching and coupling effect of such MMI s is dependent on their geometry and the index change induced via the electro optic effect. The fabrication and operation of MMIs is well known in the state of the art. The preferred embodiment has different species of MMIs such as 1 by 2 2 by 2 and 2 by 1 MMIs however note that the device could be trivially redesigned with identical MMIs in which unused ports were simply bulk terminated. The MMI is electro optically controlled and can deterministically route photons to either of its output modes and . Initially the MMI will pass photons into mode . The MMI is controlled via logical control line by off chip electronics . The off chip electronics receives a clock signal in order to synchronize all of its operations with the periodic input. MMI sends the first and only the first photon into its upper output mode and all subsequent photons into its lower mode . By upper and lower we refer to the schematic layout of and not to a design feature. Upper mode enters a subsequent MMI where the upper mode of MMI enters waveguide meander delay . The length of the waveguide meander delay is fabricated such that it is exactly one period of the sequence of the input photons. Thus in this implementation the period T must be a predetermined constant known before fabrication regardless of the number of photons used in any given instance. A variable storage length device could be used in place of and if all such delays are replaced with variable delays then there would be some flexibility in the period of the input photons. The photon in is then incident on MMI which is set by logical control line .

The second photon which enters the device is sent to the lower mode by MMI . The length of the delay line and modes and are fabricated such that the two photons are simultaneously incident on the paired MMIs . The MMIs are considered paired because they act in tandem to either direct the photons into the entangling operation or into the bypass lines . The entangling operation in the preferred embodiment is the CZ gate of Crespi et. al W02012150568A1 . This gate is implemented in waveguides as several static evanescent couplers. The gate is probabilistic with a success rate of 1 9 and requires four modes two of which enter as vacuum. After passing through either the entangling operation or the bypass lines which must be fabricated to be the exact same length i.e. to maintain synchronization the photons are incident on another set of MMIs.

MMI is in the upper path. MMI is in the lower path. These MMIs are controlled by the set of logical control lines . MMI always acts to channel its incident photons from the CZ gate or the by pass line to MMI . MMI is more important as it takes input photons and channels them into the loop back feature or to the MMI . A successful application of the CZ gate will produce one photon in each output and thus one photon in both MMIs and equivalently use of the bypass lines will do the same . MMI then feeds one photon into the loopback line . The other photon is channeled by MMI into MMI .

The loop back is in essence a delay line and may require an additional meander . The photon in this mode then enters MMI in the upper mode. The length of and are determined prior to fabrication such that a photon which enters will be incident on the paired MMIs in the upper mode at the same time that the next photon in the sequence reaches the paired MMIs in the lower mode. In other words the looped back photon is held for one period until it is synchronized with the next photon in the sequence. Thus the CZ gate which acts on simultaneously incident qubits is made to act on sequential qubits in a single mode.

This process then repeats to create a chain of arbitrary length assuming the CZ gate succeeds each time. In the event that the CZ gate fails the desired cluster state will not be created. Other mechanisms such as photon loss will also cause a failure. Such a failure can be trivially detected via post selection by the absence of a photon from the sequence.

Simultaneously the photons from the lower mode which exits MMI is incident on MMI . This MMI controls access to the larger loop back path or the output mode and is controlled via logical control line and electronics . This larger loop back allows for photons from one part of the chain to be delayed so that they may be entangled with another part of the chain. This can be considered a multi dimensional cluster state output or a not nearest neighbor one dimensional cluster state.

As an example the creation of a ring shaped cluster state is described next. To create a ring shaped cluster state MMI channels the first photon it receives into a larger variable delay line loopback path . The length of the delay line loopback path is variable because it comprises delay lines and all having different optical delay values and each being capable of being switched into or bypassed by the optical path originating at the upper mode of MMI and terminating at the upper mode of MMI . Switching delay lines and into or bypassing this optical path is accomplished by MMIs all MMIs of which are controlled by off chip electronics via control lines . Photons are output from the device chip at the lower mode of MMI .

