---

title: Dynamic quality of service (QoS) for services over cellular
abstract: The disclosure is related to dynamically applying quality of service (QoS) to a call. An aspect determines a packet transmission state of a subscriber on the call, determines whether or not the QoS is allocated to the subscriber, and allocates the QoS to the subscriber based on the QoS not being allocated to the subscriber and the packet transmission state indicating that the subscriber is sending packets.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09357359&OS=09357359&RS=09357359
owner: QUALCOMM INCORPORATED
number: 09357359
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140128
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 760 808 entitled DYNAMIC QUALITY OF SERVICE QOS FOR SERVICES OVER CELLULAR filed Feb. 5 2013 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The disclosure is directed to providing dynamic quality of service QoS for services over cellular wireless communications.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and third generation 3G and fourth generation 4G high speed data Internet capable wireless services. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

More recently Long Term Evolution LTE has been developed as a wireless communications protocol for wireless communication of high speed data for mobile phones and other data terminals. LTE is based on GSM and includes contributions from various GSM related protocols such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA .

Push to talk PTT is a method of conversing on half duplex communication lines using a momentary button to switch from voice reception mode to transmit mode. PTT over cellular PoC is a service option for a cellular phone that permits subscribers to use their cell phones for PTT calls.

Regarding wireless access current approaches to PoC services are dependent on the network s ability to provide adequate quality of service QoS to the subscriber because PoC services resemble telephony services in that voice media latency is of critical concern. Moreover control signaling latency also has affiliated QoS for PoC services due to fundamental PoC features such as fast call setup timely disposition of subscriber floor requests and other value added services that may be delivered via PoC.

However many operator networks are not always able to provide QoS for PoC for several reasons including 1 a lack of a core network configuration to support PoC QoS and 2 temporary network loading conditions. The first reason could be due to an operator s inability to scale its network for both full duplex voice subscribers and PoC subscribers and is considered more of a permanent condition. The second reason is typically due to peak loading periods and is usually predictable. Since QoS is usually allocated as part of the call setup operators would have to consider PoC subscribers requirements as part of their call admission control CAC . If the operators cannot meet the QoS requirements of a PoC subscriber upon a call request current CAC procedures would generally result in either a call denial or a degradation of the call quality by not offering QoS.

Accordingly it would be desirable in such situations to provide an intermediate QoS offering that would allow the operator flexibility to dynamically allocate QoS to a PoC subscriber based on that PoC subscriber s state.

The disclosure is directed to dynamically applying quality of service QoS to a call. A method of dynamically applying QoS to a call includes determining a packet transmission state of a subscriber on the call determining whether or not the QoS is allocated to the subscriber and allocating the QoS to the subscriber based on the QoS not being allocated to the subscriber and the packet transmission state indicating that the subscriber is sending packets.

An apparatus for dynamically applying QoS to a call includes logic configured to determine a packet transmission state of a subscriber on the call logic configured to determine whether or not the QoS is allocated to the subscriber and logic configured to allocate the QoS to the subscriber based on the QoS not being allocated to the subscriber and the packet transmission state indicating that the subscriber is sending packets.

An apparatus for dynamically applying QoS to a call includes means for determining a packet transmission state of a subscriber on the call means for determining whether or not the QoS is allocated to the subscriber and means for allocating the QoS to the subscriber based on the QoS not being allocated to the subscriber and the packet transmission state indicating that the subscriber is sending packets.

A non transitory computer readable medium for dynamically applying QoS to a call includes at least one instruction to determine a packet transmission state of a subscriber on the call at least one instruction to determine whether or not the QoS is allocated to the subscriber and at least one instruction to allocate the QoS to the subscriber based on the QoS not being allocated to the subscriber and the packet transmission state indicating that the subscriber is sending packets.

Various aspects are disclosed in the following description and related drawings. Alternate aspects may be devised without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally well known elements of the disclosure will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the disclosure.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects. Likewise the term aspects of the disclosure does not require that all aspects of the disclosure include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many aspects are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the disclosure may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the aspects described herein the corresponding form of any such aspects may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WiFi networks e.g. based on IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs . . . N are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. the RAN an access point etc. over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. CDMA EV DO eHRPD GSM EDGE W CDMA LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an Ethernet connection of WiFi or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is the access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE or UE over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself in an example e.g. for a WiFi router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to an application server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The application server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the application server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the application server via the core network and or the Internet .

Examples of protocol specific implementations for the RAN and the core network are provided below with respect to to help explain the wireless communications system in more detail. In particular the components of the RAN and the core network corresponds to components associated with supporting packet switched PS communications whereby legacy circuit switched CS components may also be present in these networks but any legacy CS specific components are not shown explicitly in .

In the core network includes the above noted SGSN B and potentially a number of other SGSNs as well and a GGSN B. Generally GPRS is a protocol used in GSM for routing IP packets. The GPRS core network e.g. the GGSN B and one or more SGSNs B is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G access networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network i.e. the core network that provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. UEs of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the Internet as if from one location at the GGSN B. This is achieved by transferring the respective UE s data from the UE s current SGSN B to the GGSN B which is handling the respective UE s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN B acts as an interface between a GPRS backbone network not shown and the Internet . The GGSN B extracts packet data with associated a packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from GPRS packets coming from the SGSN B and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN connected UE to the SGSN B which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of a target UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN B stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and its associated profile in a location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN B is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for a connected UE. The GGSN B also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN B is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN B includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN B stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN B for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs B are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN B ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN B iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN B via a Radio Access Network Application Part RANAP protocol. RANAP operates over a Iu interface Iu ps with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN B communicates with the GGSN B via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN B and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs not shown and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . In the example of the Gn between the SGSN B and the GGSN B carries both the GTP C and the GTP U. While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN B is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

In the core network includes a plurality of Mobility Management Entities MMEs D and D a Home Subscriber Server HSS D a Serving Gateway S GW D a Packet Data Network Gateway P GW D and a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF D. Network interfaces between these components the RAN and the Internet are illustrated in and are defined in Table 1 below as follows 

A high level description of the components shown in the RAN and core network of will now be described. However these components are each well known in the art from various 3GPP TS standards and the description contained herein is not intended to be an exhaustive description of all functionalities performed by these components.

Referring to the MMEs D and D are configured to manage the control plane signaling for the EPS bearers. MME functions include Non Access Stratum NAS signaling NAS signaling security Mobility management for inter and intra technology handovers P GW and S GW selection and MME selection for handovers with MME change.

Referring to the S GW D is the gateway that terminates the interface toward the RAN . For each UE associated with the core network for an EPS based system at a given point of time there is a single S GW. The functions of the S GW D for both the GTP based and the Proxy Mobile IPv6 PMIP based S5 S8 include Mobility anchor point Packet routing and forwarding and setting the DiffServ Code Point DSCP based on a QoS Class Identifier QCI of the associated EPS bearer.

Referring to the P GW D is the gateway that terminates the SGi interface toward the Packet Data Network PDN e.g. the Internet . If a UE is accessing multiple PDNs there may be more than one P GW for that UE however a mix of S5 S8 connectivity and Gn Gp connectivity is not typically supported for that UE simultaneously. P GW functions include for both the GTP based S5 S8 Packet filtering by deep packet inspection UE IP address allocation setting the DSCP based on the QCI of the associated EPS bearer accounting for inter operator charging uplink UL and downlink DL bearer binding as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203 UL bearer binding verification as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to both GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN UTRAN only UEs and E UTRAN capable UEs using any of E UTRAN GERAN or UTRAN. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to E UTRAN capable UEs using E UTRAN only over the S5 S8 interface.

Referring to the PCRF D is the policy and charging control element of the EPS based core network . In a non roaming scenario there is a single PCRF in the HPLMN associated with a UE s Internet Protocol Connectivity Access Network IP CAN session. The PCRF terminates the Rx interface and the Gx interface. In a roaming scenario with local breakout of traffic there may be two PCRFs associated with a UE s IP CAN session A Home PCRF H PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a HPLMN and a Visited PCRF V PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a visited VPLMN. PCRF is described in more detail in 3GPP TS 23.203 and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. In the application server e.g. which can be referred to as the AF in 3GPP terminology is shown as connected to the core network via the Internet or alternatively to the PCRF D directly via an Rx interface. Generally the application server or AF is an element offering applications that use IP bearer resources with the core network e.g. UMTS PS domain GPRS domain resources LTE PS data services . One example of an application function is the Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF of the IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS Core Network sub system. The AF uses the Rx reference point to provide session information to the PCRF D. Any other application server offering IP data services over cellular network can also be connected to the PCRF D via the Rx reference point.

In the eHRPD RAN includes a plurality of base transceiver stations BTSs E E and E which are connected to an enhanced BSC eBSC and enhanced PCF ePCF E. The eBSC ePCF E can connect to one of the MMEs D or D within the EPS core network A over an S101 interface and to an HRPD serving gateway HSGW E over A10 and or A11 interfaces for interfacing with other entities in the EPS core network A e.g. the S GW D over an S103 interface the P GW D over an S2a interface the PCRF D over a Gxa interface a 3GPP AAA server not shown explicitly in over an STa interface etc. . The HSGW E is defined in 3GPP2 to provide the interworking between HRPD networks and EPS LTE networks. As will be appreciated the eHRPD RAN and the HSGW E are configured with interface functionality to evolved packet core EPC LTE networks that is not available in legacy HRPD networks.

Turning back to the eHRPD RAN in addition to interfacing with the EPS LTE network A the eHRPD RAN can also interface with legacy HRPD networks such as HRPD network B. As will be appreciated the HRPD network B is an example implementation of a legacy HRPD network such as the EV DO network from . For example the eBSC ePCF E can interface with an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server E via an A12 interface or to a PDSN FA E via an A10 or A11 interface. The PDSN FA E in turn connects to HA A through which the Internet can be accessed. In certain interfaces e.g. A13 A16 H1 H2 etc. are not described explicitly but are shown for completeness and would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art familiar with HRPD or eHRPD.

Referring to it will be appreciated that LTE core networks e.g. and HRPD core networks that interface with eHRPD RANs and HSGWs e.g. can support network initiated Quality of Service QoS e.g. by the P GW GGSN SGSN etc. in certain cases.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. application server web URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only memory ROM or random access memory RAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

Accordingly an aspect of the disclosure can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the disclosure is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the aspects of the disclosure and are merely to aid in the description of various aspects of the disclosure.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B one of BSs A through A one of Node Bs B through B one of eNodeBs D through D etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. PDSN SGSN GGSN S GW P GW MME HSS PCRF the application server etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the logic configured to process information may include logic configured to determine a packet transmission state of a subscriber on a call logic configured to determine whether or not QoS is allocated to the subscriber and logic configured to allocate the QoS to the subscriber based on the QoS not being allocated to the subscriber and the packet transmission state indicating that the subscriber is sending packets. The processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM flash memory ROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an aspect that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the aspects described below in more detail.

Sessions that operate over networks such as 1 EV DO in UMTS based W CDMA in LTE in and eHRPD in can be supported on channels e.g. RABs flows etc. for which a guaranteed quality level is reserved which is referred to as Quality of Service QoS . For example establishing a given level of QoS on a particular channel may provide one or more of a minimum guaranteed bit rate GBR on that channel a maximum delay jitter latency bit error rate BER and so on. QoS resources can be reserved or setup for channels associated with real time or streaming communication sessions such as Voice over IP VoIP sessions group communication sessions e.g. PTT sessions etc. online games IP TV and so on to help ensure seamless end to end packet transfer for these sessions.

The various aspects may be implemented on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as server illustrated in . In an example the server may correspond to one example configuration of the application server described above. In the server includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers or to the Internet. In context with it will be appreciated that the server of illustrates one example implementation of the communication device whereby the logic configured to transmit and or receive information corresponds to the network access ports used by the server to communicate with the network the logic configured to process information corresponds to the processor and the logic configuration to store information corresponds to any combination of the volatile memory the disk drive and or the disc drive . The optional logic configured to present information and the optional logic configured to receive local user input are not shown explicitly in and may or may not be included therein. Thus helps to demonstrate that the communication device may be implemented as a server in addition to a UE implementation as in A or B as in .

Push to talk PTT is a method of conversing on half duplex communication lines using a momentary button to switch from reception mode referred to as the Listen state to transmit mode referred to as the Talk state . PTT over cellular PoC is a service option for a cellular phone that permits subscribers to use their cell phones for PTT calls.

As used herein a call may be any communication between two or more devices where the transmitting device such as a device transmitting voice data can be determined at any instant in time. For example calls can include but are not limited to PoC calls as used in various examples contained herein. A determination of which device is currently transmitting can be used to dynamically assign quality of service QoS to the transmitting device.

Current approaches to PoC services are dependent on the network s ability to provide adequate QoS to the subscriber because PoC services resemble telephony services in that voice media latency is of critical concern. Moreover control signaling latency also has an affiliated QoS for PoC services due to fundamental PoC features such as fast call setup timely disposition of subscriber floor requests and other value added services that may be delivered via PoC.

However many operator networks are not always able to provide QoS for PoC services for several reasons including 1 a lack of a core network configuration to support QoS for PoC services and 2 temporary network loading conditions. The first reason could be due to an operator s inability to scale its network for both full duplex voice subscribers and PoC subscribers and is considered more of a permanent condition. The second reason is typically due to peak loading periods and is usually predictable. Since QoS is usually allocated as part of the call setup operators would have to consider PoC subscribers requirements as part of their call admission control CAC . If the operator cannot meet the QoS requirements of a PoC subscriber upon a call request current CAC procedures would generally result in either a call denial or a degradation of the call quality by not offering QoS.

Accordingly it would be desirable in such situations to provide an intermediate QoS offering that would allow the network operator flexibility to dynamically allocate QoS to a PoC subscriber based on that PoC subscriber s state.

The various aspects of the disclosure provide a network operator the ability to dynamically apply QoS to a PoC subscriber based on criteria that the network operator can apply after call admission. Such criteria could be instantaneous network loading conditions or service monetization e.g. the subscriber s willingness to pay for a particular level of QoS .

At any given instant in time the subscriber s transmission state is either transmitting or not. For example for a voice call the subscriber s transmission state may be either speaking or listening. Since the PoC service infrastructure knows the state of the subscriber in contrast to full duplex voice telephony where this is not always possible the PoC server can indicate to the core network the PoC subscriber s state in terms of whether the PoC subscriber is currently transmitting or not for example has the floor or not. Based on this information the core network can determine whether to allocate QoS to the subscriber if it is not currently allocated.

QoS goes beyond standard audio metrics such as guaranteed bit rate and maximum packet latency. In OFDM systems for example service specific scheduling of subscriber traffic can also be considered part of QoS as opposed to service agnostic scheduling. Further network statistical multiplexing mechanisms allow for service preferential scheduling.

Telephony services e.g. video or voice can be considered a special case when trying to multiplex multiple users in a shared resource. For example LTE provides QoS Class Identifiers QCI for QoS sensitive services. QCI 1 for LTE telephony for example specifies a guaranteed bit rate maximum packet delay and maximum packet loss. As another example WebRTC sessions can either leverage QoS or not leverage QoS. No QoS is sometimes referred to as an over the top OTT service.

QoS also has implications for UE battery life based on the scheduling of user traffic. For LTE and VoIP service scheduling the normal voice traffic model assumes a Talk and Listen state. Note that for PTT PoC Talk can only occur when an individual user has the floor. Power consumption of the UE tends to be highest during the Talk state because a UE simultaneously sending and receiving data meaning that the UE is running at the highest power level.

For upstream talk bursts in LTE the UE sends scheduling requests to the base station. As a result the base station schedules the user for both uplink also referred to as upstream transmission and downlink also referred to as downstream reception. The UE monitors a downlink control channel to determine when it is allocated radio resources for transmission. Downlink reception is also time multiplexed meaning the UE can benefit from discontinuous reception DRX .

In LTE and VoIP service scheduling link allocations are performed on the basis of transmission time intervals TTIs where 1 TTI equals 1 ms. In general there are two types of scheduling dynamic and semi persistent. In dynamic scheduling scheduling requests are sent whenever new data arrives. On the uplink scheduling request periodicity limits the UE s transmission opportunities. On the downlink the DRX duration limits the UE s reception opportunities.

In semi persistent scheduling SPS the allocations are provided at 20 or 40 ms periodicity. During talk mode the benefits of SPS to the UE can be significant. For example the benefit can be approximately 20 based first pass estimates.

It is possible to provide SPS during the entire duration of a call as in voice over LTE VoLTE . However there are a number of issues with such an approach. For instance SPS affects the ability to statistically multiplex users. Additionally high loading situations can result in increases in outages for both GBR and non GBR users but provides flexibility to the eNB. Further providing SPS during the entire call allows for a mixture of modes such as dynamic scheduling and SPS. It can provide dynamic scheduling for downlink data for all listeners while providing SPS for subscribers who have a floor grant. This achieves the delay guarantees from the speaker s perspective but may not achieve the delay guarantees from the listener s perspective. As such this option is not as good as providing SPS for the entire call but it is better than providing dynamic scheduling for the entire call.

Finally providing SPS during the entire call allows the eNB to leverage floor grant information when performing uplink allocation. At the very least the eNB can delay scheduling requests from UEs that do not have the floor which may result in a performance hit for UE initiated signaling while not controlling floor.

At a UE and the MME D perform a service request procedure. At the UE transmits a PDN connectivity request to the MME D. The UE initiates the PDN connectivity request while seeking IPv4 assignment and DNS IP address assignment in the protocol configuration option PCO . At the UE and the PCRF D perform an optional authentication procedure. At the MME D transmits a create session response to the S GW D which at transmits a create session request to the P GW D.

In response the P GW D and the PCRF D perform an Internet Protocol Connectivity Access Network IP CAN session. Specifically at the P GW D sends a credit control CC request to the PCRF D and at the PCRF D sends a CC answer to the P GW D. During the IP CAN session the PCRF D detects the access point name APN of the PTT VoIP service and applies QCI signaling for the service to the default bearer and initiates a dedicated bearer with QCI media for the service.

At the P GW D creates a session response and a bearer request and sends them to the S GW D. This message includes the IPv4 address and DNS IP address provided by the P GW D in PCO. At the S GW D creates a session response and a bearer request used to create the S5 GTP tunnels and sends them to the MME D. At the MME D sends a bearer setup request to the eNB D. The eNB D issues a PDN connectivity acceptance and a dedicated bearer setup request.

At the UE and the eNB D perform a radio resource control RRC connection reconfiguration. At this time the UE receives the IPv4 address and DNS IP address provided by the P GW D in PCO. At the eNB D sends a bearer setup response to the MME D including the tunnel endpoint ID TEID of the eNB D. The MME D creates the GTP tunnels.

At the UE performs a direct transfer to the eNB D indicating that the PDN connectivity is complete. At the eNB D sends a PDN connectivity complete message to the MME D. At the MME D sends a modify bearer request to the S GW D. At the S GW D sends a create bearer response to the P GW D. At the S GW D sends a modify bearer response to the MME D.

At the default EPS bearer for the signaling traffic for the PTT VoIP service APN is established. At the dedicated EPS bearer for the media traffic for the PTT VoIP service APN is established.

The various aspects of the disclosure provide for the application server to communicate with the PCRF when a floor grant occurs. This may require a change in the receiver interface since the current QoS configuration is relatively static for the duration of the IP session regarding the definition of the receiver. The downstream interfaces from the PCRF may also be affected. Such interfaces include the Gx interface between the PCRF and the PDN the S5 interface between the PDN and the serving gateway the S11 interface between the serving gateway and the MME and the S1 MME interface between the MME and the eNB. The eNB applies SPS to the subscriber with the current floor grant which still requires talk mode detection. Also the DRX cycles should not need to be changed for PoC SPS as compared to VoLTE SPS .

At the UE and the eNB D exchange RRC connection reconfiguration request and RRC connection reconfiguration complete messages. At the eNB D and the MME D perform an initial context setup. The MME D sets up the evolved RABs for the non GBR EPS bearers with active S5 connections.

At the MME D sends a bearer resource command to the S GW D which sends a bearer resource command to the P GW PCRF D D. The bearer resource command includes a variable for the uplink and downlink speeds for the GBR EPS bearer for the PTT VoIP service and a dynamic QCI for the PTT VoIP service.

At the MME D and the P GW PCRF D D exchange create bearer request and create bearer response messages. The messages include an indication of the dynamic EPS bearer QoS QCI for the service. At the eNB D and the MME D exchange bearer setup request and bearer setup response messages. The request includes the dedicated EPS bearer QoS which includes the QCI specific to the PTT VoIP service and the uplink downlink GBR. The eNB D allocates the GBR and subscription profile repository SPR based on the loading. At the UE and the eNB D exchange RRC connection reconfiguration and RRC connection complete messages.

At the UE sends a floor request to the application server . At the application server sends a floor indication to the eNB D. At the UE and the eNB D exchange RRC connection reconfiguration and RRC connection complete messages. At the application server sends a QoS confirmation to the eNB D. Although depicted as such the messaging does not actually pass directly between the eNB D and the application server . At the application server sends and the UE receives a floor grant.

Although shows the QoS confirmation occurring before the floor grant the application server may send the floor grant before confirming the QoS.

At the application server determines a packet transmission state of a subscriber on the call. The packet transmission state may be that the subscriber has or has not received a floor grant as in a PoC call has or has not requested a floor grant or is or is not currently communicating. Currently communicating may include the subscriber currently speaking currently transmitting a media file or anything else where the subscriber is actively sending packets.

At the application server determines whether or not the subscriber is sending packets based on the determined transmission state of the subscriber. Determining whether or not the subscriber is sending packets may include determining whether or not the subscriber has received a floor grant for the call as in a PoC call determining whether or not the subscriber has requested a floor grant for the call or determining whether or not the subscriber is currently communicating. Determining whether or not the subscriber is currently communicating may include determining whether or not the subscriber is currently speaking or transmitting a media file.

If the subscriber is not sending packets the application server can wait until the subscriber begins sending packets and or check the packet transmission state of another subscriber on the call. If however the subscriber is sending packets then the flow proceeds to .

At the application server determines whether or not QoS is allocated to the subscriber. If it is then the flow ends. If however QoS is not allocated to the subscriber then the flow proceeds to .

At the application server optionally determines one or more criteria related to the call. The one or more criteria may include one or more criteria related to a network load or a service monetization. The one or more criteria related to the service monetization may include one or more criteria related to whether or not the subscriber will pay for the QoS. The one or more criteria related to the network load may include one or more criteria related to whether or not there is available network capacity to allocate the QoS to the subscriber. The application server may determine the one or more criteria after the subscriber has been admitted to the call.

At the application server allocates the QoS to the subscriber based on the subscriber sending packets the QoS not being allocated to the subscriber and optionally the one or more criteria related to the call. If the application server determines one or more criteria related to the call at the application server may allocate the QoS to the subscriber based on the one or more criteria by for example allocating the QoS if the subscriber will pay for it and not allocating the QoS if the subscriber will not pay for it. As another example the application server may allocate the QoS to the subscriber based on the one or more criteria by allocating the QoS if there is available network capacity and not allocating the QoS if there is not available network capacity.

At the application server provides a confirmation that the QoS was allocated to the subscriber as in of . The confirmation of the QoS allocation may be provided before or after a floor grant to the subscriber.

While the aspects above have been described primarily with reference to EPS architecture in LTE based networks it will be appreciated that other aspects can be directed to other types of network architectures and or protocols.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM flash memory ROM EPROM EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative aspects of the disclosure it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the aspects of the disclosure described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the disclosure may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

