---

title: Methods and systems for processing a video for stabilization using dynamic crop
abstract: Methods and systems for processing a video for stabilization are described. A recorded video may be stabilized by removing at least a portion of shake introduced in the video. An original camera path for a camera used to record the video may be determined. A crop window size may be selected, a crop window transform may accordingly be determined, and the crop window transform may be applied to the original video to provide a modified video from a viewpoint of the modified motion camera path.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09554043&OS=09554043&RS=09554043
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09554043
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140715
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 351 037 filed Jan. 16 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Video stabilization techniques may be used to improve recorded videos. With video cameras camera shake can cause visible frame to frame jitter in a recorded video. For example a handheld recorded video may be perceptibly shakier than a video recorded using a tripod mounted camera or other stabilization equipment such as camera dollies or steady cams due to motion of the operator holding the camera during recording. However recording videos using handheld video recording may enable more opportunities for filming.

Video stabilization techniques may be used to create a stable version of a casually shot video e.g. a video recorded on a device with little or no stabilization equipment . Video stabilization techniques generally attempt to render the recorded video as if the video would have been recorded from a smooth or stable camera path.

The present application discloses methods and systems for processing a video for stabilization using dynamic crop. In one aspect a method is described. The method may comprise estimating an original motion path of a camera that recorded a video. The method may also comprise selecting a crop window size less than a size of a video frame of the video. The method may further comprise determining a crop window transform to transform the original motion path of the camera to a modified motion camera path. A crop window associated with the crop window transform may be constrained to the crop window size. The method may also comprise determining a smoothness metric indicative of a degree of smoothness of the modified motion camera path. The method may further comprise applying the crop window transform to the video to provide a modified video from a viewpoint of the modified motion camera path based on comparison of the smoothness metric to a predetermined threshold.

In another aspect a non transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform functions is described. The functions may comprise an original motion path of a camera that recorded a video. The function may also comprise selecting a crop window size less than a size of a video frame of the video. The functions may further comprise determining a crop window transform to transform the original motion path of the camera to a modified motion camera path. A crop window associated with the crop window transform may be constrained to the crop window size. The functions may also comprise determining a smoothness metric indicative of a degree of smoothness of the modified motion camera path. The functions may further comprise applying the crop window transform to the video to provide a modified video from a viewpoint of the modified motion camera path based on comparison of the smoothness metric to a predetermined threshold.

In still another aspect a system is described. The system may comprise a camera path estimation module configured to receive a video and to estimate an original motion path of a camera that recorded the video. The system may also comprise a video stabilization module in communication with the camera path estimation module and may be configured to select a crop window size less than a size of a video frame of the video and to determine a crop window transform to transform the original motion path of the camera to a modified motion camera path. A crop window associated with the crop window transform may be constrained to the crop window size. The video stabilization module may further be configured to determine a smoothness metric indicative of a degree of smoothness of the modified motion camera path. The system may further comprise a video translation module in communication with the camera path estimation module and the video stabilization module and may be configured to apply the crop window transform to the video to provide a modified video from a viewpoint of the modified motion camera path based on comparison of the smoothness metric to a predetermined threshold.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the figures and the following detailed description.

The following detailed description describes various features and functions of the disclosed systems and methods with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures similar symbols identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative system and method embodiments described herein are not meant to be limiting. It may be readily understood that certain aspects of the disclosed systems and methods can be arranged and combined in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are contemplated herein.

This disclosure may disclose systems and methods for stabilizing videos. A recorded video may be stabilized by removing at least a portion of shake introduced in the video. An original camera path for a camera used to record the video may be determined. A crop window size may be selected and a crop window transform may accordingly be determined. The crop window transform may describe a transform of the original camera path to a modified camera path that is smoother than the original camera path. A smoothness metric indicative of a degree of smoothness of the modified path may be determined. Based on a comparison of the smoothness metric to a predetermined threshold for example the crop window transform may be applied to the original video to obtain a stabilized modified video.

In one example a video may be stabilized by performing post processing techniques. The video may be processed to estimate an original path e.g. motion of a camera that recorded the video to estimate a new steady smooth camera path and to recast the video from a viewpoint of the new smooth camera path. The steady or smooth camera path may dampen high frequency jitter and remove low frequency distortions that occur during handheld panning shots or videos recorded by a person walking for example.

In one example to estimate a new camera path a crop window transform may be determined that can be applied to the original path to obtain the new path. A size of a crop window associated with the crop window transform may be constrained to be less than a size of an original frame size. To determine an optimal crop window size an iterative method may be used where a goal of the iterative method may be to determine a smooth camera path while removing or cropping out a least amount of content possible.

A smoothness metric indicative of a degree of smoothness of the new path may be determined. Whether the crop window size may be optimal or not may be determined based on comparison of the smoothness metric to a predetermine threshold. For example if the smoothness metric exceeds a first predetermined threshold the crop window size may be optimal and the crop window transform may be applied to the video to obtain a modified video from the viewpoint of the new smooth camera path. If the smoothness metric does not exceed the first predetermined threshold a smaller crop window size may be selected and a respective smoothness metric may be determined for a respective new camera path. In an iterative manner successively smaller crop window sizes may be selected and successive smoothness metrics may be determined until the first predetermined threshold may be exceeded by a given smoothness metric corresponding to a given crop window size for example. In another example iterations with successively smaller crop window sizes may continue and a difference in value between two consecutive smoothness metrics associated with two respective crop window sizes may be compared to a second predetermined threshold to determine whether smaller crop window sizes may improve smoothness of respective camera paths or not.

As a result of the iterative method the optimal crop window size and a corresponding crop window transform may be determined and can be applied to the recorded video to recast the recorded video as if the video had been recorded from the smooth camera path to remove shake from the recorded video for example.

Referring now to the Figures illustrates a block diagram of an example optimal dynamic crop and video stabilization system . The system includes a camera path estimation module a video stabilization module in communication with the camera path estimation module and a video translation module in communication with the camera path estimation module and the video stabilization module . The system may be configured to receive a video from a camera and to perform video stabilization processes on the video. For example the camera path estimation module may be configured to estimate a path of a camera that recorded the video based on motion of background objects within the received video. The video stabilization module may then be configured to estimate a new steady smooth camera path and the video translation module may be configured to recast the received video from a viewpoint of the smooth camera path determined by the video stabilization module . Components of the system may be configured to work in an interconnected fashion with each other and or with other components coupled to respective systems.

In one example the camera path estimation module may be configured to estimate a path of a camera that recorded the video based on motion of background objects or frames within the received video. A camera path may be estimated by extracting trackable features in frames of the video matching features and performing local outlier rejection to remove spurious matches that may distort motion estimation. Linear motion models e.g. translation similarity affine may be fit to tracked features to estimate a motion of the camera between two frames and the motion models can be transformed to a common coordinate system and concatenated to yield an estimated original camera path over all frames of the video.

The video stabilization may be configured to estimate a new steady smooth camera path based on constraints. A smooth camera path can be estimated using minimization of derivatives of the original camera path as estimated by the camera path estimation module . For example a constant path may represent a static camera i.e.

In one example to estimate a camera path P t comprising segments of constant linear and parabolic motion an optimization may be performed as a constrained L minimization. For example an N dimensional vector norm of order p is defined as

In addition a camera path P t can be determined that minimizes the above derivatives while satisfying constraints. A variety of constraints may be used such as an inclusion proximity and saliency constraints. As an example of a constraint a crop window associated with a given crop window transform which may transform the original camera path to the modified camera path may be constrained to a given size.

The video stabilization module may be configured to use an iterative method to determine an optimal crop window size. A goal of the iterative method may be to determine a smooth camera path while removing or cropping out a least content possible.

In the iterative method the video stabilization module may be configured to select a crop window size and to determine a corresponding crop window transform that transforms the original path to a modified path. The video stabilization module may be configured to determine a smoothness metric indicative of a degree of smoothness of the modified path and to compare the smoothness metric to a first predetermined threshold to determine whether the crop window size selected may be optimal or not. In an example if the smoothness metric exceeds a first predetermined threshold then the crop window size may be designated as optimal. In the example if the smoothness metric does not exceed the first predetermined threshold a smaller crop window size may be selected and a respective smoothness metric may be determined for a respective modified path. In the example the video stabilization module may be configured to select successively smaller crop window sizes and to determine successive smoothness metrics until the first predetermined threshold may be exceeded by a given smoothness metric corresponding to a given crop window size. In the example the video stabilization module may also be configured to continue iterations using successively smaller crop window sizes and configured to compare a difference in value between two consecutive smoothness metrics associated with two respective crop window sizes to a second predetermined threshold to determine whether smaller crop window sizes may improve smoothness of respective modified camera paths or not. If comparison of the difference to the second predetermined threshold indicates that smaller crop window sizes may improve smoothness iterations may continue. If not then smaller crop window sizes may not improve smoothness enough to justify cropping out more content from the received video.

As a result of the iterative method the optimal crop window size and a corresponding optimal crop window transform may be determined. The video translation module may be configured to apply the optimal crop window transform to the recorded video to recast the recorded video as if the video had been recorded from the smooth camera path to remove shake from the recorded video for example.

One or more of the described functions or components of the system may be divided up into additional functional or physical components or combined into fewer functional or physical components. In some further examples additional functional and or physical components may be added to the examples illustrated by . Still further any of the camera path estimation module the video stabilization module and or the video translation module may include or be provided in the form of a processor e.g. a micro processor a digital signal processor DSP etc. configured to execute program code including one or more instructions for implementing logical functions described herein. The system may further include any type of computer readable medium non transitory medium or memory for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive to store the program code. In other examples the system may be included within other systems.

Turning to individual entities illustrated in each client A N may be used by a user to request video hosting services. For example a user can use the client A to send a request for uploading a video for sharing or playing a video. The clients A N can be any type of computer device such as a personal computer e.g. desktop notebook tablet laptop computer as well as devices such as a mobile telephone personal digital assistant or IP enabled video player. The clients A N may include a processor a display device or output to a display device and a local storage such as a hard drive or flash memory device to which the clients A N store data used by the user in performing tasks and a network interface for coupling to the video hosting service via the network .

The clients A N may include video players A N e.g. the Flash player from Adobe Systems Inc. or a proprietary one for playing a video stream. The video players A N may be standalone applications or a plug in to other applications such as a network or Internet browser. Where the client A N is a general purpose device e.g. a desktop computer mobile phone the players A N may be implemented as software executed by the computer. Where the clients A N are dedicated devices e.g. dedicated video players the players A N may be implemented in hardware or a combination of hardware and software. The players A N may include user interface controls and corresponding application programming interfaces for selecting a video feed starting stopping and rewinding a video feed. Also the players A N can include in a user interface a video display format selection configured to indicate a video display format e.g. a standard definition TV or a high definition TV . Other types of user interface controls e.g. buttons keyboard controls can be used as well to control the playback and video format selection functionality of the players A N.

The network enables communications between the clients A N and the video hosting service . In one example the network is the Internet and uses standardized internetworking communications technologies and protocols known now or subsequently developed that enable the clients A N to communicate with the video hosting service . In another example the network may be a wireless cellular network that enables wireless communication between the clients A N and the video hosting service .

The video hosting service comprises an optimal dynamic crop and video stabilization system a video server an ingest server and a video database . The video server may be configured to serve videos from the video database in response to user video hosting service requests. The ingest server may be configured to receive user uploaded videos and store the videos in the video database . The video database may be configured to store user uploaded videos and videos processed by the optimal dynamic crop and video stabilization system . In one example the video database stores a large video corpus.

The optimal dynamic crop and video stabilization system may include a camera path estimation module a video stabilization module and a video translation module . The system may be configured to receive user uploaded videos from the ingest server and to perform video stabilization of the videos.

The video hosting service may be configured to receive a video from a client of the clients A N and receive a single command by a single action of a user of the client requesting a stabilized video. Based on the single command the optimal dynamic crop and video stabilization system coupled to the video hosting service may be configured to process the video to determine an optimal crop window size and accordingly determine an optimal crop window transform to recast the video from a viewpoint of a corresponding optimal camera path. A stabilized modified video recast from the viewpoint of the optimal camera path may then be provided to the user. In another example the user may manually select a given crop window size and request from the video hosting service to recast the video into a given modified video using the given crop window manually selected.

The method may include one or more operations functions or actions as illustrated by one or more of blocks . Although the blocks are illustrated in a sequential order these blocks may in some instances be performed in parallel and or in a different order than those described herein. Also the various blocks may be combined into fewer blocks divided into additional blocks and or removed based upon the desired implementation

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium or memory for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include a non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media or memory such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium a tangible storage device or other article of manufacture for example.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block the method includes receive a recorded video. A camera may have recorded a video for example and the video may have been uploaded to and received at a device such as a computer laptop mobile phone etc. or a server.

At block the method includes estimate an original motion path of the camera that recorded the video. A processor or a computing device coupled to the device or server receiving the video may estimate a path of a camera that recorded the video based on motion of objects or images within the received video. A camera path may be estimated by extracting trackable features in frames of the video matching features and performing local outlier rejection to remove spurious matches that may distort motion estimation. Linear motion models e.g. translation similarity affine may be fit to the tracked features to estimate a motion of the camera between two frames and the motion models can be transformed to a common coordinate system and concatenated to yield an estimated original camera path over all frames of the video. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other algorithms and arrangements and other elements can be used to estimate the original motion path of the camera.

Camera shake can cause visible frame to frame jitter in a recorded video. For example a handheld recorded video may be perceptibly shakier than a video recorded using a tripod mounted camera due to motion of the operator holding the camera during recording e.g. the operator may be riding a car while recording the video . shows an example original camera path that illustrates such camera shake. A video recorded from a camera moving according to the original camera path may include shaky video portions that may require stabilization.

At block the method includes select a crop window size and determine a first crop window transform that modifies the original motion path of the camera to a first modified motion camera path. To stabilize the video the processor may be configured to determine a smooth or optimal modified camera path. For example the smooth or optimal camera path P t can be partitioned into three segments where only one may be present at each time t a constant path representing a static camera i.e. 

A steady or smooth camera path motion can be estimated by performing an L optimization with imposed constraints. An example constraint may include constraining the crop window associated with the crop window transform B t to a crop window size selected at block e.g. 95 of a given video frame size . The optimization may determine a stable camera path P t by minimizing an objective function 

In one example minimizing the objective function and determination of the modified motion camera path may include sampling every frame of the received video and performing computations on every frame. Alternatively to possibly improve computational efficiency frames of the receive video may be temporally subsampled by a factor k as an example. In the example a ktransform for kframe may be replaced by a concatenation of previous k transforms. Temporal subsampling may accordingly comprise minimizing a modified objective function 

Referring back to an example optimal camera path is illustrated. The optimal camera path may remove portions of the jitter and high frequency motion included in the original camera path for example.

Referring back to at block for the selected crop window size a first crop window transform and a first modified path may be determined by minimizing the objective function O P expressed in equation 2 or equation 4 . The objective function evaluated at the first modified path may be expressed as O P . The smoother the first modified path the smaller the first objective function O P .

At block the method includes determine a first smoothness metric for the first modified motion camera path. For the first modified path determined at block a first smoothness metric can be determined. A first smoothness metric corresponding to the objective function evaluated at the first modified path O P may be expressed as S P . The first smoothness metric may for example be a function of O P . As a specific example since the smaller an objective function value the smoother a corresponding modified path may be a smoothness metric may include a reciprocal of the objective function evaluated at the corresponding modified path. In this specific example the smaller the objective function evaluated at the corresponding modified path the larger the reciprocal of the objective function and thus the larger the smoothness metric. Other functions that may produce a value indicative of a degree of smoothness of a given modified path may be possible.

At decision block the method may include determining whether the first smoothness metric associated with the first modified path exceeds a first predetermined threshold. The processor may compare the first smoothness metric S P determined at block to a first predetermined threshold. In one example the first predetermined threshold may represent an absolute level of smoothness that may indicate how close the first modified path may be to being a constant path. For example an objective function value O P close to zero may indicate that the first modified path may be close to being a constant path. An objective function value close to zero e.g. below about 0.002 or a corresponding smoothness metric e.g. greater than about 500 may be chosen as the first predetermined threshold for example. Other values may be chosen. In other examples the objective function value may be chosen as a smoothness indicator and the method at block may include determining whether the objective function value as a smoothness indicator may be below a given threshold or not. Exceeding the first predetermined threshold is used in describing block of the method for illustration only. Generally the smoothness metric may be compared to a given threshold to determine how close the first modified path may be to being a constant path.

At block the method includes apply first crop window transform to recorded video. For example if the first smoothness metric compares favorably with the first predetermined threshold e.g. the first smoothness metric S P exceeds the first predetermined threshold or alternatively the objective function O P is below a given threshold the crop window size may be designated as optimal and the processor may apply the first crop window transform to the received video to provide a modified smoother video from the viewpoint of the first modified path. The crop window associated with the first crop window transform B t and constrained to the crop window size selected and determined to be optimal may be applied to frames of the received video to remove spatial content within the frames and stabilize the received video.

Referring now to at block the method includes select a smaller crop window size e.g. 90 . In an example exceeding the first predetermined threshold may not be possible with the crop window size selected at block and a second smaller crop window size may be selected to remove more content from the frames of the received video to stabilize the received video.

At block the method includes determine a second crop window transform that modifies the original motion path of the camera to a second modified motion camera path. The processor may determine a second crop window transform corresponding to the smaller crop window size selected. The second crop window transform may modify the original motion path of the camera to a second modified motion camera path.

At block the method includes determine a second smoothness metric for the second modified motion camera path. The processor may determine a second smoothness metric S P corresponding to the second modified motion camera path. The second smoothness metric S P may be indicative of a degree of smoothness of the second modified motion camera path and may include a function of the objective function O P evaluated at the second modified motion camera path.

At block the method determines whether the second smoothness metric S P exceeds the first predetermined threshold. Similar to description at block the second smoothness metric may be compared to the first predetermined threshold which may represent the absolute level of smoothness and may indicate how close the second modified path may be to being a constant path.

At block the method includes apply the second crop window transform to recorded video. For example if the second smoothness metric compares favorably with the first predetermined threshold e.g. the second smoothness metric S P exceeds the first predetermined threshold or alternatively the objective function value O P is below a given threshold the smaller second crop window size may be designated as optimal and the processor may apply the second crop window transform to the received video to provide a modified smoother video from the viewpoint of the second modified path.

At block the method determines whether a ratio between the first smoothness metric and the second smoothness metric exceeds a second predetermined threshold. A change in value between the first smoothness metric and the second smoothness metric may be determined to evaluate an effect of choosing the smaller crop window size on smoothness of the modified path and thus the received video. In one example the change can be determined by evaluating a difference in value between the first smoothness metric and the second smoothness metric. In another example a ratio between the first smoothness metric and the second smoothness metric may be determined to indicate a relative smoothness of the second modified path as compared to the first modified path. The ratio between the first smoothness metric and the second smoothness metric may be determined and compared to a second predetermined threshold rthat may be referred to as a relative smoothness threshold. The ratio between the first and the second smoothness metrics may be expressed as

At block the method includes apply the first crop window transform to recorded video. For example if the ratio determined at block compares favorably with the second predetermined threshold

If at block the method determines that the ratio between the first smoothness metric and the second smoothness metric does not exceed the second predetermined threshold iterations may continue by selecting an even smaller crop window size and repeating steps in the method until either of conditions described at blocks or may be met. That is until either a given smoothness metric exceeds the first predetermined absolute smoothness threshold or the ratio between two smoothness metrics corresponding to two successive crop window sizes exceeds the second predetermined relative smoothness threshold.

In a relative smoothness threshold r 0.8 is indicated by dashed lines. A change in value of the objective function value may be compared to the relative smoothness threshold rby determining whether a solid line is locally above or below a dashed line. For example a ratio between two objective function values corresponding to two consecutive crop window sizes that is less than the relative smoothness threshold rmay be indicated by a solid line being locally below a dashed line. A ratio that is greater than the relative smoothness threshold rmay be indicated by the solid line being locally above the dashed line.

As a specific example in a change in the objective function value between the two consecutive crop window sizes 80 and 75 is greater than the relative smoothness threshold

In some examples the received video may have been a stable video except for a given portion of the received video that may be shaky. For instance the received video may have recorded from a camera held by a user riding in a car and the car ride may have been smooth except for hitting a series of bumps that may cause the camera to shake and for a video being recorded by the camera to include a shaky portion. A global optimal crop window size for the video as a whole may be determined using the method for example. However the global optimal crop window size may be determined to crop out content from the video to stabilize the video in the shaky portion of the video but also removing content from other parts of the video that may have been stable.

As an alternative to determining the global optimal crop window the received video may be divided into multiple segments and an optimal crop window size may be determined for each segment. Each segment may include a sequence of several frames. Temporal partitions may be used such that each segment may be of a given length in time e.g. about 3 5 seconds . Any temporal partition can be used and the segments may or may not be of the same length of time or include the same number of frames.

An optimal crop window determined for a segment of the video including the shaky portion may be small e.g. 75 of an original video frame size to stabilize the shaky portion of the video while optimal crop windows for other segments may be large e.g. 95 of original video frame size since the other segments may have been more stable and smoother than the segment including the shaky portion. Determining different crop window sizes for different video segments of a video may be referred to as dynamic cropping.

For example shows an original frame obtained from an original first video segment of a video and shows a modified frame after an optimal crop window that is 80 of the original frame size is applied to the original frame in . The optimal crop window may for example have been estimated by the method . Also shows an original frame obtained from an original second video segment of the video and shows a modified frame after an optimal crop window that is 85 of the original frame size is applied to the original frame in . Similarly shows an original frame obtained from an original third video segment of the video and shows a modified frame after an optimal crop window that is 90 of the original frame size is applied to the original frame in . Also shows an original frame obtained from an original fourth video segment of the video and shows a modified frame after an optimal crop window that is 95 of the original frame size is applied to the original frame in . Optimal crop window sizes may suggest that the original second video segment may be smoother than the original first video segment since an optimal crop window size determined for the original first video segment is smaller than the optimal crop window size determined for the original second video segment. Similarly the original third video segment may be smoother or more stable than the original second video segment and the original fourth video segment may be smoother or more stable than the original third video segment. In a given crop window may be rotated about the z axis or translated with respect to a center of a respective original frame depending on a respective crop window transform determined for a respective video segment.

In one example to achieve consistency across clips a video may be divided into more than one video segment such that a given portion of two consecutive video segments overlap for a predetermined period of time. In the given portion a second modified motion camera path for a second video segment of the two consecutive video segments may be determined by scaling a first modified motion camera path determined for the first video segment of the two consecutive video segments. A first optimal crop window size cmay be determined for the first segment and a second optimal crop window size cmay be determined for the second segment. The second modified motion camera path Pof the second video segment may be constrained in the given portion overlapping the first segment to be P P S where S may be defined as a similarity or a scaling transform with a uniform scale

Depending on the desired configuration the system memory can be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. System memory may include one or more applications and program data . Application may include optimal and dynamic crop algorithm that is arranged to provide inputs to the electronic circuits in accordance with the present disclosure. Program Data may include content information that could be directed to any number of types of data. In some example embodiments application can be arranged to operate with program data on an operating system.

Computing device can have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and any devices and interfaces. For example data storage devices can be provided including removable storage devices non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Computer storage media can include volatile and nonvolatile non transitory removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

System memory and storage devices are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media can be part of device .

Computing device can also include output interfaces that may include a graphics processing unit which can be configured to communicate to various external devices such as display devices or speakers via one or more A V ports or a communication interface . The communication interface may include a network controller which can be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices and one or more sensors over a network communication via one or more communication ports . The one or more sensors are shown external to the computing device but may also be internal to the device. The communication connection is one example of a communication media. Communication media may be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. A modulated data signal can be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media can include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared IR and other wireless media.

Computing device can be implemented as a portion of a small form factor portable or mobile electronic device such as a cell phone a personal data assistant PDA a personal media player device a wireless web watch device a personal headset device an application specific device or a hybrid device that include any of the above functions. Computing device can also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations.

In some embodiments the disclosed methods may be implemented as computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable storage media in a machine readable format or on other non transitory media or articles of manufacture. is a schematic illustrating a conceptual partial view of an example computer program product that includes a computer program for executing a computer process on a computing device arranged according to at least some embodiments presented herein. In one embodiment the example computer program product is provided using a signal bearing medium . The signal bearing medium may include one or more program instructions that when executed by one or more processors may provide functionality or portions of the functionality described above with respect to . Thus for example referring to the embodiments shown in one or more features of blocks may be undertaken by one or more instructions associated with the signal bearing medium . In addition the program instructions in describe example instructions as well.

In some examples the signal bearing medium may encompass a computer readable medium such as but not limited to a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape memory etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium may encompass a computer recordable medium such as but not limited to memory read write R W CDs R W DVDs etc. In some implementations the signal bearing medium may encompass a communications medium such as but not limited to a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. . Thus for example the signal bearing medium may be conveyed by a wireless form of the communications medium e.g. a wireless communications medium conforming to the IEEE 802.11 standard or other transmission protocol .

The one or more programming instructions may be for example computer executable and or logic implemented instructions. In some examples a computing device such as the computing device of may be configured to provide various operations functions or actions in response to the programming instructions conveyed to the computing device by one or more of the computer readable medium the computer recordable medium and or the communications medium . It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

