---

title: Programmatic data discovery platforms for computing applications
abstract: Systems, methods and techniques for discovering, managing and/or representing data are described. In particular, systems and methods for acquiring, representing, and disseminating data independently of, for example, the nature of the data sources or the data storage infrastructure, are described. Such discovery, management and/or representation may be enabled by various manners of integration into pre-existing network architecture, enabled via system(s) or method(s) implemented remotely from pre-existing network architecture, and/or enabled via programmatic integration into existing computing applications such as Web applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09336332&OS=09336332&RS=09336332
owner: CLIPCARD INC.
number: 09336332
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140109
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 871 256 filed Aug. 28 2013 which application is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to the following copending patent applications U.S. application Ser. No. 14 151 760 U.S. application Ser. No. 14 151 772 U.S. application Ser. No. 14 151 759 and U.S. application Ser. No. 14 151 770 which applications are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each individual application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

As human knowledge increases in scope and complexity the amount of information generated therefrom grows at an astounding rate. The proportion of information generating devices and methodologies continues to increase as does the general connectivity of such devices and methodologies. As a result the amount and complexity of data representing a given concept also tends to increase over time thus accelerating the overall growth in the size and complexity of data sets across diverse applications. However the ability to process big data as such ponderously large and complex data sets are commonly known is often limited by both time and computing resource constraints. Furthermore big data also encompasses collections of data sets in which the individual data assets may not be overwhelmingly large or complex but the total volume velocity variety etc. of incoming data limit the ability of user entities to derive meaningful information from such data. These collective limitations constitute the fundamental problem underlying big data.

Methodologies for mitigating such constraints are in continuous development. For example network connected distributed computing systems known as cloud computing systems provide scalable massively parallelized and aggregated compute resources such as databases disk storage processing capability and the like. Cloud computing systems provide access to considerably greater computing resources than they might otherwise be able to privately procure and or administer thus providing for the use storage and manipulation of big data associated therewith to a far greater population of users with limited local resources.

However cloud computing is by its nature a brute force solution for dealing with the sheer scale of big data. Other logistical issues such as the length of time involved in getting the data into and out of a cloud computing system in the first instance as well as the abilities of enterprises human entities and the like to quickly efficiently determine or ascertain the contents of big data generally remain and become increasingly important as emerging technologies and collaboration models enable greater numbers of e.g. non institutional users to participate in the creation management and dissemination of the concepts underlying the data as well as the data itself . Additionally as the scope of information generation grows broader over time the number of disparate data formats and types between data sets and at times within a given data set increases.

Techniques described suggested and implied herein include systems and methods for storing accessing sharing and or otherwise managing information using representative abstracts of that information. In some embodiments a data discovery platform is implemented to provide a unified entity for indexing summarizing navigating discovering and or disseminating data originating from a plurality of heterogeneous data sources. The term data discovery platform may also be used interchangeably herein with the term data management system and may include multiple components some of which are described in further detail herein. Examples of such components include summary and navigation layers abstraction layers abstraction systems and central abstract repositories. The data discovery platforms described herein may provide various facilities for improving the comprehensibility of information originating from a plurality of disparate data sources such as information associated with big data. For example such data discovery platforms may provide visually representable abstractions of big data in order to allow users to more rapidly grasp the key concepts and information encompassed by such data. Additionally the disclosed data discovery platforms may provide a unified entity within an existing system architecture for the management of heterogeneous data assets such as for the purposes of data organization indexing searching dissemination and the like. Furthermore some embodiments of the data discovery platforms described herein may assist users in discovering and connecting to data sources of interest as well as relevant data associated entities e.g. data creators data owners experts other users with similar interests etc. associated with such data sources thereby facilitating the process of information discovery data sharing and decision making.

The data operated upon by a data discovery platform may include streaming and or real time data static or dynamic data structured or unstructured data data files collections of data files data sets and the like and any of the foregoing may derive from any appropriate data source or asset. Examples of such data sources include databases web services applications data stores or storage systems such as virtualized or cloud storage systems or physical hard disk drives live data feeds data streams data collecting and or data generating devices such as sensor platforms such as unmanned vehicles e.g. unmanned aerial vehicles weather observation platforms buoys underwater platforms robotic manufacturing devices wind turbines oil or gas wellheads motion sensors and the like knowledge management systems directories social media and the like. The data operated on may in some embodiments be generated automatically by the asset s . In some embodiments the data operated on may relate to or be derived from one or more functional outputs parameters or characteristics of the data source s or asset s . In some embodiments the data may be derived or sourced from any Internet facing or Internet visible source e.g. a Web enabled endpoint some examples of which are provided herein.

The data discovery platform described herein may implement any suitable strategy for abstracting and or summarizing the data in order to provide an efficient compact representation of the information encompassed by the data. For example a data discovery platform may employ metadata extraction analysis indexing and or data modeling schemes to complex heterogeneous and or very large data files or sets or supersets of data files so as to ease the handling processing and dissemination of the data. It is contemplated that such extraction and or modeling schemes may be applied to any data type asset size or source as well as abstractions thereof such as metadata . The representations produced by the data discovery platforms may also be referred to herein as abstracts data abstracts data summaries information abstracts information summaries and the like. Abstracts may incorporate and or be based on ancillary data derived from the source data with the ancillary data including information representative of the content structure context associations or any other relevant characteristics of the source data. For example the abstracts may be based on metadata extracted associated generated or otherwise derived from the source data. The term metadata as used herein may refer to any data or content derived or derivable from other data or content including both structural metadata and descriptive metadata. Examples include data or content regarding the manner of creation intended purpose origin location in any sense including relative absolute topological virtual or geographical associations with other data assets structure of other data or content and or interoperability of the data with extrinsic applications. Such metadata may be in some instances compliant with a predetermined metadata format or standard. The abstracts generated by the data discovery platform may also be based on metrics analytics summaries indices identifiers and or models derived from the source data for instance using the data extraction analysis indexing and or modeling schemes described herein. Any description herein relating to metadata may also be applied to any ancillary data derived from source data.

The ancillary data sets useable for generating abstracts may be derived from the source data by the data discovery platform. Alternatively or in addition some or all of these ancillary data sets may be derived from the source data by another entity and subsequently provided to the data discovery platform. Such entities may include for example a data provider which may refer to any entity that provides data including but not limited to servers systems users data creators or the like as well as any constituents groups or organizations related thereto e.g. users of such systems and or employees of such data creators . In another example the data discovery platform may receive data sets from an indexing engine which may refer to any entity that operates on source data and or data sources to produce the ancillary data sets described herein such as systems software applications users and the like. The term indexing engine may be used interchangeably with like terms such as data profiler data surveyor data indexer data extraction entity or data harvester. In some embodiments ancillary data sets provided by an indexing engine may be converted refined or otherwise processed by the data discovery platform to conform to a specified format or standard used by the data discovery platform for generating abstracts.

The generated abstracts may be created in a uniform fashion and or made available in a common medium independently of the underlying data type or source from which they are generated. In some embodiments the representative abstracts generated based on the ancillary data may be specifically adapted for visually displaying information to a human user entity e.g. on a suitable visual interface of a device . Such abstracts may be referred to as visually representable or visualizable abstracts and any descriptions herein relating to abstracts may also be applied to visually representable abstracts. Visually representable abstracts may provide a succinct representation of the source data thus enabling users to quickly comprehend the data without having to access and directly examine the data. Any combination of elements within such abstracts may in some embodiments be visually represented e.g. with maps charts graphs outlines images videos and other visual assets with different combinations or subcombinations shown depending on context user preference etc. The abstract and or the visual representation thereof may be augmented or supplanted by third parties. For example one or more visual representation s of the abstract may include facilities whereby third parties such as data providers or indexing engines may directly provide to augment the visual representation additional content relevant to the data being represented. Advantageously such visually representable abstracts may enhance the clarity and comprehensibility of data such as very large or complex data sets which may otherwise be opaque to human users. Furthermore visually representable abstracts may facilitate interaction with and manipulation of the data. For example abstracts derived from data may be visually represented e.g. on a map and or in an aggregated format such that users may differentiate and or select the underlying data based on the visual representation e.g. meta visualization or meta analytics .

In addition to acting as a visual presentation layer the abstracts generated by the data discovery platform may be used as a basis for managing source data e.g. the organization presentation dissemination marketing searching monitoring and similar activities related thereto . For example metadata or other ancillary data derived stored and or acquired by the data discovery platform may be employed to generate representative abstracts of data which in turn may be used as the basis of managing that data. In some embodiments the abstracts may include searchable identifiers e.g. tags and or access modalities e.g. links to related abstracts thereby facilitating data search discovery and navigation. As another example the abstracts may include facilities e.g. links for providing access to the source data. Consequently the abstracts may be used to control access to the data e.g. by employees clients etc. . The abstracts may be shared between users e.g. via social networks email links and the like regardless of the form location infrastructure and or organization of the underlying data assets so that the associated data set s themselves need not be moved or transferred in order to be accessed by other users. Thus the sharing of abstracts may in some embodiments be agnostic and independent of changes to the underlying data. Additionally the actions associated with sharing abstracts e.g. via social networks email links and the like may be tracked by the data discovery platform so as to internally develop a network representing relationships between users. Furthermore in some embodiments the data discovery platform may be configured to monitor the source data for the occurrence of specified events and provide abstracts and or notifications representative of such events to users.

Furthermore the data discovery platform may be used to generate abstracts representing other types of information besides data assets such as other abstracts human or other creative entities e.g. the data provider or owner or groups or collections thereof. Such facilities may for example be used to create an abstract that summarizes an entire collection of a given data creator s other abstracts and thus effectively be a summary of that data creator. Other metadata or ancillary data may be inferred from these relationships. In the example just described the system may infer that the data creator is an expert based on the metadata generated from its interactions with the system e.g. the nature and quantity of their data holdings the nature and quantity of the abstracts created etc. . Thus an abstract generated for the data creator effectively summarizes the data creator so as to create a searchable index of the data and expertise held by that data creator. Such facilities may apply to a data creator at any level within a given informational hierarchy. In some embodiments the data creators data providers and other users represented by such hierarchically organized abstracts are human entities. In such embodiments abstracts associated with such data creators data providers and or users may represent a cumulative summary of the associated entity s human expertise based on the metadata associated with the abstract e.g. the tags use analytics etc. . Similarly collections or taxonomies of such abstracts may represent and or summarize the human expertise of the group of entities represented by such collections or taxonomies. In some embodiments a given abstract itself may also represent groups collections or taxonomies of human entities. For example an abstract representing a group of human entities may be derived from individual abstracts representing one or more of the human entities within the group and thus summarize the expertise of the group itself as well as the data assets associated with each of the human entities. It is contemplated that such a group may involve any organization of human entities such as a functional working group an enterprise a corporate division or a cross functional interest group.

The data discovery platform described herein may be implemented within any suitable environment and across any combination of data provider s distributed computing system s entities and or standalone entities and or hardware. For example the data discovery platform may be implemented as a layer between an information source and or source data e.g. provided by a data provider and a distributed computing service provider and by using one or more of the abstraction strategies described herein e.g. metadata extraction and or data modeling schemes provide the data provider with an efficient compact representation of its data holdings as well as pass through the well known advantages of storing data via a distributed computing service such as scalability economy ubiquity of access reliability and the like. Such techniques may also include one or more facilities for streamlining the processing of a data provider s data holdings by decreasing the local resources e.g. of the data provider necessary to do so. Furthermore a data discovery platform may expose user account functionality to data providers in order to for example control access to the data by employees clients or others. Notably the data discovery platform does not typically modify the underlying data holdings during the creation management and manipulation of abstracts thereby facilitating integration of the data discovery platform into the data provider s existing ecosystem.

A distributed computing resource provider may implement a plurality of computing resources such as data stores processors storage devices memory and the like as well an abstraction layer that allows for example virtualized and or machine instances e.g. those that have direct hardware access including bare metal and or other hardware instances to run independently of the underlying computing resources. Such resource independent instances are herein referred to as virtual machines though the term contemplates not only virtual instances but also machine instances. The data discovery platform may be implemented as a separate entity from that of the distributed computing resource s or in some embodiments some or all components of the data discovery platform may be implemented by the distributed computing resource provider as or upon such as virtual machines exposed therefrom. In some embodiments the data discovery platform may be implemented within a private environment such as on a data provider s existing hardware and or within a data provider s existing network architecture e.g. behind the firewall . The data discovery platform may be implemented upon virtualized computing instances e.g. virtual machines or may in the alternative be provided as a discrete physical hardware appliance. The system is configurable to use any data store e.g. data storage hardware or virtualized storage a data creator or system integrator elects. For example the system may be configured to use preexisting private storage hardware public cloud storage facilities or a combination of the two.

The data discovery platform may be configured to receive requests from the user e.g. via a user application to generate representative abstracts of source data. Such source data may include data assets stored in a user data storage system which may be a storage subsystem on the user s local machine. In some examples the user may initiate a request for abstract generation by transferring data assets from the user data storage system to the data discovery platform e.g. to an associated data store of the system such as the data storage system . Alternatively or in addition the user may initiate a request by providing the data discovery platform with data identifiers associated with the data assets. Such data identifiers may include for example metadata location information and or descriptive tags for the data assets as well as any other data sets of the data asset enabling the data discovery platform to locate and connect to the data assets within the user data storage system . The data discovery platform may process the user data assets to generate ancillary data thereof e.g. metadata and use the ancillary data to create abstracts representative of the data assets. In some embodiments the data identifiers provided by the user may already include ancillary data useable for abstract generation or include information enabling the data discovery platform to locate preexisting ancillary data associated with the data assets. In such instances abstract generation may occur without necessitating the transfer of the user data assets themselves to the data discovery platform .

In some embodiments the user may also initiate abstract generation from data assets through a third party application interacting with the data discovery platform via a suitable application programming interface API exposed by an implemented system . An example API may allow any authorized third party application to create abstracts by pushing via the API static or rich media objects analytical data file locations tags user defined data or any other suitable data type. For example the user may provide an authorized third party application with data assets and or data identifiers of the data assets and the third party application may request abstract creation by pushing relevant data via the API to the data discovery platform . Such relevant data may include the data assets themselves metadata and or other ancillary data derived from the data assets data identifiers or any other data relevant to abstract generation. Alternatively or in addition the third party application may actively create data e.g. under the direction of the user and directly transmit the data to the data discovery platform . Such an API may be integrated with the third party application in any appropriate manner. For example the API may include a facility to extract key data e.g. metadata for common or standard e.g. predefined data formats so as to ease integration into the third party application as well as improve the quality of the resultant abstract. In some examples the API may also include a facility for defining different levels of permission customizability based on the nature of the third party application as well as the data provider or user associated with the third party application .

Once created the abstracts may be stored by the data discovery platform e.g. in the data storage system for future access such that the data discovery platform also serves as a central repository for generated abstracts. The created abstract may be saved in such a fashion e.g. as an HTML or similar object so as to enable further use of the asset by the committing user such by displaying the abstract to the user in an appropriate application e.g. via a suitable user interface such as a web browser or other application . In some embodiments similar functionality may be integrated within proprietary applications so as to connect such applications and transact data assets and other information between the applications and the system. The created abstract may be updated or manipulated in any fashion as described in further detail elsewhere herein. In some embodiments once an abstract is created using the API the API may return a preview image or other information representing the created abstract back to the third party application that provided the data for display to the user. The API may also provide users data creators and other entities the ability to embed created abstracts as well as other related functionality e.g. search functions into third party applications websites media content and the like.

Individual users may connect to and access the data discovery platform from within the private environment . Alternatively in some embodiments authorized users may also be able to connect to the data discovery platform from outside the private environment . Similar to the embodiments described herein with respect to the users may initiate abstract generation based on user data assets of a user data storage subsystem either through direct requests to the data discovery platform or indirectly through a third party application interacting with the data discovery platform via a suitable API. In some instances the data discovery platform may feature client side integration with local user machines. For example the data discovery platform may allow connected users e.g. individual users on a network connecting to the system to integrate the system s functionality with their local applications and or operating system so as to for instance manipulate files folders and other source data within and to the system in a fashion similar to performing the same actions on local hardware. In some of such examples when a user commits a data asset or any other data relevant to abstract generation to the data discovery platform from their local machine that asset is transferred to the system and an abstract is created. The transferred asset is then be either deleted or routed to an existing storage subsystem e.g. the data storage systems as the system administrator data creator or user may determine. In another example one or more components of the data discovery platform may be installed on the local user machine. Accordingly abstract generation may be a local process occurring entirely on the user machine without necessitating any transfer of data to an external entity.

The data discovery platform may be further connected to a plurality of data sources of the data provider and such data sources may be situated within the private environment stored in public cloud storage or combinations thereof. For example the data sources may be data files databases directories or other assets of an enterprise. In some embodiments the data discovery platform may be integrated into the data provider s or data creator s existing database infrastructure and or middleware so as to act as a virtual central repository of the data provider s data holdings e.g. as represented by the generated abstracts through which requests related to data storage dissemination and management may be channeled. For example the data discovery platform when integrated in this fashion may be configured to automatically create and store abstracts for any data sources connected to the system and or data passing through the system e.g. based on metadata and other ancillary data derived from the data sources as described elsewhere herein . Such abstract creation may occur in a batch process without requiring specific user requests or other user initiated positive interaction. Furthermore by providing a central repository of representative abstracts the data discovery platform may itself act as an abstraction layer for the interaction between a data provider users and the underlying storage infrastructure in that neither the abstract nor the user need be concerned with the underlying storage infrastructure of the source data e.g. the data sources may include data stored across different infrastructures and in different forms or locations . For example using the abstracts users may rapidly navigate through the totality of the data provider s data holdings without having to access each data source and source data asset individually.

In such embodiments where file based data assets are transacted between the data provider and or user and the data discovery platform one or more approaches may be implemented to process the transacted assets in a file format specific fashion. In some embodiments the transacted asset is parsed using a preprocessor or other type of data reading facility that resides at or topologically near the source of the data asset e.g. at the data provider s or user s computer system upon which the asset presently resides in the data discovery platform itself or some combination thereof e.g. different types of file types handled by preprocessors at different topological locations . The preprocessor may ingest the asset e.g. one or more data files so as to determine the type of file being ingested and extract one or more sets of metadata or other ancillary data compliant with the determined file type. Such a preprocessor may be developed provided specified and or integrated by any appropriate entity such as the data provider a maintainer of the asset itself or an entity associated with a standards body.

In some embodiments the preprocessor may rely on various existing functionalities of the application operating system or other system with which the data discovery platform is being integrated. For example one potential implementation may include attaining basic metadata known to the client e.g. file names file sizes file dates and the like as well as more detailed metadata for specific file types already known to the system e.g. in the case of JPEG images EXIF information pixel dimensions and the like . Such an implementation may be augmented by a server or abstraction system side preprocessor for other file types thereby using a multitiered approach to metadata modeling and extraction for optimal efficiency.

The data discovery platform may interface with the heterogeneous data sources via one or more indexing engines . As previously described herein the indexing engines may encompass any intermediary entity operating on the heterogeneous data sources in order to generate ancillary data representative thereof. The indexing engines may be implemented in some examples to access and read data from the data sources derive ancillary data from the data sources and then provide the ancillary data to a downstream entity. The derivation of ancillary data by the indexing engines may involve one or more data analysis and or processing steps such as extraction of metadata from the data indexing the data for searching tagging the data with one or more predefined tags representative of the content of the data filtering the data to remove unwanted or irrelevant data summarizing the data to aggregate multiple data items collections analysis of the data content to generate representative metrics and or analytics and the like. Furthermore the indexing engines may include other functionalities in addition to data abstraction such supporting data search across the generated search indices performing metering of data passing through the indexing engines and or generating notifications or alerts related to the heterogeneous data sources .

For example the indexing engines may include one or more data connectors employed to monitor the heterogeneous data sources and generate an initial abstraction of the data encompassed by the heterogeneous data sources . Such data connectors may encompass suitable applications and or middleware e.g. preexisting metadata indexing products provided by third parties configured specifically to interface with the heterogeneous data sources . For example at least some of the data connectors may possess knowledge of the specific format standards or structure of data from the heterogeneous data sources and may use this knowledge as a basis for abstracting the data provided by the data sources . As another example at least some of the data connectors may be customized based on the specific type of the associated data source such that different types of data sources are abstracted by different types of indexing engines. The data connectors may be configured to perform data related functionalities such as indexing tagging metering and or alerting as described above.

In embodiments where the human data sources are provided separately from the heterogeneous data sources the indexing engines may include one or more people connectors separate from the data connectors . Such people connectors may be adapted specifically to operate on human profile data provided from the human data sources in order to generate abstractions of data representative of human entities. Such human entities may include data creators users employees clients experts and other individuals as well as groups organizations or associations composed of a plurality of individuals. Relevant human profile data for abstract generation may include for example biographical information contact information technical expertise data ownership or creatorship associations e.g. with other human entities and or with data assets roles interests activities social information e.g. social media presence and so on. In some embodiments the human profile data may be existing profiles of the human entities e.g. social media profiles corporate profiles from internal directories such as LDAP AD such that the data discovery platform provides abstracts of the human entities based on information in the existing profiles. Similar to the data connectors the people connectors may be configured to operate on the human profile data to perform any suitable data related functionality e.g. indexing tagging metering alerting etc. . Abstracts generated based on human profile data may be operated on similar to abstracts generated based on other types of data assets as described in further detail elsewhere herein.

In some embodiments the initial data abstractions provided by the indexing engines e.g. generated by data connectors and or people connectors may be in a form specific to the type of indexing engine connector and or data source and may not necessarily be adapted for generating abstracts such as visually representable abstracts. Accordingly the data discovery platform may implement a publisher or converter downstream of the indexing engines to translate the initial data abstractions into a form suitable for abstract generation. For example the publisher may convert the ancillary data provided by the indexing engines to a suitable format structure or standard usable by the data discovery platform for abstract creation. The publisher may perform additional abstractions on the ancillary data using analysis and or processing steps similar to those employed by the indexing engines in order to further refine the abstraction to improve the quality of the resultant abstract.

The publisher and the indexing engines may interact in any suitable manner to facilitate abstract generation. In some embodiments at least some of the indexing engines may generate a plurality of ancillary data sets and select only a subset of these ancillary data sets to be pushed onwards for abstract generation e.g. a data push model . Consequently the indexing engines may play a larger role in determining the ultimate content of the abstract. Alternatively or in addition the publisher may accept a plurality of ancillary data sets from the indexing engines and select only a subset of these ancillary data sets to be converted and used for abstract generation e.g. a data pull model . In such embodiments the publisher may be primarily responsible for the content of the resultant abstract. The modality to be used for abstract generation may be determined by the user data provider abstract creator system administrator or other related entity and may also be determined based on the specific connector and or convertor applications implemented in the data discovery platform as well as the specific source data used for the creating the abstract.

The converted data sets produced by the publisher may be provided to an abstract creation system or server configured to create visually representable abstracts based on the converted data sets. The abstract creation system may be implemented e.g. as a server across any suitable combination of private hardware or public and or private distributed computing resources in order to generate abstracts e.g. as HTML objects or the like based on the data obtained from the publisher . The abstraction creation system may be associated with storage subsystems for the generated abstracts and thereby also act as a central abstract repository. In some instances such storage subsystems may also be used for storage of data assets utilized for abstract generation as elected by the data provider or a system administrator.

Additionally the abstract creation system may also support other functionalities related to the abstracts such as tagging aggregation content search and the like. As another example the abstract creation system may also interface with other applications e.g. analytics tools to enable additional analyses to be performed on the generated abstracts. In yet another example the abstract creation system may in conjunction with the indexing engines support searching of the heterogeneous data sources. For instance the abstract creation system may forward such search requests to one or more indexing engines having search functionality e.g. using search indices generated during data abstraction as described herein and return the search results provided by the indexing engines to the user. Additional details on exemplary implementations of abstract searching are provided elsewhere herein.

The data discovery platform may include one or more user applications enabling user interaction. For example depicts exemplary user applications including a local application e.g. a local app installed on a client machine such as a utility added to the operating system and a web application web app e.g. a web app accessible from any user device . However it shall be understood that the user application s of the data discovery platforms described herein may be of any type and may be implemented across any suitable combination of environments and or computing resources. In some embodiments for instance the user application s may be entirely web based. Conversely the user application s may be deployed entirely on local user machines. Furthermore any functionalities described herein in the context of the local application or the web application may be performed by any suitable implementation of the user application s .

For example in addition to the batch abstract creation from heterogeneous data sources described herein the data discovery platform may also accommodate user initiated abstract creation in a manner similar to the implementations described herein in relation to at least . Such user initiated abstract creation may be accomplished via any suitable user application such as a local application interacting with the abstract creation system . The local application may for instance provide a user interface enabling users to transfer and or load user data assets to the abstract creation system or provide data identifiers e.g. file location enabling the abstract creation system to connect to the data assets. The local application may include a third party application pushing user data assets to the abstract creation system as previously described herein.

The visually representable abstracts generated by the abstract creation system may be displayed to a user via any suitable user application such as through a web application accessible from any suitable user device. The web application may further be employed as an interface through which users may perform additional actions mediated by the abstract creation system . For example the web application may enable users to modify the generated abstracts such as by adding tags editing the content configuring the appearance and so on and these modifications may or may not be propagated back to the underlying source data. In such instances the abstracts may include a version or provenance tracking function to for example show and or track changes to the data and the abstract itself over time as well as provide historical versions of the abstract and in some cases historical versions of the represented data . Additionally the web application may also enable users to share abstracts e.g. via social media email links search the abstract repository organize the abstracts e.g. into collections folders etc. track abstracts e.g. usage statistics modifications of the abstracts and or the source data and create transmit and or receive alerts relating to abstracts or the underlying data assets e.g. event based alerting as described in further detail elsewhere herein . In another example the web application may support functionalities relating to user groups e.g. based on interests expertise associations data ownership etc. including facilities for users to form search communicate with join and or leave such groups. In some embodiments the web application may mediate user interaction with other users such as by tracking the activity of other users e.g. activities relevant to a specified abstract enabling discovery of potentially relevant users e.g. based on activity data and or abstract ownership or creatorship tags shared membership in groups or associations etc. or connecting to other users e.g. via functionalities embedded in a suitable user application or other communication methodologies such as email or social media .

The topology described herein may be implemented in any suitable manner. Connections and or interactions between different components of the topology may for example be mediated by suitable APIs e.g. between the indexing engines and publisher between the publisher and the abstract creation system etc. . In some embodiments certain components may be implemented as APIs rather than discrete applications. As previously mentioned any number of components may be combined with each other in order to integrate their individual functionalities. For example the publisher may be integrated into the indexing engines and or the abstract creation system the data connector may be combined with the people connector and some functionalities of the local application may be combined with the web application or vice versa. Various components may be implemented on virtual and or machine instances and across private or public distributed computing resources hardware appliances or suitable combinations thereof.

In some embodiments a package may be provided that integrates some or all of the concepts disclosed herein. For example a package may include and or integrate e.g. into an existing network of an enterprise various aspects and or components of embodiments of the data discovery platform described herein a publisher e.g. an API or other input output facility that allows users of an enterprise to provide data to the integrated data discovery platform to generate abstracts and implementation of the generated abstracts e.g. exposure of the data by way of the abstracts to users within and or outside of the enterprise such as via search capabilities dynamic displays of the abstracts and other capabilities of the visually representable abstracts described herein . Such a package is contemplated as being modular and its functionalities level of integration etc. may be customizable based on the context and or constraints of the enterprise such as its network topology ontology level of functionality purchased or any other such requirements as defined by the implementer of the package or the requesting enterprise.

The visually representable abstracts generated by the data discovery platforms described herein may be interactive dynamic and or context sensitive and may visually represent any type and number of source data assets. In embodiments where a plurality of data assets are represented a plurality of associated abstracts may be presented in a common medium independent of the potentially disparate source infrastructure location context etc. associated with the underlying data. The visually representable abstracts may be displayed on any suitable device having a display interface including monitors screens mobile devices e.g. smartphones tablets personal digital assistants PDAs laptops computers televisions and the like and such devices may be configured to accept user inputs for navigating and interacting with the abstracts e.g. clicks taps touches swipes button presses keyboard input voice commands gestures etc. . The abstracts may be visually represented in any fashion appropriate for the context in which they appear e.g. horizontally oriented rather than vertically oriented etc. . In some embodiments the abstracts may be optimized for presentation on the specific device on which they are displayed e.g. with respect to size resolution orientation image quality frame rate method of user input etc. .

In some embodiments the visually representable abstracts may have a plurality of configurable faces or different contexts visually represented for the underlying data each with a specific purpose that serves the broader goal of abstraction. Examples of such faces include visual previews of the data itself e.g. thumbnails textual summaries describing the data asset visual representations of associations and or relationships between data assets e.g. contextual and or geographic maps or hierarchical information charts graphs or other graphically embodied statistics analytics and or metrics related to the data or summarizing the content of the data information regarding the creator of the data or the abstract statistics relating to usage of the abstract such as total number of views digital object identifier DOI based metrics such as overall market penetration or visibility of an abstract and or the underlying data interoperability compatibility information regarding the data e.g. which software applications are capable of working with the underlying data file branding information e.g. that of the creator of the data or abstract or any other arbitrarily defined context e.g. metadata type . Faces may include static elements as well as interactive dynamic and or context sensitive elements. For example faces may include live elements of dynamic data assets e.g. live data streams and such live elements may be updated in real time at specified intervals and or in response to changes to the underlying data assets. In some embodiments faces may be customizable e.g. with regards to content context organization design etc. by users data providers data creators third party applications information technology IT administrators system administrators or any other suitable entities.

The contexts represented by each face type may be based on ancillary data e.g. metadata associated with or derived from the source data in any form or by any manner as previously described herein. For example a face may partly be generated based on ancillary data that is automatically created by a data discovery platform generating the abstract e.g. when processing the ingested data . As another example a face may partly be generated based on ancillary data that is provided by and possibly defined by an owner of the data and separately from the data itself. As yet another example a face may be generated based at least in part on ancillary data provided by any intermediary entities interfacing between the source data and the data discovery platform e.g. the indexing engines or components thereof such as data connectors or people connectors . In any of these examples the ancillary data may include any information associated with the data itself as well as information associated with the data provider e.g. physical or electronic contact information for the data provider basic information about the data or abstract such as file size file type data source identification data type standards compliance and the like analytics related to the data or abstract such as a price for the data or access thereto information regarding the completeness veracity trustworthiness freshness or trackability of the data the data s fitness and or compatibility for one or more applications or uses or other metrics visual representations of the data such as thumbnail images vector graphics conceptual images videos animations and the like data provenance information relationship information such as the data s relative position within one or more ontological hierarchies and any other metadata as would be applicable to the data being surveyed.

In some embodiments the visually representable abstracts may be presented to a user as a set of multiple faces such that the entire set presents a comprehensive abstraction of the underlying source data over a plurality of different contexts. Notably the faces within a set may represent diverse data assets such that data derived from heterogeneous data sources and of different types formats contexts etc. may all be represented in a single set. The faces may be presented in any sequence best suited for conveying the key concepts encompassed by the abstract. The selection of faces to be used to represent a set of data assets may be customized based on the content and contexts of the data as well as the preferences of the data provider data creator abstract creator or other related entities. The subset of faces displayed can be varied by a sufficiently authorized user such as a data provider e.g. the owner of the data in question and may be sensitive to the identity and authorization level of the viewer of the abstract such that different users viewing the same abstract may be presented with different sets of faces.

In addition to serving as a presentation layer for source data the abstracts described herein may also be actionable to support various functionalities related to data and information management. For example the abstracts generated by the data discovery platform may be used to mediate interactions between one or more users e.g. clients employees of an enterprise and the data sources. The abstracts may include links or other access points to the associated source data and the data discovery platform may enable such abstracts to be used as a medium through which access to the associated data may be controlled e.g. by controlling user access roles and permissions to the abstract itself . The data discovery platform may provide context for how the source data can be operated on by various platforms e.g. third party applications processing platforms and may provide links or other access methods to such platforms. In some embodiments the data discovery platform may enable representative sharing of the underlying data with unaffiliated users e.g. unaffiliated with the source data and or data provider through the abstracts such as via the sharing or exchanging of the abstracts which may occur via suitable channels such as via web link email texts social media and the like. Such unaffiliated users may have limited access to the data or details within the shared access as may be determined and or customized by the abstract data creator IT administrator and or system administrator.

As another example the data discovery platform may enable abstracts to be used as an arbiter of communication with the data provider creator owner expert or any other entity or contact associated with a given abstract. Such communication may be initiated to for example request access to the source data ask the contact creator questions about other data holdings and or abstracts or discuss potential data related products and services. Accordingly abstracts may provide contact information for such associated entities include facilities for communicating with the entities or be integrated with preexisting communication modalities implemented by other applications e.g. emails texts social media etc. .

In some embodiments the data discovery platform may employ data metering in order to monitor overall system usage such as by users e.g. employees clients extrinsic users data providers e.g. enterprises data creators system administrators and the like. As used herein the term data metering may also refer to API metering application usage metering and the like. In some embodiments such data metering may be used for billing purposes in order to determine the overall value of the data discovery platform to a customer e.g. user data provider data creator system administrator etc. . Alternatively or in combination data metering may be useful to data providers or system administrators in order to provide an assessment of the usage of the data holdings and generated abstracts. Data metering techniques may involve the insertion of monitoring points or nodes at any suitable location within the system topologies described herein such as at the data sources indexing engines data discovery platforms storage systems third party applications or the connections between any of the above e.g. APIs and API endpoints between these components . The data metering may involve collecting suitable metrics related to the data assets exposed to and or passing through the monitoring points. Such metrics may be based on the amount of connected data e.g. size and or number of data assets the amount of abstracts created from the data e.g. size and or number of abstracts created the amount of data abstracted by the indexing engines and or data discovery platform in the process of abstract generation the number of abstracts retrieved from the data discovery platform e.g. in the process of abstract search tagging dissemination tracking etc. the number of searches performed on existing abstracts the number of notifications or alerts set by a user and the like. For example an indexing engine e.g. the data connector may include a monitoring node such that statistics related to the data processed by the indexing engine during abstract generation are provided to the data discovery platform for data metering. As another example a monitoring node may be incorporated in an API connecting an third party application to the data discovery platform thus enabling metering based on the amount of abstracts generated from data pushed to the platform via the third party application.

In some embodiments the abstracts may support tags and tagging related functionalities. For example the abstracts may have one or more textual tags associated therewith. Tags may be specific to a given knowledge domain workspace enterprise domain and the like. Tags and other domain specific information indexed by abstracts may be used to enable topic specific searching by a searching entity. Tags and collections taxonomies or libraries thereof may be generated and associated with specific technical sub domains and visualized in the context of the abstracts and search results so as to enable users to infer an abstract s source data as well as quickly locate and discover data relevant to the search. Tags may be generated in a variety of manners. For example tags may be generated by users e.g. data creators searching entities etc. either individually or in batches. In some embodiments the creation of user generated tags may be aided by providing references and auto completion facilities to the tag creator e.g. by dynamically displaying relevant tags within the existing library of available tags. In other examples the tags may be generated by an indexing engine or components thereof e.g. the data connector or the people connector or other intermediary entity e.g. the publisher during the process of data abstraction based on their own internal tagging algorithms. As yet another example an implementing data discovery platform may automatically apply tags to given abstracts using inference algorithms as it determines are applicable. The system inferred tagging mechanism may include a machine learning facility that enables the mechanism to improve over time for individual users as well as domains since the creation use patterns and modifications thereof create metadata regarding the inferred meaning of tags and their associations. Such a mechanism may be used to dynamically and or automatically expand or suggest expansion to domain specific libraries. As yet another example extrinsic users may programmatically provide pre existing or predetermined tags or a library of such tags as well as programmatically request and pull the tags currently extant on the implementing system. It is contemplated that tags may be generated in any appropriate fashion such as by the use of noun extraction techniques e.g. upon metadata data extrapolation sentiment analysis or other predictive techniques or the use of a predetermined taxonomy or in the case of implementation within a known enterprise a preexisting taxonomy the use of which may be aided by a thesaurus or similar reference that may be for example specific to the domain or taxonomy.

In some embodiments tagging may be implemented as a way to organize abstracts. For example one or more tags may be used to define a collection of abstracts such that any abstract labeled with some or all of these tags are considered to be a member of the collection. Accordingly an abstract may be automatically added to the collection by tagging with the appropriate tag s . Conversely an abstract may be automatically removed from the collection by removing the corresponding tag s . Such tag based collections may be implemented in conjunction with suitable functionalities e.g. tag based searching and or filtering in order to facilitate data discovery and navigation.

Furthermore the data discovery platform may also enable a collection of representative abstracts to be used as a searchable index of the underlying data as well as of the abstracts . The abstracts and or the underlying data may be searchable based on abstract content tags context groups associations or any other relevant parameters. For example the search functionalities may be integrated with the abstract tagging system described herein such that the tags are indexed for search by the data discovery platform during the tag generation process thereby enabling the collection of abstracts to be searched using on their associated tags. These and any other search capabilities may be implemented through an end user application e.g. a local or web application the data discovery platform an indexing engine interfacing between the data sources and the data discovery platform e.g. through the data connectors or the people connectors using their own previously generated search indices as described elsewhere herein or suitable combinations thereof.

Furthermore the search results may be presented in any suitable format or context based on user preference. For example when a search is executed against a collection of representative abstracts the search results may be displayed as previews or visual representations of the relevant representative abstracts returned. The search results may include titles tags thumbnail images and other metadata or relevant data values used to generate the abstracts. In other embodiments the search result is represented in multiple visualized modalities and in some of such embodiments the modalities visualized may change dynamically based on the nature of the search the user requesting the search the context of the search display etc. . For example such modalities may include geographic maps timelines conceptual maps and tag clouds generated from and or associated with metadata in the abstracts responsive to the search request. The modalities shown are modular and may be customized by an administrator of the search system the data and or abstract creator the user entity performing the search and other entities. Such modalities may maintain a dynamic relationship with a conventional search result view e.g. a conventional list sorted hierarchically by relevance. 

The searchable index itself may include a machine learning facility. Such a machine learning facility may be implemented in order to improve the relevance and quality of search results such as based on previously executed user searches action behaviors existing tag associations and other search relevant parameters. For example the searchable index may cross reference users data providers abstract creators or other entities associated with popular tags. As another example the searchable index may use DOI registration tracking of a given subset of abstracts to improve the quality relevance and discovery of those abstracts when returned as search results. As a specific example DOI relationships may be used to introduce other data sources users and web pages e.g. on the Internet into search results against abstracts when the system determines such extrinsic sources would be relevant to the search conducted.

In some examples the data discovery platform may be employed to monitor data assets and may generate representative abstracts as a methodology for communicating to an appropriate entity e.g. data provider data creator data owner user etc. that an event e.g. a data associated event or a user associated event has occurred. The monitored data assets may include any data assets that are exposed in any way to the data discovery platform such as data assets provided and or generated at any point in the abstract creation process. As an example with respect to the embodiments of the monitored data may include the heterogeneous data sources the human data sources ancillary data derived from the data sources by the data connectors human profile data generated by the people connectors converted data produced by the publisher abstracts generated by the abstract creation system user data provided through a local user application or suitable combinations thereof. The monitoring functions may be performed by any components and or entities of or related to the data discovery platform e.g. the indexing engines publisher abstract creation system local user application web application the data provider or the users. In some embodiments a component or entity may monitor data during the process of acting upon the data e.g. receiving transmitting processing analyzing displaying etc. . Alternatively or in addition the component may monitor all data exposed to the component at any point in time and in any manner e.g. all data located in associated data stores and data sources . Such monitoring activities may occur without requiring external intervention from another entity such as in the case of automatic monitoring activities performed at predetermined time intervals e.g. periodic automated polling of source data . Conversely a user data provider or system administrator etc. may actively initiate data monitoring e.g. by specifying when such monitoring activities should occur instructing the data discovery platform to perform a check on currently held data assets .

An event may be any occurrence associated with any subset of the monitored data described above. Such events may include occurrences related to user activity such as user requests to access or obtain more information regarding the monitored data or generate abstracts based on the monitored data data provider activity such as addition removal or modification of data sources or data assets system administrator activity such as changes in data permissions and accessibility or activities performed by any other relevant entity. As another example a user or data provider indexing engine third party application or any other suitable entity may specify one or more predetermined data associated criteria e.g. set an alert and the fulfillment of the predetermined criteria may constitute an event e.g. triggering the alert . In some embodiments one or more predetermined criteria may be determined by a machine learning facility such as the embodiments described herein in the context of abstract tagging and search. The predetermined criteria may pertain to any aspect of the monitored data such as a state of the monitored data. The state may be a state of the content of the data or a state of the data itself. For example a predetermined criterion may include detecting whether the monitored data has been modified accessed cited shared tagged or searched determining whether certain data values appear in the monitored data at a specified location frequency rate etc. e.g. certain keywords appearing at a higher than expected frequency a certain subject trending on a news feed or in social media determining whether the content of the monitored data indicates that a certain outcome has occurred e.g. data values indicative of a desired result being achieved data values indicative of a malfunction or other abnormal state detecting whether an association of the monitored data has changed e.g. a user forming joining or leaving an organization data assets being moved from one database to another or any other relevant occurrences as well as suitable combinations thereof.

As mentioned above the predetermined criteria may be specified by a user data provider data creator data owner system administrator or any other entity associated with the monitored data. In some embodiments a notification e.g. an alert may be provided by the data discovery platform to one or more of the above entities in response to an occurrence of the event. Alternatively or in combination the notified entity may be the same as the specifying entity or a different entity than the specifying entity e.g. an employer may set an alert that when triggered notifies an employee . The notification may be transmitted to the user in any suitable manner e.g. based on previously indicated preferences of the user such as via email texts social media news feeds e.g. a feed detailing abstract related activity as described below and the like.

In some embodiments the data discovery platform may generate an abstract representative of the event the details of a such a process being provided elsewhere herein and the abstract may be included in e.g. embedded within linked from or otherwise accessible from the notification. The event abstract may include information enabling the user to achieve a sufficiently comprehensive understanding of the event by reviewing the abstract such as information regarding time and or location of the event data sources data assets or human entities associated with the event a textual description summarizing the event images videos or other graphics of the event metrics statistics or analytics representative of the event or any other relevant information.

In some embodiments the data discovery platform may infer via preexisting relationship information determined for the monitored data during the abstract generation process other data sources or assets associated with the monitored data that may also be relevant to the event and include access modalities e.g. links to the other data sources or assets or abstracts representative thereof in the event abstract thereby facilitating user access to these potentially relevant resources. For example in response to an event indicating a malfunction in a sensor platform the data discovery platform may generate an abstract providing not only sensor data indicative of the malfunction but also providing links to instruction manuals directory information for a technical expert or the sensor platform owner and other such assets or abstracts representative of these assets.

In some embodiments the UI may also include a navigation icon which may be implemented as a visually distinctive graphical element such as a logo or other branding element. Selection of the navigation icon by a user e.g. through tapping clicking or other suitable forms of user input may enable the user to access data discovery functionalities e.g. navigation search and or filtering functionalities for the collection of existing abstracts. For example the navigation icon may be a link or other access modality to the search request UI of such that the user may quickly deploy the search request UI by selecting the navigation icon .

Data which may be of any form or type may be received from a data provider . The data provider may be similar to the exemplary data providers described in relation to at least and may include for example a third party application associated with a suitable API for interfacing with a data discovery platform. The data may be processed to generate a set of primary metadata or any other ancillary data sets derived from the data and such primary metadata may be associated with contexts that relate to the content of the data. The processing may be performed by a data discovery platform such as the systems or of in a manner disclosed elsewhere herein. A set of secondary metadata or any other type of ancillary data may be received from the data provider . Based on the primary and secondary metadata an abstract can be generated e.g. by the data discovery platform in a fashion previously described. The abstract may include at least some of the primary and secondary metadata as well as the contexts of the primary metadata e.g. displayed as faces of a visually representable abstract having the contexts . Optionally following the generation of the abstract a determination may be made as to whether the underlying data has been modified by the data discovery platform. In an additional optional step the generated abstract can be updated as necessary to include information related to or reflective of the modification .

The various techniques described herein may be partially or fully implemented using code that is storable upon storage media and computer readable media and executable by one or more processors of a computer system. Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices solid state drives SSD or other solid state storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present disclosure. Thus while the disclosed techniques are susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the disclosed embodiments especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

While preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions will now occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention. It is intended that the following claims define the scope of the invention and that methods and structures within the scope of these claims and their equivalents be covered thereby.

