---

title: Adaptive silencing mechanism for device-to-device (D2D) discovery
abstract: Novel adaptive silencing schemes for device-to-device (D2D) discovery based on loading conditions in a discovery zone are disclosed herein. These adaptive silencing schemes can be used to mitigate interference and data collisions in networks where D2D connections can be formed. In some embodiments, a silencing factor is used to probabilistically determine whether a user equipment (UE) will transmit one or more D2D discovery signals in the discovery zone. Loading conditions in a current discovery zone can be estimated using several different approaches and metrics described herein. The silencing factor can be increased or decreased for a subsequent discovery zone based on the values of one or more of the metrics described herein for the current discovery zone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09609502&OS=09609502&RS=09609502
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09609502
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141224
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 943 974 filed Feb. 24 2014 the entire specification of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Proximity based applications and services represent a fast growing social and technological trend that may have a major impact on evolution of cellular wireless mobile broadband technologies. These services are based on the awareness of two devices or two users being close to each other and may include such applications as public safety operations social networking mobile commerce advertisement gaming etc. Device to device D2D discovery is the first step to enable D2D service. With direct D2D communication user equipment UE may communicate directly with each other without involvement of a base station or an enhanced node B eNB . One issue with D2D communication is device discovery to enable D2D service. Device discovery involves discovering one or more other discoverable UEs within communication range for D2D communication. Device discovery also involves being discovered by one or more other discovering UEs within communication range for D2D communication. There are many unresolved issues with respect to device discovery for D2D communication including resource allocation and signaling particularly for Proximity Service ProSe D2D discovery.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope is thereby intended.

Before the some embodiments are disclosed and described it is to be understood that the claimed subject matter is not limited to the particular structures process operations or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter

Embodiments disclosed herein provide signaling designs for the support of LTE Proximity Services ProSe D2D discovery. In these embodiments UEs may be ProSe enabled UEs configured for D2D discovery signal transmission and D2D communication. Some embodiments provide configuration of D2D discovery zones i.e. discovery resource pools with partitioning of D2D Discovery Zones into contention based and non contention based Discovery Zones for both network common and cell specific configurations of discovery zones. Some embodiments provide mechanisms for UE feedback to provide an eNB with information about the loading of discovery zones. Some embodiments provide options for support of inter cell eNB discovery. Some embodiments provide for the use and configuration of silencing factors for random silencing adaptive random silencing for transmission of D2D discovery packets. Some embodiments provide for signaling contents that include the discovery zone configuration a silencing factor a transmit power control configuration hopping related parameters and a scrambling identity for scrambling of cyclic redundancy check CRC mask of discovery packets. Some embodiments provide signaling mechanisms for the above mentioned signaling contents. Some embodiments provide for static provisioning and or pre configuration of D2D discovery resources. Some embodiments provide for network and UE behavior to support contention free direct device discovery. These embodiments are discussed in more detail below.

The core network includes mobility management entity MME serving gateway serving GW and packet data network gateway PDN GW . The RAN includes enhanced node B s eNBs which may operate as base stations for communicating with user equipment UE . The eNBs may include macro eNBs and low power LP eNBs. UEs may be ProSe enabled.

The MME is similar in function to the control plane of legacy Serving GPRS Support Nodes SGSN . The MME manages mobility aspects in access such as gateway selection and tracking area list management. The serving GW terminates the interface toward the RAN and routes data packets between the RAN and the core network . In addition it may be a local mobility anchor point for inter eNB handovers and also may provide an anchor for inter 3GPP mobility. Other responsibilities may include lawful intercept charging and some policy enforcement. The serving GW and the MME may be implemented in one physical node or separate physical nodes. The PDN GW terminates an SGi interface toward the packet data network PDN . The PDN GW routes data packets between the EPC and the external PDN and may be a key node for policy enforcement and charging data collection. It may also provide an anchor point for mobility with non LTE accesses. The external PDN may be any kind of IP network as well as an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS domain. The PDN GW and the serving GW may be implemented in one physical node or separated physical nodes.

The eNBs macro and micro terminate the air interface protocol and may be the first point of contact for a UE . In some embodiments an eNB may fulfill various logical functions for the RAN including but not limited to RNC radio network controller functions such as radio bearer management uplink and downlink dynamic radio resource management and data packet scheduling and mobility management.

The S1 interface is the interface that separates the RAN and the EPC . It is split into two parts the S1 U which carries traffic data between the eNBs and the serving GW and the S1 MME which is a signaling interface between the eNBs and the MME . The X2 interface is the interface between eNBs . The X2 interface comprises two parts the X2 C and X2 U. The X2 C is the control plane interface between the eNBs while the X2 U is the user plane interface between the eNBs .

With cellular networks LP cells are typically used to extend coverage to indoor areas where outdoor signals do not reach well or to add network capacity in areas with very dense phone usage such as train stations. As used herein the term low power LP eNB refers to any suitable relatively low power eNB for implementing a narrower cell narrower than a macro cell such as a femtocell a picocell or a micro cell. Femtocell eNBs are typically provided by a mobile network operator to its residential or enterprise customers. A femtocell is typically the size of a residential gateway or smaller and generally connects to the user s broadband line. Once plugged in the femtocell connects to the mobile operator s mobile network and provides extra coverage in a range of typically 30 to 50 meters for residential femtocells. Thus a LP eNB might be a femtocell eNB since it is coupled through the PDN GW . Similarly a picocell is a wireless communication system typically covering a small area such as in building offices shopping malls train stations etc. or more recently in aircraft. A picocell eNB can generally connect through the X2 link to another eNB such as a macro eNB through its base station controller BSC functionality. Thus LP eNB may be implemented with a picocell eNB since it is coupled to a macro eNB via an X2 interface. Picocell eNBs or other LP eNBs may incorporate some or all functionality of a macro eNB. In some cases this may be referred to as an access point base station or enterprise femtocell.

In some LTE embodiments a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH carries user data and higher layer signaling to a UE . The physical downlink control channel PDCCH carries information about the transport format and resource allocations related to the PDSCH channel among other things. It also informs the UE about the transport format resource allocation and H ARQ information related to the uplink shared channel. Typically downlink scheduling assigning control and shared channel resource blocks to UEs within a cell is performed at the eNB based on channel quality information fed back from the UEs to the eNB and then the downlink resource assignment information is sent to a UE on a physical downlink control channel PDCCH used for and possibly assigned to the UE .

The PDCCH uses CCEs control channel elements to convey the control information. Before being mapped to resource elements the PDCCH complex valued symbols may be first organized into quadruplets which are then permuted using a sub block inter leaver for rate matching. Each PDCCH is transmitted using one or more of these control channel elements CCEs where each CCE corresponds to nine sets of four physical resource elements known as resource element groups REGs . Four QPSK symbols are mapped to each REG. The PDCCH may be transmitted using one or more CCEs depending on the size of DCI and the channel condition. There may be four or more different PDCCH formats defined in LTE with different numbers of CCEs e.g. aggregation level L 1 2 4 or 8 .

In accordance with some embodiments the UEs that are ProSe enabled may be arranged for device to device D2D communications including D2D discovery of other UEs for direct D2D communication. In these embodiments ProSe enabled UEs may transmit discovery signals within discovery resources to discover one or more other ProSe enabled UEs. These embodiments are discussed in more detail below.

In accordance with some embodiments a UE may receive signaling from an eNB indicating a discovery zone within the LTE operation zone . The discovery zone may comprise a plurality of PRBs of a discovery resource. The UE may transmit a discovery signal or discovery packet for receipt by one or more other UEs for D2D discovery within some PRBs of the discovery zone . In some embodiments the resources allocated for D2D discovery may be resources of a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH although the scope of the embodiments is not limited in this respect.

A PRB may be associated with a particular slot of a subframe in the time dimension and a particular group of frequency subcarriers in the frequency dimension. Each PRB for example may be identified by a RB index and a subframe index. In some embodiments a discovery packet may be transmitted within M subframes of N resources blocks where M and N are at least one and may be greater than one. These embodiments are described in more detail below.

In some embodiments a PRB may comprise twelve sub carriers in the frequency domain by 0.5 ms i.e. one slot in the time domain. The PRBs may be allocated in pairs in the time domain although this is not a requirement. In some embodiments a PRB may comprise a plurality of REs. A RE may comprise one sub carrier by one symbol. When a normal CP is used a RB contains seven symbols. When an extended CP is used the RB contains six symbols. A delay spread that exceeds the normal CP length indicates the use of extended CP. Each subframe may be one millisecond ms and one frame may comprise ten such subframes.

There are two different approaches in D2D discovery restricted closed D2D discovery and open D2D discovery. Restricted closed D2D discovery applies to use cases wherein a discoverable device may be discovered only by a select set of ProSe enabled discovering devices. A further implication of closed device discovery is consideration of scenarios wherein a discovering device tries to discover particular ProSe enabled device s one or many from a set of ProSe enabled devices . Thus for this use case a discovering device would be assumed to know the ProSe enabled device it wishes to discover in its proximity.

Contrary to closed D2D discovery open device discovery considers use cases wherein a discoverable device may want itself to be discovered by other ProSe enabled devices in its proximity. From the perspective of the discovering device open device discovery implies that a discovering device may not be assumed to be aware of the identity of other ProSe enabled devices prior to discovery. Consequently the device discovery mechanism for open discovery should aim towards discovering as many ProSe enabled devices in its proximity as possible.

For open D2D discovery an eNB has limited control on the discovery process among UEs . In particular an eNB may periodically allocate certain discovery resources in the form of D2D discovery regions for a UE to transmit the discovery information. The discovery information may be in the form of discovery sequence or discovery packet with payload information. The discovery related information content that UEs intend to share with each other may be higher as the design would need to transmit the unique ID for device identification service identity etc. e.g. 48 bits or more as data payload protected by CRC. The number of resource blocks RB required for discovery packet transmission in open D2D discovery design which is denoted as L may be 1 or more depending on the payload size and the overall discovery performance requirement.

In some embodiments a discovery region may comprise a number of occurrences of periodic discovery zones with each discovery zone comprising of some RBs in frequency domain and several subframes in time domain. shows an example of a discovery zone within LTE operation zone in which N n Nand nare denoted as the number of allocated RBs the starting RB index and the number of subframes the starting subframe index of each discovery zone respectively. The information regarding the partitioning of these D2D discovery regions may be semi statically signaled by the eNB using RRC signaling or by System Information Blocks SIBS for within network coverage scenarios. For the partial network coverage scenario such information may be forwarded by the coordinator UE to the UEs that are outside network coverage. For out of network coverage scenario the discovery zone may be predefined or broadcasted by the centralized D2D device.

In some embodiments the Nand nparameters are not included in the D2D zone configuration message and instead the full system bandwidth except the PUCCH region at band edges may be designed to be exclusively reserved for D2D discovery from system perspective although the scope of the embodiments is not limited in this respect. In some embodiments the parameter nmay be configured as a periodicity for D2D discovery zone allocation.

Even for the case of UE based open discovery it would be beneficial to exploit potential network assistance in UE specific discovery resource allocation for transmission of discovery signals for the UEs in RRC CONNECTED mode and thereby improve the efficiency of the discovery process. In this regard each D2D Discovery Region D2D DZ or discovery resource pool may be further divided into two orthogonal time frequency zones 1 Non contention based D2D DZ NCB D2D DZ for which the eNB allocates periodic resources for transmission of discovery signals and this region is accessible to D2D UEs in RRC CONNECTED mode 2 Contention based D2D DZ CB D2D DZ also known as a type I discovery resource pool or a discovery resource pool for UE autonomous resource selection This region is in general available to all D2D UEs including out of coverage UEs wherein D2D enabled UEs follow a purely contention based transmission of discovery signals. Moreover the D2D discovery resources used for CB D2D DZ might be further divided into two parts called Part A and Part B to enable D2D discovery and to roughly indicate the required size of D2D communication resources e.g. the number of subframes for D2D communication depending of the amount of D2D data buffered at UE side especially due to the fact that D2D discovery procedure may be followed by a D2D communication operation. The use of a D2D discovery resource from one group indicates preference for the larger amount of resources then one predefined threshold.

In accordance with some embodiments a D2D discovery zone may be configured in two distinct ways network common D2D discovery zone and cell specific D2D discovery zone the details of which are described below. For network common discovery zones a common set of time frequency resources may be reserved for D2D discovery across the entire network. The configuration could be different between different Public Land Mobile Networks PLMNs to enable the respective operators a certain degree of flexibility in resource provisioning. The discovery zone may be provisioned by each PLMN via the Operations Administration and Maintenance OAM tools. Network common configuration of discovery zones may be signaled via multiple ways. The exact resource provisioning may be determined based on the statistics of the number of ProSe enabled UEs in the network their respective capabilities and location up to the tracking area TA granularity . This information is available at the D2D server and the D2D server can inform the eNBs of the exact resource configuration via the Mobility Management Entity MME .

For cell specific discovery zones each eNB may determine the exact resource configuration for the cell specific discovery zones or discovery resource pools using information on the current number of active ProSe enabled UEs and the interference situation. Some of this information may be obtained via periodic event triggered on demand feedback from the ProSe enabled UEs participating in the discovery process. To enable inter eNB D2D discovery a certain level of coordination between neighboring eNBs exists and may be achieved via exchange of information on the configuration of discovery zones between neighboring eNBs over an X2 interface.

In accordance with embodiments an eNB may transmit signaling to indicate D2D discovery zone configuration to ProSe enabled UEs . The signaling may indicate time and frequency resources and a periodicity of the discovery zone and may indicate operational parameters for the discovery zone . The resources of the D2D discovery zone may be allocated for D2D discovery signal transmission by the ProSe enabled UEs .

In some embodiments the D2D discovery zone configuration signaling may indicate one or more occurrences of the discovery zone and is sent by the eNB either semi statically using radio resource control RRC signaling or sent using SIBs. In the example illustrated in the discovery zone comprises a plurality of PRBs within an LTE operation zone and the discovery zone may occur periodically or regularly.

In some embodiments the signaling is sent by the eNB either using dedicated RRC signaling or sent using common radio resource control RRC signaling via SIBs i.e. SIB signaling . When the signaling sent by the eNB uses common RRC signaling via SIBs the signaling sent by the eNB may include at least one of a SIB transmission and a paging transmission. In some embodiments the configuration information may either added to an existing SIB e.g. in accordance with LTE Release 11 or is signaled via a newly defined SIB e.g. in accordance with al later LTE release .

For signaling in the case of both network common and cell specific discovery zone allocation the network should be able to signal this information to UEs in both RRC CONNECTED and RRC IDLE modes of operation. For network common D2D discovery zone allocation different signaling mechanisms may be applied. In some embodiments existing system information block SIBs e.g. SIB2 may be used to signal the D2D discovery zone configuration information including a silencing factor and other related cell or network common parameters discussed in more detail below.

In some embodiments the discovery zone may be referred to or considered a discovery period. In some embodiments contention based D2D discovery may be referred or considered Type 1 discovery while non contention based D2D discovery may be referred to or considered Type 2 discovery.

In some embodiments the D2D discovery zone configuration signaling indicates at least one of a non contention based D2D discovery zone NCB D2D DZ for which periodic resources are allocated for non contention based transmission of discovery signals by only ProSe enabled UEs in RRC connected mode and a contention based D2D discovery zone CB D2D DZ for which periodic resources are allocated for contention based transmission of discovery signals by any ProSe enabled UEs including ProSe enabled UEs in RRC connected mode RRC idle mode and out of coverage UEs. In these embodiments the non contention based D2D discovery zone may be designated for transmission of discovery signals in accordance with a non contention based technique by ProSe enabled UEs in RRC connected mode. In some embodiments ProSe enabled UEs in RRC connected mode may be assigned specific discovery resources of the non contention based D2D discovery zone for their transmission of discover signals . In some embodiments the D2D discovery zone configuration signaling may indicate that the discovery zone is partitioned into a non contention based D2D discovery zone and a contention based D2D discovery zone.

In some of these embodiments the contention based D2D discovery zone may be designated for transmission of discovery signals in accordance with a purely contention based technique by any ProSe enabled UE. In these embodiments ProSe enabled UEs are not assigned specific discovery resources of the contention based transmission of discover signals . ProSe enabled UEs that utilize the contention based D2D discovery zone may include ProSe enabled UEs in RRC connected mode ProSe enabled UEs in RRC idle mode and ProSe enabled UEs that are out of coverage.

In some of these embodiments an eNB may provide the signaling of D2D discovery resources and both contention based and contention free D2D discovery resources may be partitioned and configured by the eNB. In some embodiments the partitioning may be logical. For the actual partitioning of resources it would eventually be up to the network or the eNB i.e. based on implementation . In some embodiments some of the physical resources overlap between the two zones resource pools although the scope of the embodiments is not limited in this respect.

In some embodiments application layer signaling may be used to signal the D2D discovery zone configuration. In these embodiments a D2D server may signal the D2D discovery zone configuration during D2D registration of the ProSe enabled UEs. Changes to the D2D discovery zone configuration may be signaled to the ProSe enabled UEs by application layer reconfiguration messages from the D2D server.

In some embodiments non access stratum NAS signaling may be used to signal the D2D discovery zone configuration. In these embodiments a mobility management entity MME may signal the D2D discovery zone configuration during D2D registration of the ProSe enabled UEs with a D2D server. In these embodiments either the UE or the D2D server may request the discovery zone information. For both of the above signaling options application layer or NAS signaling it may be less efficient to support contention free resource allocation to RRC CONNECTED UEs because discovery zone resource is managed by the MME instead of the eNB and consequently dynamic resource allocation is not preferred due to the signaling overhead in core network.

In some embodiments the discovery zone metrics include a count of discovery signal transmissions in a number of occurrences of the discovery zone e.g. a count number . In some embodiments the discovery zone metrics further include a number of unique discovery signal transmissions and the eNB may determine a number of ProSe enabled UEs based on the discovery zone loading metrics. In some embodiments the discovery zone metrics may include at least one of a number of discovery signal transmissions in a number of occurrences of the discovery zone a number of successfully detected discovery signals in a number of occurrences of the discovery zone and an indication of the interference level in a number of occurrences of the discovery zone. In some of these embodiments ProSe enabled UEs may be able to distinguish the discovery signal transmissions of other UEs based on the DMRS and the discovery zone metrics may include a number of blindly detected unique DMRS sequences or unique cyclic shift values.

In these embodiments UEs may be configured to provide feedback for configuration of D2D discovery zones. For the case of cell specific discovery zone configurations the eNB may receive information on the loading in the cell from ProSe enabled UEs participating in the discovery process. However an eNB may only know about the number of such ProSe enabled UEs in RRC CONNECTED mode. The eNB may not be aware of the number of the RRC IDLE mode UEs participating in D2D discovery within its serving area. Some embodiments provide the eNB with the information about the loading of the discovery zones are realized via enabling UE feedback.

In some embodiments ProSe enabled UEs may report the number of transmissions in the past N discovery zones where N may be a pre determined or configurable parameter in the form of a paging response. Since the paging cycle may be configured in a UE specific way with different groups of LTES assigned different subframes for monitoring paging the number of UEs initiating a random access RA procedure as a paging response to provide this feedback may be managed by the eNB. Note that given the low duty cycle of the configuration of the discovery zones it would not be necessary for the eNB to request for this feedback from all RRC IDLE mode UEs at the same paging subframe to estimate the amount of loading of the discovery zones. Since the silencing factor may be configured by the eNB its impact may be factored in by the eNB in deriving this estimate.

The request for the feedback on number of transmissions in the past N discovery zones may be added to the paging message and enabled by the eNB when it requires a UE or a set of UEs to report this metric. Additionally the number of RRC CONNECTED mode UEs participating in D2D discovery may be known to the eNB by using the above mechanism or via feedback requests indicated via dedicated RRC or MAC CE signaling.

In some other embodiments a UE may report discovery related metrics or measurement reporting similar to Minimization Driving Test MDT or as a part of MDT reporting. In idle mode the UE stores and accumulates the measurement and reports the logged measurement once the UE is connected. In connected mode the UE can report discovery related measurement in a periodic or event triggered manner. Since reporting is not immediate in case of idle mode time stamp that indicates the moment of logging measurement results may need to be included. In addition the detailed location related information e.g. cell index or GPS information may be also included. For discovery related metrics or measurements as described above the number of transmissions in the past N discovery zones may be reported. Alternatively the interference level or the number of successfully detected D2D discovery packet transmissions may be reported. For instance assuming discovery packet transmissions using randomly selected DM RS base sequences and or cyclic shifts for PUSCH based discovery packet transmission the UEs can report the number of blindly detected unique DM RS sequences or cyclic shifts summed or averaged over the most recent N1 D2D discovery zone where N1 may be pre determined or configurable.

In these embodiments the RACH is used for D2D UEs counting Counting of ProSe enabled i.e. D2D capable UEs is performed during UE s initial Contention Based Random Access CBRA procedure operations and . In these embodiments a UE s ProSe capability may be included in the message transmitted operation . These embodiments may be used to count RRC CONNECTED as well as RCC IDLE mode UEs.

In some embodiments the D2D counting request message operation may include plurality of dedicated RACH preambles allocated for D2D counting and the D2D counting response message operation may comprise one of the RACH preambles selected by a ProSe enabled UE and transmitted within an assigned access slot e.g. a RACH time frequency resource .

In these embodiments a set of dedicated RACH preambles may be included in D2D counting request message. Upon receiving a counting request from the network for D2D counting purpose a D2D capable UE responds by sending a RACH preamble selected from the pool of RACH preambles allocated for D2D UE counting purpose the UE transmits the selected preamble on the assigned access slot RACH channel time frequency resource . Note that a relatively coarse estimation of the number of D2D capable UEs may be sufficient to determine whether D2D discovery resources need to added or reduced compared to the current configuration that may be achieved by comparing to a certain threshold number that relates to the current D2D resource configuration . A very accurate counting of larger numbers of UEs is not necessary. Therefore by allocating a number of preamble signature timeslot combinations similar to or only a little greater than this threshold number it is straightforward to derive the required information.

In these embodiments counting the D2D capable UEs in RRC CONNECTED mode might be sufficient in some cases for optimized discovery resources allocation due to the fact that discovery signal resources is typically allocated in a semi static manner and any RCC IDLE Mode D2D capable UE has to use the contention based resources for D2D discovery due to lack of RRC context in the radio access network. The network has the capability to gradually adjust the resources according to the detected statistics of the D2D resource utilization and the likelihood of collisions. Therefore as defined as part of the MBMS counting procedure the E UTRAN first initiates the procedure by sending a D2DCountingRequest message. Upon receiving the D2DCountingRequest message the UE capable of D2D discovery in RRC CONNECTED mode shall transmit a D2DCountingResponse message.

In some embodiments an eNB may determine the number of ProSe enabled UEs based on RRC messages indicating discovery resource release transmitted by ProSe enabled UEs in RRC connected mode. In some of these embodiments ProSe enabled UEs in RRC CONNECTED mode can transmit an RRC message indicating discovery resource release even if they have not yet been configured with dedicated discovery resources. This information can assist the eNB in estimating the number of ProSe enabled UEs in RRC CONNECTED mode participating in D2D discovery and can thereby optimize the resource allocation for RRC CONNECTED mode UEs.

In some embodiments the eNB may determine the number of ProSe enabled UEs based on reception of periodic tracking area TA messages having a D2D capability indication transmitted by ProSe enabled UEs in RRC idle mode. In these embodiments ProSe enabled UEs in RRC idle mode may be configured to add the D2D capability indication to the periodic tracking area TA messages.

In some embodiments a ProSe enabled UE may be configured to receive device to device D2D discovery zone configuration signaling from an enhanced node B eNB to indicate time and frequency resources and a periodicity of a discovery zone and to indicate one or more discovery zone operational parameters. In some embodiments when a UE is in radio resource control RRC idle mode RCC IDLE the UE may transition to RRC connected mode RRC CONNECTED to send a discovery resource request to the eNB. The UE may autonomously switch back to the RRC idle mode upon reception of a resource configuration message from the eNB at least for transmission in a contention based D2D discovery zone CB D2D DZ .

In some embodiments an eNB may be configured to exchange D2D discovery zone configuration information with one or more neighbor eNBs. The eNB may be configured to signal the D2D discovery zone configuration information of the one or more neighbor eNBs to ProSe enabled UE e.g. via SIB signaling . In these embodiments a certain level of coordination between the neighboring eNBs may support of inter eNB discovery especially for the case of cell specific configuration of D2D discovery zones. In some embodiments eNBs may exchange information on the configuration of D2D discovery zones in their respective cells. The D2D discovery configuration of a neighboring cell may be signaled to the UEs by the respective serving cells. In some alternate embodiments the serving cell may inform the UEs about the location of the relevant system information block SIB transmitted by the neighboring cells and the UEs may acquire the corresponding SIB and thereby know the D2D discovery zone configuration in neighboring cells. For both cases it may be up to UE implementation especially for UE based open discovery as to whether to transmit and or listen on the D2D discovery zones that do not overlap with its serving cell D2D discovery zone of all the cells in its neighbor cell list of only a selected subset thereof.

For network common configuration of D2D discovery zones constituent cells may be configured to maintain tight time synchronization with respect to subframe boundary subframe number SFN etc. to enable a common D2D discovery zone. This may be achieved for instance using backhaul based synchronization or using GPS. In some embodiments the requirements on tight time synchronization may be relaxed by using an extended cyclic prefix CP for the D2D discovery zones and using a normal length cyclic prefix for non discovery zones.

For D2D discovery zones that are configured on a cell specific basis one challenge arises from the issue of coexistence of D2D discovery transmission reception and cellular WAN traffic. Since the D2D discovery zones are configured in the currently defined UL subframes the inter cell interference between D2D discovery signal transmissions and UL PUSCH transmissions may be managed for example by UL scheduling and UL power control for PUSCH transmissions incorporating some form of transmit power control e.g. by configuring the maximum transmit power for transmission of discovery signals employing a cell clustering approach and or the selection of discovery resources by the UE based on UE geometry. These embodiments are discussed in more detail below.

In some embodiments to signal the D2D discovery zone configuration information of the one or more neighbor eNBs the eNB when operating as a serving eNB is configured to provide location information for system information blocks SIB transmitted by one or more neighboring eNBs to allow UEs being served by the serving eNB to acquire the SIBs the SIBs indicating D2D discovery zone configuration for the one or more neighboring eNBs. In these embodiments it may be up to the UE implementation especially for UE based open discovery as to whether to transmit and or listen on the D2D discovery zones that do not overlap with its serving cell D2D discovery zone of all the cells in its neighbor cell list of only a selected subset thereof. In these embodiments the UE may receive the signaling from a serving eNB when in RRC connected mode and may receive the signaling from an eNB that the UE is camping on when the UE is in RRC idle mode. In accordance with embodiments a UE has a serving eNB when in RRC connected mode while when in RRC idle mode the UE camps on an eNB since it is not being service by an eNB when in idle .

In some embodiments an eNB is configured to exchange D2D discovery zone configuration information one or more neighbor eNBs. Based the D2D discovery zone configuration information of the one or more neighbor eNBs the eNB may be configured to engage in an inter cell interference reduction technique to reduce intra cell and inter cell interference within the discovery zone and inter cell interference between discovery signal transmissions and uplink cellular transmissions. The inter cell interference reduction technique include one or more of 

Some embodiments may incorporate a form of transmit power control e.g. by configuring the maximum transmit power for transmission of discovery signals. In some embodiments multiple maximum power classes for D2D discovery signal can predefined and the selected maximum transmit power level may be signaled to UE through D2D discovery configuration signaling.

Some embodiments may employ a cell clustering approach whereby neighboring cells align their D2D discovery zone configurations via information exchange via X2 . In these embodiments only the time frequency resources reserved for D2D discovery zones may need to be aligned and each cell can configure a silencing factor discussed in more detail below independently to adjust for variations in the loading of the D2D discovery zones to manage intra cell intra cluster interference within the D2D discovery zones.

In some embodiments the discovery zone operational parameters may include at least one of a silencing factor a transmit power control configuration hopping related parameters and a scrambling ID. In these embodiments irrespective of the type of D2D discovery operation open or restricted discovery for RRC CONNECTED or RCC IDLE ProSe enabled UEs certain parameters related to configuration and transmission of discovery zones and signals e.g. discovery packets may be signaled to the corresponding UEs.

In these embodiments the discovery zone configuration may include any partitioning of the overall zone into contention based and contention free discovery zones. Parameters may be included to indicate the extent of each discovery zone in the time and frequency domains and may indicate a time offset and a periodicity of the configuration of the zones. For a cell specific discovery zone allocation this information would be cell specific and a serving cell may signal the parameters corresponding to the neighboring cells to support inter eNB discovery.

In some embodiments if fixed random silencing is configured a single value for the silencing factor may be signaled. On the other hand for support of more advanced adaptive silencing mechanisms more than one parameter may need to be signaled. In one embodiment each ProSe enabled UE may be configured with a nominal silencing factor that is applied for the first occurrence of the discovery zone for the respective UE. For the subsequent discovery zone occurrences the silencing factor to be applied by the UE may be incremented or decremented within certain lower and upper bounds by certain factors signaled by the network eNB depending on whether the UE transmitted in the previous zone or not. The bounds may either be static preconfigured or configured and updated by the network and or the eNB at a very slow rate although the scope of the embodiments is not limited in this respect.

In some embodiments the eNB may be configured to reduce interference within the discovery zone by employing a silencing and muting protocol for discovery signal transmissions and configured to include the silencing factor in the discovery zone parameters. In these embodiments the silencing and muting protocol configures the ProSe enabled UEs with the silencing factor for use in D2D discovery signal transmission on randomly selected resources of the D2D discovery zone based on a probability indicated by the silencing factor. The effective arrival rate of the discovery packets and thereby the interference level within the D2D discovery zones may be controlled. In these embodiments each ProSe enabled UE that intends to transmit a discovery packet may randomly selects a resource from within the D2D discovery zone and may transmit the packet with a certain probability e.g. 1 p with 0 p 1 . In these embodiments p may be defined as the silencing factor that is configured by the network either in a network common manner or in a cell specific manner by individual serving cells. Alternatively the silencing factor can be represented by the subtracting the transmission probability factor from 1 since the transmission probability factor is defined as 1 minus the silencing factor.

In some embodiments the signaling to the UE indicates that the silencing factor is to be either incremented or decremented for use in subsequent discovery periods of the discovery zone depending on whether the UE transmitted D2D discovery signals in a prior discovery period of the discovery zone.

There are a number of ways to estimate a loading condition of the D2D discovery zone. The loading condition in turn can be used to help determine how to adjust an adaptable silencing factor for a subsequent DZ. In one embodiment option 1 ProSe enabled UEs can count the number of successful cyclic redundancy checks CRCs when decoding a discovery packet from other UEs in the current D2D discovery zone this count of successful CRCs can be denoted by I. A threshold number Threscan be defined such that when Iis greater than Thres UEs can consider the current discovery zone to be heavily loaded and will increase the silencing factor by an amount qfor the next discovery zone. On the other hand if Iis less than or equal to Thresin for the current discovery zone UEs can decrease the silencing factor by an amount qfor the next discovery zone. The threshold number Threscan be either static or configured and updated by the network at a slow rate.

In an embodiment option 2 directed to contention based discovery ProSe enabled UEs may randomly select demodulation reference signal DM RS sequences or discovery preambles when transmitting a discovery packet. On the receiving end UEs receiving discovery transmissions may need to perform discovery preamble detection or packet detection in order to ascertain whether a discovery packet is present in a given discovery resource and perform DM RS identification to ensure appropriate channel estimation and timing frequency offset compensation. When performing discovery preamble detection or packet detection including DM RS blind detection ProSe enabled UEs can calculate the correlation energy of all candidate DM RS sequences and select the DM RS sequence with the highest correlation energy for further baseband processing.

In an additional embodiment directed to contention based discovery a ProSe enabled UE may first determine a maximum correlation energy of all candidate DM RS sequences within each monitored discovery resource. The average maximum correlation energy across all monitored discovery resources in a discovery zone e.g. discovery period herein called MaxEn can be determined subject to a half duplex constraint. A threshold value herein called Thres selected. If MaxEnis greater than or equal to Thresfor the current discovery zone the UE can consider the current discovery zone to be heavily loaded with discovery packet transmissions and can increase the silencing factor by an amount qfor the next discovery zone. Conversely if MaxEnis less than Thresfor the current discovery zone the UE can decrease the silencing factor by an amount qfor the next discovery zone. Threscan be either static or configured and updated by the network at a slow rate.

In another embodiment option 3 a ProSe enabled UE can calculate the maximum and second maximum i.e. second highest correlation energies of candidate DM RS sequences within each monitored discovery resource. The UE can then calculate an average of the second maximum correlation energies herein called MaxSecMaxEn across all monitored discovery resources in a discovery zone subject to a half duplex constraint. A threshold value herein called Thres selected. If MaxSecMaxEnis greater than or equal to Thresfor the current discovery zone the UE can consider the current discovery zone to be heavily loaded with discovery packet transmissions and can increase the silencing factor by an amount qfor the next discovery zone. Conversely if MaxSecMaxEnis less than Thresfor the current discovery zone the UE can decrease the silencing factor by an amount qfor the next discovery zone. Threscan be either static or configured and updated by the network at a slow rate.

In another embodiment option 4 calculate the maximum and second maximum i.e. second highest correlation energies of candidate DM RS sequences within each monitored discovery resource. The UE may then calculate a ratio between the maximum and second maximum correlation energies within each monitored discovery resource and compare this calculated ratio to a threshold ratio herein called Thres . The UE can then calculate a count of the number of discovery resources in the current discovery zone for which the calculated ratio is greater than or equal to Thres. An average count across all monitored discovery resources within a discovery period subject to a half duplex constraint can be determined herein referred to as I. Ican then be compared to a threshold value herein called Thres. If Iis less than Thresfor the current discovery zone the UE can consider the current discovery zone to be heavily loaded with discovery packet transmissions and can increase the silencing factor by an amount qfor the next discovery zone. Conversely if Iis greater than or equal to Thres for the current discovery zone the UE can decrease the silencing factor by an amount qfor the next discovery zone. Threscan be either static or configured and updated by the network at a slow rate.

In another embodiment option 5 a plurality of the options 1 4 can be used in combination to derive a composite metric to estimate the loading condition in a discovery zone. An additional option of considering whether the UE transmitted in previous discovery zone may also be used in conjunction with any combination of options 1 4 to derive such a composite metric. A threshold value herein referred to as Thres can be selected for the composite metric. If a current discovery zone s value for the composite metric is greater than or equal to Thres the UE can consider the current discovery zone to be heavily loaded with discovery packet transmissions and can increase the silencing factor by an amount qfor the next discovery zone. Conversely if the current discovery zone s value for the composite metric is less than Thres the UE can decrease the silencing factor by an amount qfor the next discovery zone. Threscan be either static or configured and updated by the network at a slow rate.

In another embodiment one or more of the criteria listed above e.g. options 1 5 can be used as parameters for functions that define the increment factor qand the decrement factor q. A predefined function for example can receive criteria as parameters and use these parameters to determine a value for the increment factor qthat is used to adjust the silencing factor for a subsequent discovery zone. A predefined function g in another example can receive criteria as parameters and use these parameters to determine a value for the decrement factor qthat is used to adjust the silencing factor for a subsequent discovery zone.

In embodiments that estimate the loading condition of the D2D discovery zone and adapt the silencing factor the silencing factor can be constrained to fit a lower bound and or an upper bound. Such a lower bound and or upper bound can be either static or configured and updated by the network at a slow rate.

In some embodiments ProSe enabled UEs can be allowed to transmit multiple copies of discovery packets within the same discovery zone. In embodiments where this is permitted discovery zones can be divided into sub discovery zones sub DZs . The schemes to adapt the silencing probability as described in options 1 5 can be applied using sub discovery zones sub DZs in place of DZs.

In some embodiments a conditional silencing probability pcan be defined for a retransmission within a DZ. This conditional silencing probability can be conditioned on the event that the UE transmits the initial discovery signal in the DZ. If the initial discovery signal is actually transmitted during the DZ one or more subsequent retransmissions of the discovery signal could be transmitted with probability p. The conditional silencing probability pcan be either static or configured and updated by the network at a slow rate.

In another embodiment different types of D2D discovery messages can have different sizes. Discovery packets for public safety PS and non PS D2D discovery messages for example typically have different sizes. A ProSe enabled UE may be configured to transmit retransmit a discovery packet a different number of times in a DZ or a sub DZ depending on the size of the discovery packet. A fixed or adaptive silencing factor can be applied to an initial discovery signal transmission a retransmission or both. The approaches described above e.g. in options 1 5 can be used to adjust an adaptive silencing factor based on loading conditions.

In another embodiment the approaches described above e.g. in options 1 5 can be used to estimate loading conditions within a set of discovery periods. The comparison metrics described in options 1 5 for example can be averaged over n previous discovery periods in a discovery zone in order to have a larger sample size of discovery periods from which to estimate current loading conditions. The set of n previous discovery periods may comprise a sliding window of discovery periods such that to estimate loading conditions for a discovery period t metrics from discovery periods t n through t 1 are included in the set.

In some embodiments when the discovery zone parameters include the transmit power control configuration a UE may be configured with a maximum transmit power for transmission of D2D discovery signals that is lower than a transmit power specified by a respective UE category. In these embodiments depending on the discovery traffic conditions and use cases ProSe enabled UEs may be configured with a maximum transmit power that may be lower than that specified by the respective UE category. The maximum transmit power may be applied for discovery packet transmission. If supported additional parameters related to more advanced adaptive power control options would need to be signaled as well.

In some embodiments when the discovery zone parameters comprise include the hopping related parameters the hopping related parameters indicate 

In these embodiments for contention free discovery resource allocations certain randomized hopping related signaling may be provided to the UE. Further for payload based transmissions wherein the each discovery packet transmission spans multiple PRB pairs different types of intra or inter subframe hopping may be configured.

In some embodiments when the discovery zone parameters comprise include the scrambling identity the scrambling identity may to be used for scrambling of a CRC mask of the D2D discovery packets. A common scrambling ID may be assigned per discovery group. In these embodiments a scrambling Identity ID may be used for scrambling of the CRC mask of the discovery packets. The scrambling identity may be common per discovery group. For open discovery all ProSe enabled UEs within the network for network common discovery resource configuration or within cells or cell clusters for cell specific discovery resource configuration may be configured with a common scrambling ID.

For restricted discovery the scrambling ID may be used for filtering of decoded candidates by the discovering UE before sending the list of candidates to the upper layers for verification for restricted discovery. For closed discovery the scrambling is the same on a per white list basis for restricted discovery. In this way those ProSe enabled UEs that are not on white list will not be able to decode the packet. The closed group scrambling seed should be generated by the D2D server and sent together with the white list group information during D2D registration not through SIB paging .

In some embodiments for restricted discovery a temporary identifier Temp ID may be used to differentiate the same ProSe enabled UE belonging to different discovery groups different white lists of other ProSe enabled UEs . Each ProSe enabled UE transmitting as part of restricted discovery is assigned with one or more Temp IDs that replace the UE identity in the discovery packet. When a discovering UE decodes such a packet it forwards the decoded Temp ID s to the network for further identification and verification as part of the restricted discovery process. For example consider three ProSe enabled UEs participating in restricted discovery UE A UE B and UE C. UE A and UE B belong to distinct groups A and B respectively and don not have each other in their respective white lists while UE C is in both the white lists. Then UE C may be assigned two distinct Temp IDs UE Ca and UE Cb such that both UE A and UE B can discover UE Ca and UE Cb respectively and thereby with subsequent identification from the network can discover UE C. However UE A and UE B can only discover each other via open discovery operation.

In these embodiments when the D2D discovery resources are explicitly allocated via PDCCH the RRC resource configuration operation may not be required. Combinations of eNB triggered UE triggered contention free resource allocation schemes with eNB decided and UE requested resource release mechanisms may be realized as well.

Additionally resources for D2D discovery may not be reserved i.e. no discovery zones configured at a cell cell cluster level or network level depending on presence of active ProSe enabled UEs. In such a situation a ProSe enabled UE in RRC CONNECTED mode can send a request for allocation of D2D discovery resources via RRC or application layer. If it is requested via application layer this request will be sent to D2D server which in turn requests the eNB to turn on discovery zone or allocate additional resources for contention free discovery as required. Also a ProSe enabled UE in RCC IDLE mode can transit to connected mode to send discovery resource request. However it may not involve RRC connection set up. For example the UE can send RRC connect request only indicating discovery zone request. Alternatively the UE autonomously goes to idle mode when the eNB sends acknowledgement or discovery radio resource configuration message for the discovery request message.

In some embodiments D2D discovery resources may be statically provisioned. For support of D2D discovery for national security and public safety NSPS use cases in outside or partial network coverage scenarios certain periodic time frequency resources may be pre configured for the public safety PS ProSe enabled UEs as D2D discovery resources. Such resources could be configured to have a low duty cycle and under appropriate conditions depending on the exact D2D discovery protocol additional resources may be allocated to supplement the preconfigured D2D discovery zones by coordinating UEs for partial or outside network coverage scenarios. The configuration of the additional resources can follow the principles outlined above with consideration of the presence of the statically preconfigured default D2D discovery zones.

In some embodiments for geometry based intra cell D2D discovery zone partitioning a UE may receive signaling from a serving eNB indicating D2D discovery zone configuration information of one or more neighbor eNBs including discovery resources of the D2D discovery zone used for at least one of cell center D2D UEs and cell edge D2D UEs. The UE may select resources indicated for cell center D2D UEs or cell edge D2D UEs for transmission of D2D discovery signals based at least on an RSRP of a serving eNB. In these embodiments a UE may select a discovery resource based on UE geometry. The discovery zone may be divided and some of discovery resource is mainly used for cell center UEs if these discovery resources are used for normal UL scheduling in neighboring cells. The ProSe enabled UEs that have the ratio RSRP RSRPgreater than some pre defined or configured threshold can transmit D2D discovery packets in the discovery zone reserved for cell center ProSe enabled UEs. In the above RSRPis the serving cell RSRP and RSRPcorresponds to the RSRP for the link to the cell in the neighbor cell list with the maximum RSRP value. This geometry based intra cell D2D discovery zone partitioning coupled with careful scheduling of PUSCH transmissions in the cells with WAN traffic can enable co existence of D2D discovery zones and LTE UL transmissions in neighboring cells. The eNBs can exchange information on the discovery resource used for cell center D2D UEs or cell edge D2D UEs. In some of these embodiments the UE may selected the discovery resource based on RSRPinstead of the ratio and would work similarly especially in NWs with eNBs with similar transmission power e.g. for macro only networks.

In one example the ProSe enabled UE can estimate the loading condition within the first discovery period of the discovery zone e.g. a contention based D2D discovery zone by counting a number of successful cyclic redundancy checks CRC when decoding the discovery packets received from the other UEs subject to a half duplex constraint comparing the number of successful cyclic redundancy checks CRC to a threshold number which may be static or periodically updated by a signal from an eNB increasing the silencing factor if the number of successful cyclic redundancy checks CRC equals or exceeds the threshold number and decreasing the silencing factor if the number of successful cyclic redundancy checks CRC is less than the threshold number.

In another example the ProSe enabled UE can estimate the loading condition within the first discovery period of the discovery zone a contention based D2D discovery zone by performing a discovery preamble detection or a discovery packet detection including demodulation and reference signal DM RS blind detection receiving a plurality of DM RS sequences within each of a plurality of discovery resources located within the first discovery period calculating correlation energies of all DM RS sequences that comprise the plurality of DM RS sequences within the first discovery zone and selecting a DM RS sequence from the plurality of DM RS sequences within each of the plurality of discovery resources where the selected DM RS sequence has a maximum calculated correlation energy relative to the calculated correlation energies of all DM RS sequences that comprise the plurality of DM RS sequences that may be transmitted on the respective discovery resource.

The ProSe enabled UE can also be configured to estimate the loading condition by calculating an average maximum correlation energy within the first discovery zone across all monitored discovery resources within a discovery period subject to a half duplex constraint comparing the average maximum correlation energy to a threshold correlation energy which may be static or periodically updated by a signal from an eNB increasing the silencing factor if the average maximum correlation energy is greater than or equal to the threshold correlation energy and decreasing the silencing factor if the average maximum correlation energy is less than the threshold correlation energy.

The ProSe enabled UE can also be configured to estimate the loading condition by selecting a second DM RS sequence from the plurality of DM RS sequences within each of a plurality of discovery resources located within the first discovery period where the second DM RS sequence has a second maximum calculated correlation energy relative to the calculated correlation energies of all of the DM RS sequences that comprise the plurality of DM RS sequences that may be transmitted on the discovery resource calculating an average second maximum correlation energy within the first discovery zone across all monitored discovery resources within a discovery period subject to a half duplex constraint comparing the second maximum calculated correlation energy to a threshold correlation energy which may be static or periodically updated by a signal from an eNB increasing the silencing factor if the second maximum calculated correlation energy is greater than or equal to the threshold correlation energy and decreasing the silencing factor if the second maximum calculated correlation energy is less than the threshold correlation energy.

In another example ProSe enabled UE can be configured to estimate the loading condition by performing discovery preamble or packet detection including demodulation reference signal DM RS blind detection receiving a plurality of DM RS sequences in each of a plurality of discovery resources located within the first discovery period calculating a correlation energy for each DM RS sequence for each of the plurality of discovery resources located within the first discovery period determining a maximum correlation energy for each discovery resource in the first discovery zone wherein the maximum correlation energy for each of the plurality of discovery resources located within the discovery period comprises the maximum correlation energy of any DM RS sequence that may be transmitted on the respective discovery resource determining a second maximum correlation energy for each of the plurality of discovery resources located within the first discovery period calculating a correlation energy ratio for each of the plurality of discovery resources located within the first discovery period wherein the correlation energy ratio for a selected discovery resource comprises a ratio between the maximum correlation energy of the selected discovery resource and the second maximum correlation energy of the selected discovery resource calculating a threshold meet count for each discovery resource on each of the plurality of discovery resources located in the first discovery period where the threshold meet count for a selected discovery resource is incremented when the correlation energy ratio of the selected discovery resource is greater than or equal to a threshold ratio which may be static or updated periodically by a signal from an eNB calculating an average threshold meet count across all monitored discovery resources located within the first discovery zone comparing the average threshold meet count to a threshold number which may be static or updated periodically by a signal from an eNB increasing the silencing factor if the average threshold meet count is less than the threshold number and decreasing the silencing factor if the average threshold meet count is greater than or equal to the threshold number.

In another example the ProSe enabled UE can be configured to estimate the loading condition by using a function that quantify the loading condition within the first discovery period receives input that comprises one or more of the following an indicator that indicates whether the UE transmitted in a previous discovery period a number of successful cyclic redundancy checks CRC wherein the hardware circuitry is further configured to count the number of successful CRC when decoding discovery packets received from the other UEs within the first discovery period a maximum correlation energy within the first discovery zone wherein the hardware circuitry is further configured to determine the maximum correlation energy by calculating correlation energies of a plurality of DM RS sequences that are received at the UE on each of the plurality of discovery resources located within the first discovery period and setting the maximum correlation energy equal to a highest calculated correlation energy associated with a DM RS sequence in the plurality of DM RS sequences a second maximum correlation energy within the first discovery zone wherein the hardware circuitry is further configured to determine the second maximum correlation energy by calculating correlation energies of a plurality of DM RS sequences that are received at the UE on each of the plurality of discovery resources located within the first discovery period and setting the second maximum correlation energy equal to a second highest calculated correlation energy associated with a DM RS sequence in the plurality of DM RS sequences or an average threshold meet count where the hardware circuitry is further configured to calculate the average threshold meet count by counting a number of discovery resources on each of the plurality of discovery resources located in the first discovery period for which a ratio of a maximum correlation energy and a second maximum correlation energy is greater than or equal to a threshold ratio and averaging over the number of discovery resources in the first discovery period of the discovery zone. The ProSe enabled UE can increase the silencing factor when the loading condition quantified by the function is greater than or equal to a threshold value and decrease the silencing factor when the loading condition quantified by the function is less than the threshold value. These threshold values may be static or may be updated periodically by a signal from the UE. The silencing factor may be bounded by an upper bound value and a lower bound value. The silencing factor may be increased by an increment factor Qwhen the loading condition quantified by the function is greater than or equal to a threshold value and decreased by a decrement factor Qwhen the loading condition quantified by the function is less than the threshold value.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and examples may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as de facto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the claimed subject matter can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the claimed subject matter.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present claimed subject matter in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the claimed subject matter. Accordingly it is not intended that the claimed subject matter be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

