---

title: Systems and methods for operating industrial automation devices based on hierarchical level awareness
abstract: An industrial automation component may be configured to receive an input that corresponds to at least one of a plurality of hierarchical levels associated with an industrial automation system. The industrial automation component may also receive data from a first set of industrial automation components associated with the at least one of the plurality of hierarchical levels. After receiving the data, the industrial automation component may send one or more commands to the first set of industrial automation components, wherein the commands are configured to control one or more operations of at least one of the first set of industrial automation components.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09651941&OS=09651941&RS=09651941
owner: Rockwell Automation Technologies, Inc.
number: 09651941
owner_city: Mayfield Heights
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140501
---
The present disclosure generally relates to enabling devices within an industrial automation system to become aware of certain attributes pertaining to the industrial automation system or a part of the industrial automation system in which the devices are located. More specifically the present disclosure relates to systems and methods for industrial automation devices to analyze its received data with respect to various parts of the industrial automation system or the industrial automation system as a whole.

In one embodiment an industrial automation component may be configured to receive an input that corresponds to at least one of a plurality of hierarchical levels associated with an industrial automation system. The industrial automation component may also receive data from a first set of industrial automation components associated with the at least one of the plurality of hierarchical levels. After receiving the data the industrial automation component may send one or more commands to the first set of industrial automation components wherein the commands are configured to control one or more operations of at least one of the first set of industrial automation components.

In another embodiment a system may include a processor that may receive an input that corresponds to at least one of a plurality of hierarchical levels associated with an industrial automation system. The processor may then receive data from a set of industrial automation components associated with the at least one of the plurality of hierarchical levels. The processor may also send one or more commands to the set of industrial automation components such that the commands control one or more operations of each industrial automation component of the set of industrial automation components. The system may also include a graphical user interface GUI that may receive the input via a slider visualization wherein the slider visualization is configured to select the at least one of the plurality of hierarchical levels.

In yet another embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium may include computer executable instructions that receive identification information associated with a user of an industrial control system and receive an input that corresponds to at least one of a plurality of hierarchical levels associated with the industrial automation system. The computer readable medium may also determine whether the at least one of the plurality of hierarchical levels corresponds to one or more hierarchical levels associated with the identification information. The computer readable medium may then display one or more control functions configured to control one or more operations of one or more industrial automation components associated with the at least one of the plurality of hierarchical levels when the at least one of the plurality of hierarchical levels corresponds to the one or more hierarchical levels associated with the identification information.

One or more specific embodiments will be described below. In an effort to provide a concise description of these embodiments not all features of an actual implementation are described in the specification. It should be appreciated that in the development of any such actual implementation as in any engineering or design project numerous implementation specific decisions must be made to achieve the developers specific goals such as compliance with system related and business related constraints which may vary from one implementation to another. Moreover it should be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking of design fabrication and manufacture for those of ordinary skill having the benefit of this disclosure.

When introducing elements of various embodiments of the present invention the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are generally directed towards an industrial automation system that may employ a number of industrial automation components to perform various industrial processes. In one embodiment each of the industrial automation components may be capable of connecting to an industrial automation network that may facilitate communication between each of the connected industrial automation components. The industrial automation network may include any wired or wireless network that may be implemented as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and the like. As such an industrial automation component may include properties that enable the industrial automation component to be recognized once the industrial automation component is connected to the industrial automation network. Moreover each industrial automation component already connected to the industrial automation system may be able to recognize other industrial automation components as they connect to the industrial automation network. By providing the ability to be recognized by industrial automation components and to recognize other industrial automation components the devices and controllers employed in the industrial automation system that correspond to the connected industrial automation components may become aware of the industrial automation environment in which they exist. Using this awareness information the devices and controllers may more efficiently control the operations of the industrial automation system by communicating with other industrial automation components and altering certain operations of the devices and controllers to maximize the efficiency of the energy used in the industrial automation system the production of the industrial automation system or any combination thereof.

In certain situations once the industrial automation components recognize each other and begin communicating with each other via the industrial automation network each industrial automation component may become aware of various attributes pertaining to other industrial automation components in the industrial automation system via the industrial automation network. As such each industrial automation component may optimize their respective operations within the industrial automation system with respect to the attributes of the other industrial automation components. For example an industrial automation component may receive data from other components that may be in a same or different part of the industrial automation system. The data may include system configurations for the other components maintenance schedules for the other components system design modifications for the other components user preferences for the components and any other data that may be stored in or acquired by the other components.

In one embodiment after receiving the data from the other components the respective industrial automation component may then contextualize the received data with respect to different scopes or hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system. That is the respective industrial automation component may associate the received data to a scope or hierarchical level of the industrial automation system. By analyzing the received data with respect to the different scopes of the industrial automation system the respective industrial automation component may adjust its operations and send commands to adjust the operations of other components to more effectively and efficiently control the operation of the overall industrial automation system. Moreover the ability of the respective industrial automation component to contextualize data with respect to different scopes of the industrial automation system may improve a user experience in operating and maintaining an entire industrial automation system or various parts of the industrial automation system.

By way of introduction depicts a block diagram of an example of hierarchical levels that may represent an industrial automation system . The industrial automation system may be any system in the material handling packaging industries manufacturing processing batch processing or any technical field that employs the use of one or more industrial automation components. In one embodiment the industrial automation system may include a factory that may encompass part of the entire industrial automation system . As such the industrial automation system may include additional factories that may be employed with the factory to perform an industrial automation process or the like.

Each factory or factory may be divided into a number of areas which may for example include different production processes that use different types of industrial automation components. In one example one area may include a sub assembly production process and another area may include a core production process. In another example each area may be related to a different operation being performed in the manufacturing process. For instance in a jelly bean manufacturing system the areas may include a jelly bean making area a packaging area a water filtration area and the like. In yet another example the area may include a production line in which a particular industrial process may be performed. Referring back to the jelly bean manufacturing system example the production line may include a cooking line in which the jelly beans may be created a sorting line where the jelly beans may be sorted according to a respective flavor and a packaging line where the sorted jelly beans may be packaged into boxes or the like.

The area may also be associated with physical locations of a number of components with respect to the industrial automation system . The areas may also be related to different discipline areas of the industrial automation system such as batch operation areas continuous operation areas discrete operation areas inventory operation areas and the like.

The areas may be subdivided into smaller units or cells which may be further subdivided into components . Using the example described above the sub assembly production process area may be subdivided into cells that may denote a particular group of industrial automation components that may be used to perform one aspect of the sub assembly production process. As such the cell may include a portion of the area such as first part of a production line. The cell may also different parts of a particular procedure.

These cells may then be further subdivided into components which may correspond to individual industrial automation components such as controllers input output I O modules motor control centers motors human machine interfaces HMIs operator interfaces contactors starters sensors drives relays protection devices switchgear compressors network switches e.g. Ethernet switches modular managed fixed managed service router industrial unmanaged etc. and the like. Although the factory the factories the areas and the cells are termed as factories areas and cells it should be noted that in various industries these groupings may be referred to differently in different industries or the like. For instance the groupings may be termed as units areas sites and the like.

The components may also be related to various industrial equipment such as mixers machine conveyors tanks skids specialized original equipment manufacturer machines and the like. The components may also be associated with devices used by the equipment such as scanners gauges valves flow meters and the like. In one embodiment every aspect of the component may be controlled or operated by a single controller e.g. control system . In another embodiment the control and operation of each aspect of the component may be distributed via multiple controllers e.g. control system .

The components may be used within the corresponding cell area or factory to perform various operations for the respective cell area or factory . In certain embodiments the components may be communicatively coupled to each other to an industrial control system or the like. Additionally the industrial control system may also be communicatively coupled to one or more control systems that may monitor and or control the operations of each respective cell area or factory .

As such the industrial control system may be a computing device that may include communication abilities processing abilities and the like. For example the industrial control system may be a controller such as a programmable logic controller PLC a programmable automation controller PAC or any other controller that may monitor control and operate an industrial automation device or component. The industrial control system may be incorporated into any physical device e.g. the industrial automation components or may be implemented as a stand alone computing device e.g. general purpose computer such as a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a mobile device computing device or the like.

In certain embodiments the industrial control system may be implemented within devices that enable industrial automation components to connect and communicate with each other. For instance the industrial control system may be implemented within network routers and or switches. In this manner the network routers and or switches may host the industrial control system that may be used to control and operate the industrial control components that may be communicatively coupled to the respective network router and or switch. Since network routers and or switches may serve as a hub for data transfers between the industrial automation components the industrial control system embedded within the routers and or switches may be strategically positioned within a data network to have access or receive data associated with various industrial automation components . As such the industrial control system may perform various types of analyses on the received data and may then control and operate the respective industrial automation components more efficiently or effectively based on the results of the analyses.

In addition to the physical devices mentioned above the industrial control system may include a software based emulation of any of the aforementioned physical devices. For example the industrial control system may be implemented as software modules that may perform similar operations as certain hardware controllers devices and the like. As such the industrial control system may create virtual instances of the hardware components e.g. controllers I O modules . These virtual instances may provide more flexible ways in which the industrial control system may be implemented to monitor and control the industrial automation components .

In one embodiment the industrial control system may be implemented virtually in a cloud accessible platform i.e. cloud computing system one or more servers in various computing devices e.g. general purpose computers and the like. As such the industrial control system may operate as a soft controller or as a control engine running in the cloud computing system. By virtually implementing the industrial control system in a cloud computing system the industrial control system may use a distributed computing architecture to perform various analyses and control operations. As more data associated with the industrial automation components the cells the areas and the factories become available the distributed computing architecture in the cloud computing system may enable data analysis to be performed more efficiently. That is since the cloud computing system may incorporate numerous computing systems and processors to perform the data analysis the results of the analysis may be available more quickly. In this way the respective operations of the industrial automation components the cells the areas and the factories may be controlled in real time or near real time.

Keeping the foregoing in mind it should be understood that the industrial control system as mentioned throughout this disclosure may be implemented as physical components and or virtual components i.e. software based used to monitor and or operate the industrial automation components the cells the areas and the factories . Moreover by providing the ability to incorporate the industrial control system into various types of environments the industrial automation system may be well suited to expand and grow with the addition of new industrial automation components .

The industrial control system may also be communicatively coupled to input output I O modules . The I O modules may enable the industrial control system to communicate with various devices in the industrial automation system. Moreover the I O modules may enable the industrial control system to receive information from the various devices such that the information may provide reference points and other details regarding the industrial automation system to assist the industrial control system to become aware of the environment in which the industrial control system may be operating.

Generally the industrial control system may also be communicatively coupled to a certain device that may be used to control or manage the operation of the industrial automation system. For instance in one embodiment the industrial control system may be coupled to a drive . The drive may be an electrical drive that may convert an input alternating current AC voltage into a controllable AC voltage using a rectifier circuit and an inverter circuit. The industrial control system in one embodiment may be a controller that may control the operation of the drive . The drive may be coupled to a motor which may operate a component such as a conveyor or the like. In one embodiment the industrial control system may be communicatively coupled to the operator interface the I O module the drive or the like via a communication network such as EtherNet IP ControlNet DeviceNet or any other industrial communication network protocol.

Keeping the example control system in mind and referring to the drive the motor and the conveyor may each be considered to be a single component . However the drive the motor and the conveyor may also be considered to be a part of a particular cell area and factory . Accordingly the industrial control system may have the ability to adjust the operation of the component the cell the area and the factory . For example by adjusting the operation of the drive the industrial control system may adjust the operation of the motor and the conveyor . Consequently the industrial control system may adjust the operation of the cell the area and the factory having the conveyor as a component. By understanding how each component may be related to the industrial automation system with respect to each area each cell and each component the industrial control system may begin to become capable to manage the operations e.g. production energy usage equipment lifecycle of the industrial automation system more efficiently.

As mentioned above the industrial control system may be a controller or any computing device that may include communication abilities processing abilities and the like. illustrates a detailed block diagram of components in the industrial control system that may be used to perform the techniques described herein. Referring now to the industrial control system may include a communication component a processor a memory a storage input output I O ports and the like. The communication component may be a wireless or wired communication component that may facilitate communication between the industrial automation components the control systems for the factory the area the cell and the like. The processor may be any type of computer processor or microprocessor capable of executing computer executable code. The processor may also include multiple processors that may perform the operations described below. The memory and the storage may be any suitable articles of manufacture that can serve as media to store processor executable code data or the like. These articles of manufacture may represent computer readable media i.e. any suitable form of memory or storage that may store the processor executable code used by the processor to perform the presently disclosed techniques. The memory and the storage may also be used to store the data analysis of the data and the like. The memory and the storage may represent non transitory computer readable media i.e. any suitable form of memory or storage that may store the processor executable code used by the processor to perform various techniques described herein. It should be noted that non transitory merely indicates that the media is tangible and not a signal.

The I O ports may be interfaces that may couple to the I O modules discussed above. Although the block diagram is depicted with respect to the industrial control system it should be noted that the control system for the factory the area the cell and the like may also include the same components to perform the various techniques described herein.

Keeping the foregoing in mind the industrial control system may use the communication component to communicatively couple to one or more control systems. The industrial control system may also monitor and or control the operations of each respective component cell area or factory . For example the control system may receive data received from assets controllers and the like e.g. the components that may be located in the factory the areas or the cells . In one embodiment the industrial control system or a control system for each area cell or component may receive information related to how the industrial automation system may be subdivided how each area cell and component may interact with each other which components are part of each factory area or cell or the like. For example each area may be related to a particular process of a manufacturing process. As such the information received by the respective control system may detail which processes performed in certain areas may depend on other processes being completed in other areas .

In certain embodiments the respective control system may determine how each component may relate to a respective cell or area based on data received from each respective component . For instance a control system of a first component may receive data from multiple other components such as a motor for a conveyer belt and a compressor for some industrial automation device. Upon receiving the data from a second component that corresponds to the motor for the conveyer belt the control system of the first component may determine that the second component is associated with some cell which may be part of some area based on a speed in which the motor may be operating. That is the control system of the first component may refer to information such as system design parameters for the industrial automation system and determine where the motor is located by identifying a motor with operating parameters as specified by the system design parameters having a substantially similar speed as the received speed. In certain embodiments the speed at which the motor may be operating may not be sufficient to identify a particular motor if other motors in the industrial automation system are operating at the same speed. As such the control system may identify a motor by monitoring a speed profile i.e. speed curve over time of each motor in the industrial automation system . Additional ways in which a control system may identify particular components may include monitoring an operating mode e.g. running stopped paused of each component examining network related information e.g. IP addresses MAC addresses sub net masks or a combination of any of these etc. associated with each component monitoring operating temperatures of each component if available e.g. components in certain cells are exposed to more heat cold than others cells monitoring energy consumption data associated with each component e.g. larger drives could be part of and used in certain cells while smaller drives are used in other cells and so forth.

In any case after analyzing the data associated with each component the control system of the first component may determine its relationship with other components of the industrial automation system with respect to the various scopes or hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system . By understanding the relationship to other components with respect to various scopes of the industrial automation system the control system of the first component may become aware of conditions occurring in processes areas or cells that may directly or indirectly affect the operations of the first component . As such the control system of the first component may adjust its operations and send commands to other components to adjust their respective operations to compensate or minimize negative consequences that may occur due to the conditions in the areas the cells or the like. For example production capacity of upstream or downstream cells being automatically adjusted by control systems in the respective cells by monitoring production levels of the cells adjacent to or related to the respective control system. As a result the control systems may optimize production of the industrial automation system by reducing the effects of bottlenecks cells that may lead to over or under production. In another example sections of a conveyor used to transport materials may start adjusting their respective speeds based on other sections of the conveyor or production variances associated with the area the cells or the entire factory . In yet another example the control system of the first component may take into account energy consumption data associated with a second component to adjust the operation of the first component e.g. go to a lower energy consumption mode to maintain overall consumption constant etc. . Additionally after each component becomes aware of the presence or existence of another component some of the components may negotiate and determine an optimal production rates for each component based on pre determined criteria such as energy consumption rates production mix production levels and the like. Keeping the foregoing in mind an example industrial automation system of a packaging factory and how the packaging factory may be divided and sub divided into areas and cells are depicted in . As illustrated in the packaging factory may represent an exemplary high speed packaging line that may be employed in the food and beverage industry that may process beverage containers i.e. a beverage line . As such the packaging factory may include industrial automation components that for example may enable machine components to fill label package or palletize containers. The packaging factory may also include one or more conveyor sections that may transport align or buffer containers between the machine components. Although illustrates a packaging factory it should be noted that the embodiments described herein are not limited for use with a packaging factory. Instead it should be understood that the embodiments described herein may be employed in any industrial automation environment.

As illustrated in the packaging factory may include machine components configured to conduct a particular function with respect the beverage packaging process. For example the beverage packaging process begins at a loading station where pallets of empty cans or bottles to be filled are fed into packaging factory via a conveyor section . The conveyor section transports the empty cans from the loading station to a washing station where the empty cans and bottles are washed and prepared for filling. As the washed cans and bottles exit the washing station the conveyor section may gradually transition into an aligning conveyor section such that the washed cans and bottles enter a filling and sealing station in a single file line.

The filling and sealing station may function at an optimal rate when the washed cans and bottles enter the filling and sealing station in a steady uniform stream. However if the transition between the conveyor section and the aligning conveyor section is erratic or faster than desired the filling and sealing station may not function at an optimal rate. As such optimizing performance parameters e.g. speed size function position arrangement or quantity of the conveyor sections i.e. conveyor section or aligning conveyor section may be beneficial to the efficiency of the packaging factory .

As the sealed cans exit the filling and sealing station a buffering conveyor section may hold the sealed cans to delay their entry into the next station. In addition the buffering conveyor section may transport the sealed cans in a single file line so that the sealed cans arrive at a sterilization station or a labeling station at a desired time with the desired quantity of cans. Similar to the filling and sealing station the packaging station or the labeling station functions efficiently when the buffering conveyor section operates at optimal performance parameters e.g. optimal speed size function position arrangement or quantity . After the cans and bottles have been sterilized and or labeled they are packaged into cases e.g. 6 pack 24 pack etc. at a packaging station before they are palletized for transport at station or stored in a warehouse . Clearly for other applications the particular system components the conveyors and their function will be different and specially adapted to the application.

The packaging factory may also include the industrial control system which may be located in a control room or the like. The industrial control system may be coupled to one or more sensors which may monitor various aspects of the machine components or conveyor sections of the packaging factory . The sensors may include any type of sensor such as a pressure sensor an accelerometer a heat sensor a motion sensor a voltage sensor and the like. The sensors may be located in various positions within the packaging factory and may measure a parameter value of interest relating to the beverage packaging process during the operation of the packaging factory . For example in certain embodiments the sensors may include sensors configured to measure the rate of bottles or containers per minute BPM entering or leaving a machine component i.e. stations or or the rate of accumulation of bottles on a portion of a conveyor section e.g. conveyor section or . In general any sensors capable of measuring a parameter value of interest relating to the beverage packaging process of the packaging factory e.g. rate pressure speed accumulation density distance position arrangement quantity size and so forth may be used.

In some embodiments the packaging factory may include a number of industrial automation power components that may be used to control power used by various machine components in the packaging factory . The power components may include devices such as drives motors inverters switch gear and the like which may be used to operate a corresponding machine component. For example the conveyor section may rotate using a motor which may be controlled via a power component such as a variable frequency drive.

The power component may include a control system that may monitor and control the operations of the respective power component . As such the power component may correspond to the component described above with respect to . Referring back to the example above the control system of the power component such as the drive used to control the motor rotating the conveyor section may monitor a voltage provided to the motor and may determine the speed at which the conveyor section may be moving. In one embodiment the control system of the power component may send the data related to the speed at which the conveyor section may be moving to the industrial control system or to other control systems that may control other components . In this manner the industrial control system or other control systems may be aware of the operations of the power component and may account for these operations when determining how its respective component should operate.

Keeping the packaging factory of in mind the industrial control system may receive data from multiple power components dispersed throughout the packaging factory . The industrial control system may then contextualize the received data with respect to different scopes or hierarchical levels as described above with reference to . For example illustrates how the power components of the packaging factory may be categorized into different scopes.

In one embodiment the scopes of the packaging factory may be categorized based on functions of the components and the cells of the packaging factory . For instance referring to both the loading station may be categorized as cell the washing station may be categorized as cell the sealing station may be categorized as cell the sterilization station may be categorized as cell the labeling station may be categorized as cell and the packaging station may be categorized as cell . As shown in each component may correspond to a particular cell . That is each component that may be used by the respective station may be categorized as part of the respective cell .

In the same manner the areas may be categorized based on functions of the cells of the packaging factory . For instance cells of the packaging factory may correspond to a preparation process and cells of the packaging factory may correspond to a packaging process. As such cells may be categorized as area and cells may be categorized as area .

In one embodiment the industrial control system may determine the categories or scopes of the industrial automation system based on a factory diagram or specification that describes the various processes employed by the industrial automation system and the components used for the respective processes. In another embodiment each control system for each component may include information indicating the function of the component a location of the component with respect to the industrial automation system a part of a manufacturing process that the component is associated with or the like. Here each respective control system of each respective component may send this information to the industrial control system or to other control systems of nearby components . The control system that receives the information may then determine how the component that transmitted the information may relate to the various scopes of the industrial automation system how the component that received the information may be related to the component that transmitted the information with respect to the various scopes of the industrial automation system and the like. In certain embodiments each control system may send information related to the scopes of the industrial automation system information detailing a relationship between each scope of the industrial automation system information detailing a relationship between each component in the industrial automation system with respect to each scope of the industrial automation system and the like to a database which may be accessible by each control system as a centralized database or a database distributed between a number of machines computers or the like.

Keeping the foregoing in mind to share data between control systems in one embodiment each industrial control system may first connect to an industrial automation network. The industrial automation network may include a telecommunications network that may allow the industrial control system to exchange data as described above. As such the industrial automation network may include any type of communicative network including a cloud based network and the like. The industrial automation network may be present in the industrial automation system and may serve as a way in which to communicate to various devices within the industrial automation system . The industrial control system may connect to the industrial automation network via a wired or wireless connection via its communication component .

When the industrial control system connects to the industrial automation network the industrial control system may provide certain information via the industrial automation network to enable other control systems already present or communicatively coupled to the industrial automation network to recognize the industrial control system . For example illustrates a flowchart of a method that the industrial control system may employ to establish or indicate a presence in an industrial automation network that corresponds to the industrial automation system .

Referring now to at block the industrial control system may connect to the industrial automation network. In one embodiment the industrial control system may connect to the industrial automation network using certain verification codes or security parameters that enable the industrial control system to connect to the industrial automation network.

After the industrial control system establishes a connection to the industrial automation network at block the industrial control system may broadcast data such as identification information to the industrial automation network. In one embodiment the industrial control system may push the data automatically after the connection to the industrial automation network is established. When broadcasting the data the industrial control system may send a notification or message to each device or control system communicatively coupled to the industrial automation network indicating that the industrial control system has connected to the industrial automation network.

The data or identification information broadcast to the industrial automation network may include certain details associated with the industrial control system . For example the data may include a serial number a product name a product class a type of data output a list of services provided by the industrial control system and the like that may enable other control systems on the industrial automation network to recognize the type of industrial control system that is now present on the industrial automation network. The data may also include information related to a device or component that may be controlled and or operated by the control system . As such the data may include information related to certain capabilities of the industrial control system . That is the information may provide details concerning how the industrial control system may be capable of operating certain components and its ability to affect certain operations in the cell the area or the factory of the industrial automation system .

In addition to sending identification information the industrial control system may also send contextual data related to how the component the cell the area or the factory associated with the industrial control system may be related to each other. For example the industrial control system may send information related to how the industrial automation system may be subdivided how each area cell and component may interact with each other which components are part of each factory area or cell or the like how operations of each component associated with the industrial control system may relate to a respective cell or area system design parameters for the industrial automation system how the industrial control system is related to other components of the industrial automation system with respect to the various scopes or hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system or the like.

The industrial control system may also send a notification or message that lists all of the artifacts or documents that specify operating procedures associated with a respective component cell or area . The industrial control system may also send a notification or message that provides a physical description or a list of physical properties of various components associated with the industrial control system . As such an operator may identify various components by their respective physical properties.

The industrial control system may also send information related to a type of material that a respective component a respective cell and a respective area may be using or is expecting to perform work or processing operations on. In another example the industrial control system may also send information related to a geographical location associated with the respective component respective cell or respective area or a physical location associated with the respective component respective cell or respective area with respect to the industrial automation system . Additionally the information may include a geographical reference that indicates a region e.g. North America Asia in which the respective component respective cell or respective area may be placed into service.

After broadcasting the identification information at block the industrial control system may receive one or more acknowledgement messages from other control systems or controllers that were previously connected to the industrial automation network. The acknowledgement message may serve as a notice to the industrial control system that its presence has been recognized by the corresponding control system.

In one embodiment at block the industrial control system may receive identification information associated with the control system that sent the acknowledgement message. The identification information may correspond to the information described above with reference to block . By receiving the identification information corresponding to each component joining the industrial automation network the control system of the newly added component may determine its operating parameters based on the location of the component with respect to the surrounding components and the types of devices correspond to the surrounding components . For instance if a new loading station and a new washing station is added to the packaging factory the control system associated with the buffering conveyor section may determine that it may receive two times as many bottles as it may have previously received since the input mechanisms for the bottles has doubled. As such the control system for the buffering conveyor section may double the speed at which it operates to increase the production capacity of the packaging factory .

In certain embodiments the industrial control system may include a database of drivers or other software tools that may be used to establish a communication link with and connect to the industrial control system to various components including components that may not be manufactured by the same manufacturer of the industrial control system . That is the industrial control system may be capable of interacting with and controlling various types of components manufactured by various manufacturers using the drivers after the industrial control system detects the presence of the various types of components via the industrial automation network. As such the industrial control system may be capable of sending control commands to various types of components manufactured by various manufacturers. In one embodiment the database of drivers may be stored in the memory or the storage of the industrial control system . However it should be noted that the database of drivers may also be stored in a cloud computing device server another control system connected to the industrial automation network and the like.

Generally the drivers may act as a translator between the industrial control system and the corresponding control interface or operating system of the corresponding component . As such by using the driver associated with a particular component the industrial control system may quickly establish a communication link and be capable of controlling the various components without configuring or adjusting configurations of the industrial control system . That is an operator should not have to program or alter the configuration of the industrial control system such that the industrial control system may establish a communication connection with and or control the operations of the various types of components .

Keeping the foregoing in mind depicts a flowchart of a method that other control systems communicatively coupled to the industrial automation network may employ when recognizing a newly coupled control system. For example after the industrial control system establishes a connection to the industrial automation network the control systems or other devices already coupled to the industrial automation network may employ the method to provide an indication to the industrial control system that its presence has been recognized.

Referring now to at block a control system already connected to the industrial automation network may receive identification information from the industrial control system which may have recently coupled to the industrial automation network. Upon receiving the identification information from the industrial control system the control system may at block send an acknowledgement message to the industrial control system .

At block the control system may send identification information related to itself and its corresponding operations to the industrial control system . In one embodiment the control system may send the identification information to the newly connected industrial control system automatically upon recognizing that the industrial control system has connected to the industrial automation network. As such each control system coupled to the industrial automation network may become aware of the presence and capabilities of each component available in the industrial automation system .

In general when the control systems described herein become aware of each other each control system generally recognizes the presence of the respective control systems in the industrial automation network and their respective capabilities and relationships within the industrial automation system. As such an aware control system may make operational decisions that account for the effects of the decisions with respect to the operations of the other control systems on the industrial automation network. By consciously making operational decisions that account for the operations of other control systems the aware control system may efficiently manage the operation of the entire industrial automation system .

In one embodiment the industrial control system may analyze the identification information received from each control system on the industrial automation network to determine various characteristics of each control system and its relationship to the industrial automation system . For instance illustrates a flowchart of a method for determining relationship information between the components of the industrial automation system . The method may be performed by the industrial control system but it should be noted that any control system i.e. with respect to area cell or component may be used to perform the method . In one embodiment the processor of the industrial control system may perform the blocks of the method .

Referring now to at block the industrial control system may receive data from one or more of the components in the industrial automation system . The data may include identifying information that corresponds to a particular component . The data may also include information related to devices being controlled or operated by the component information related to power being provided to these devices information gathered by various sensors disposed on the component and the like.

At block the industrial control system may organize the received data with respect to different scopes of the industrial automation system as described above. That is the industrial control system may contextualize the received data with respect to various scopes or hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system based on a diagram or specification that details the operations of the industrial automation system .

At block the industrial control system may determine effectual relationships between the components from which the industrial control system may receive data. The effectual relationship may include information indicating how one component may affect the operations of a different component . For example referring back to if a load increases on the conveyor section e.g. more bottles on the conveyor the motor associated with the conveyor section may draw more current from the power component to maintain an expected speed at which the conveyor section operates. As such upon detecting the increased load the industrial control system may increase a power demand from the power component to maintain the speed of the conveyor section . Moreover given the load increase the industrial control system may determine that the washing station should wash each container more quickly and may increase the speed at which the washing station operates. As such the washing station may draw additional power from a respective power component that may provide power to the washing station . In this situation the industrial control system may determine that the power component associated with the conveyor section may have an effectual relationship with the power component associated with the washing station .

After the industrial control system determines the effectual relationship information regarding the components in which it received data from the industrial control system may at block store the effectual relationship information as effectual relationship data. In one embodiment the industrial control system may store the effectual relationship data in the memory or storage components of the industrial control system . Alternatively or additionally the industrial control system may send the effectual relationship data to a control system associated with each component or to the database such that other control systems may access the data and base its operations on the information stored therein.

In certain embodiments the industrial control system may analyze the data received from each component and adjust the operations of various areas cells or components based on its analysis. for example depicts a flowchart of a method for controlling operations of the components based on the effectual relationship data described above. Like the method above in one embodiment the processor of the industrial control system may perform the method .

Referring now to at block the industrial control system may monitor data received from the components of the industrial automation system with respect to different scopes of the industrial automation system . That is the industrial control system may receive data from various components contextualize the received data with respect to the factories areas and the cells of the industrial automation system .

After contextualizing the received data the industrial control system may at block determine whether the contextualized data is within an acceptable range for each respective scope of the industrial automation system . In one embodiment each scope of the industrial automation system may operate according to certain specifications. For example each scope may be expected to consume a particular range of energy within some period of time. In this example based on the contextualized energy data for each scope of the industrial automation system the industrial control system may determine whether the energy consumed by each respective scope falls within a respective acceptable range.

If at block the industrial control system determines that the contextualized data does fall within an acceptable range the industrial control system may return to block and continue monitoring the data received from the components . If however the industrial control system determines that the contextualized data does not fall within an acceptable range the industrial control system may proceed to block .

At block the industrial control system may send one or more commands to certain components that may be part of the respective scope of the industrial automation system that does not include contextualized data within an acceptable range. The commands may alter or adjust the operations of the respective component receiving the commands such that the contextualized data may fall within the acceptable range. As such in one embodiment the industrial control system may determine how the operations of each component in each scope of the industrial automation system should be adjusted to ensure that the contextualized data falls within the acceptable range. After determining how the operations of each component in each scope of the industrial automation system should be adjusted the industrial control system may send corresponding commands to the corresponding components to adjust their respective operations.

Keeping method in mind illustrates a flowchart of a method for adjusting operations of an industrial automation component after receiving a command from another control system. In one embodiment the method may correspond to the method above in that after the industrial control system sends commands to the components at block the method depicts how the components that receive the commands may adjust its operations.

As such at block the control system of the component may receive a command to adjust its operations. In one embodiment the command may simply indicate that the control system should adjust the operations of the component to make the contextualized data fall within an acceptable range.

At block the control system of the component may determine how its operations may be adjusted to make the contextualized data fall within an acceptable range based on the effectual relationship data. That is the control system may evaluate different adjustments to the operations of its respective component to determine how the adjusted operations may affect the corresponding contextualized data. After determining an adjustment to the operations of its respective component that may assist the contextualized data to fall within the acceptable range the control system of the component may at block adjust the operations of the component accordingly.

In one embodiment while determining an adjustment to the operations of its respective component that may assist the contextualized data to fall within the acceptable range the control system of the component may determine adjustments that may be made to other components based on the effectual relationship data that may further assist the contextualized data to fall within the acceptable range. As such at block the control system of the component may send commands to the other components to adjust their respective operations to assist the contextualized data to fall within the acceptable range.

Generally the methods discussed above include adjusting the operations of components that may be communicatively coupled to the industrial control system . As discussed above any component may include a respective industrial control system that may control the respective operations of the respective component . Further in some embodiments one industrial control system may control the operations of the components in one or more cells one or more areas and the like. As such the industrial control system may be configured to autonomously control the operations of a single component or a group of components . In certain embodiments the industrial control system may be designated to autonomously control one or more components in the industrial automation system with respect to a corresponding hierarchical level of the one or more components with respect to the industrial automation system . That is a user may specify a hierarchical level of the industrial automation system such that the industrial control system may autonomously control the respective operations of the respective components corresponding to the selected hierarchical level. As a result the industrial control system may be capable to provide different levels of autonomous control over the industrial automation system . In certain embodiments the industrial control system may also provide multiple levels of autonomous control over the industrial automation system . Further the industrial control system may provide control to just a portion of one or more hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system .

The industrial control system may be designated as an autonomous controller for some or all of the components that may be communicatively coupled to the industrial control system . That is the industrial control system may independently control some or all of the operations of certain components in spite of commands or control operations of another control system. For example the industrial control system may be communicatively coupled to a first component which may be operated by a first control system and to a second component which may be operated by a second control system. When the industrial control system is designated as the autonomous controller for the first component and the second component the industrial control system may control the operations of the first component and the second component in spite of any conflicting operational commands generated by the first control system or the second control system.

By autonomously controlling the operations of certain components in a particular hierarchical level of the industrial automation system the industrial control system may analyze data associated with the certain components with respect to various parameters associated with the particular hierarchical level that corresponds to the certain components . As a result the industrial control system may control the operations energy consumption production efficiency and other variables associated with the particular hierarchical level of the industrial automation system .

Keeping the foregoing in mind illustrates a flow chart of a method that the industrial control system may employ to autonomously control one or more components in the industrial automation system based on a corresponding hierarchical level of the industrial automation system . In certain embodiments the industrial control system may be communicatively coupled to a number of the components that may be disposed at various hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system .

At block the industrial control system may receive an input from a user that may specify one or more hierarchical levels in the industrial automation system . Referring briefly to the hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system may include a factory level a work area level a cell level or a component level . Moreover the selected hierarchical level may include one or more of the work areas one or more of the cells or one or more of the components . The industrial control system may receive the input indicating the selected hierarchical levels via the I O ports of the industrial control system . That is the user may specify to the industrial control system which hierarchical levels may be selected via input from a keyboard device a mouse device a touch screen device or the like. Additional details regarding how the user may select the hierarchical level that includes the components that the user may desire the industrial control system to autonomously control will be provided below with reference to .

At block the industrial control system may send a slave mode command to each control system of each component associated with the selected hierarchical level. Upon receiving the slave mode command the respective control system of the respective component may operate as a slave in a master slave communication configuration. That is the slave mode command may cause the respective control system to defer all or a portion of its control operations for the respective component to the industrial control system . Prior to receiving the slave mode command the respective control system for the respective component may control all of the operations of the respective component . In one embodiment after receiving slave mode command the respective control system may continue to control all of the operations of the respective component until the respective control system receives an operational command from the industrial control system . That is when the respective control system receives an operational command from the industrial control system that conflicts with a current operation of the respective component the respective control system may defer to the operational command of the industrial control system and allow the industrial control system to change the operation of the respective component according to the operational command.

In another embodiment after receiving the slave mode command the respective control system may defer all of the operations of the respective component to the industrial control system . As such the respective control system may forward the operational commands received from the industrial control system to the respective component . Alternatively the respective control system may serve as an intermediary or interface that may adjust the operations of the respective component based on the operational commands received from the industrial control system .

At block the industrial control system may receive data from each control system of each component in the selected hierarchical level. The data may include raw data acquired via one or more sensors disposed on the respective component . The sensors may include rotational sensors speed sensors weight sensors voltage sensors current sensors and the like.

The data may also include analyzed or interpreted data that may have been processed by a processor of the respective control system of the respective component . For example the respective control system may receive voltage and current data from sensors disposed on the respective component and may analyze the voltage and current data to determine power consumption properties associated with the respective component . In this manner the industrial control system may receive the analyzed data from the respective control system and thus may not analyze or interpret the raw data received from the sensors disposed on the respective component . As such the processing power of the industrial control system and each respective control system may be used efficiently.

At block the industrial control system may receive one or more industrial automation system parameters that may specify desired properties or characteristics regarding how the industrial automation system or various hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system may operate. In one embodiment the industrial automation system parameters may include a workflow associated with the industrial automation system . The workflow may indicate how each component of the industrial automation system may relate to various processes or hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system . Additionally the workflow may indicate how various hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system may relate to each other with respect to the industrial automation system . For example referring to the packaging factory of the workflow may provide details indicating that a component e.g. a motor operating the conveyor section is part of cell . Moreover the workflow associated with the packaging factory may also indicate that the operations of the packaging factory is as follows cell to cell to cell to cell to cell to cell . The workflow associated with the packaging factory may also specify which cells are part of each work area . The workflow may also indicate how the industrial automation system may be organized. For instance the workflow may indicate that the work area feeds into the work area .

At block the industrial control system may analyze the data received at block in view of the industrial automation system parameters received at block . As such the industrial control system may determine whether each component cell and work area may be operating according to the industrial automation system parameters. In one embodiment the industrial control system may aggregate all of the like data from each component in the selected hierarchical level. The industrial control system may then analyze the aggregated data for the selected hierarchical level with respect to the industrial automation system parameters. For example the industrial control system may aggregate all of the energy consumption data received from the respective components of the selected hierarchical level. The industrial control system may then compare the aggregated energy consumption data to an expected energy consumption value for the corresponding hierarchical level as specified by the industrial automation system parameters. The industrial control system may generate certain commands for the respective control systems of the respective components of the selected hierarchical level based on the comparison.

At block the industrial control system may send commands to the respective control systems associated with the respective components that correspond to the respective hierarchical level received at block to adjust their operations based on the analysis performed at block . That is if the received data associated with the components of the selected hierarchical level indicates that certain hierarchical levels in the industrial automation system are not operating according to the industrial automation system parameters the industrial control system may send commands to the respective control systems associated with the respective components of the selected hierarchical level to change its operations. The modified operations of the respective components may cause the hierarchical levels in the industrial automation system to operate according to the industrial automation system parameters.

In certain embodiments the industrial control system may determine the commands to provide to the respective control systems associated with the selected hierarchical level based on the workflow of the industrial automation system . By evaluating the workflow of the industrial automation system the industrial control system may become more aware or cognizant of how the components may affect the operations of the various hierarchical levels including the selected hierarchical level in the industrial automation system . As such the industrial control system may account for the effects to the industrial automation system when determining any command for any respective component of the selected hierarchical level. For instance if the industrial control system receives data indicating that a motor operating the filling and sealing station suddenly changes its operational speed to 50 of its previous operational speed the industrial control system may analyze the workflow of the packaging factory to determine which components and which hierarchical levels may be affected by the change of operation of the filling and sealing station . The industrial control system may then send commands to the control systems associated with the components in the selected hierarchical level to adjust their respective operations in light of the changed operating parameters of the filling and sealing station . If the selected hierarchical level received at block includes work area of the packaging factory the industrial control system may identify the components preceding the filling and sealing station e.g. the conveyor section washing station aligning conveyor section and send commands to the control systems that correspond to the identified components to change the respective operations of the identified components to accommodate or match the current operational speed of the filling and sealing station .

By autonomously controlling the operations of the components associated with a particular hierarchical level the industrial control system may enable the industrial automation system to be controlled more efficiently. In one embodiment different hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system may be controlled separately by a respective industrial control system . As such the industrial automation system may be controlled or operated according to a decentralized control manner. That is each autonomous control system may control its respective components of its respective hierarchical level without regard to the operations of other control systems. As such each respective control system may make distributed decisions for different hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system and how the respective decisions may affect the operations or various properties e.g. energy consumption production time efficiency etc. of the components of the corresponding hierarchical level.

Although the industrial automation system is described above as being controlled in a decentralized manner it should be noted that the selected hierarchical level for the industrial control system may include the entire factory . As such the industrial control system may provide for a centralized control system. That is the industrial control system may control the operation of each component in the factory . In certain embodiments even when the industrial control system operates as the central control system for all of the components in the industrial automation system the industrial automation system parameters received at block may include specifications or operating specifications for various hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system . Here the industrial control system may operate in a centralized manner and control the operations of each component of the industrial automation system to meet the industrial automation system parameters for the various hierarchical levels.

Whether the industrial control system operates in a centralized or decentralized manner in certain embodiments the industrial control system may not be able to accommodate or meet all of the industrial automation system parameters for the selected hierarchical level s of the industrial automation system . In this case the industrial control system may prioritize or determine a priority value for each of the industrial automation system parameters. In one embodiment the industrial control system may establish a priority for each industrial automation parameter based on the workflow that corresponds to the industrial automation system . That is the industrial control system may determine an importance of each hierarchical level or part of the industrial automation system and may determine which of the industrial automation system parameters to accommodate when the accommodation of two or more of the industrial automation system parameters is not possible. In certain embodiments the user may specify to the industrial control system the priority value of each of the industrial automation system parameters. Alternatively the user may provide a priority value for each hierarchical level of the industrial automation system . As such the industrial control system may determine which of the industrial automation system parameters to accommodate when the accommodation of two or more of the industrial automation system parameters is not possible based on the priority value provided by the user.

Referring back to block the industrial control system may receive the hierarchical level designated for autonomous control in a number of ways. In one embodiment the industrial control system may include a graphical user interface GUI that may depict certain visualizations that represent the hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system . For instance referring to the example industrial automation system depicted in the GUI may depict the packaging factory according to the hierarchical levels that correspond to the packaging plant as shown in .

Referring now to in one embodiment visualizations depicted in a GUI may include a graphical indication of a respective location of the industrial control system . For example as shown in the GUI may indicate that component may correspond to the location of the industrial control system by providing the graphical indication that resembles a star graphic in the block that is designated as component . Although the graphical indication is depicted in as a star graphic it should be noted that the graphical indication may be any type of graphical or visual effect that may enable the user to identify the part of the industrial automation system that may be directly coupled to the industrial control system .

In addition to the graphical indicator described above the GUI may also include a slider visualization . The slider visualization may provide the user with an ability to select a hierarchical level of the industrial automation system that the user may desire that the industrial control system may autonomously control. As such the slider visualization may provide selections for more granular hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system on one end of the slider visualization and may provide selections for broader hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system on another end of the slider visualization . For example as shown in one end of the slider visualization may correspond to a component level of the hierarchical levels and the other end may correspond to a factory level of the hierarchical levels. That is in one embodiment the most granular hierarchical level of the industrial automation system may correspond to a particular component in the industrial automation system while the broadest hierarchical level of the industrial automation system may correspond to the entire factory of the industrial automation system .

Keeping the foregoing in mind the slider visualization may include a selector that may be moved by the user in either direction of the slider visualization . In one embodiment the position of the selector along the slider visualization may indicate to the industrial control system a selection of a hierarchical level or a number of hierarchical levels that the user may designate as being autonomously controlled by the industrial control system . As shown in for example the selector is positioned at the component level end of the slider visualization . As such the GUI may provide a visual indication of the scope or hierarchical level that corresponds to what the industrial control system may autonomously control. In one embodiment the visual indication shown in may include a thick or highlighted border around the hierarchical level that corresponds to the location of the selector along the slider visualization . However it should be noted that other visualization effects may be applied to the hierarchical level that corresponds to the location of the selector along the slider visualization to indicate that the respective hierarchical level is selected. Referring again to in the visual indication indicates that the hierarchical level that the industrial control system may exert autonomous control over may include the component i.e. component which may correspond to the location of the industrial control system or the component that may be directly coupled to industrial control system .

In certain embodiments as the selector moves across the slider visualization the scope or hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system selected for autonomous control may change. For example illustrates the GUI as shown in however the selector depicted in is moved towards the opposite end of the slider visualization as compared to . As such the visual indication may highlight or encompass a larger scope of the industrial automation system as compared to . As shown in the selector may be positioned at a location along the slider visualization that corresponds to a cell level of the factory . As such the visual indication of encompasses cell and cell of the factory . If the selector moves toward the component level of the slider visualization the visual indication may encompass just cell . Moreover if the selector moves even closer toward the component level of the slider visualization the visual indication may encompass just two components e.g. components and or components and .

Referring now to if the selector moves toward the factory level of the slider visualization the visual indication may encompass cell cell and cell . As a result the visual indication may encompass area of the factory . In the same manner if the selector moves further toward the factory level of the slider visualization the visual indication may encompass area of the factory and one component e.g. component of area . As the selector continues to move toward the factory level the visual indication may encompass additional components cells and areas e.g. area until it encompasses the entire factory .

In addition to specifying various hierarchical levels that the industrial control system may exert autonomous control over the industrial control system may provide different control options or operational functions based on the user providing the input to the industrial control system . That is the industrial control system may provide different operating options to the user via the GUI based on certain credentials of the user. The credentials of the user may be determined based on a user identification or log in information provided to the industrial control system . In one embodiment the user credentials may indicate to the industrial control system the role of the user with respect to the industrial automation system . For example certain users may be part of an operational or maintenance team while other users may be part of a supervisory or management team. As such the industrial control system may provide the respective user different control options based on the corresponding role of the user.

For example illustrates a method for modifying control functions of the industrial control system based on a user s credentials. At block the industrial control system may receive user credentials associated with the user operating the industrial control system . In one embodiment the user credentials may be linked to a user identification number or log in information provided to the industrial control system .

At block the industrial control system may determine a list of hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system that the respective user may be approved to access or control. In certain embodiments lower level users e.g. maintenance operational personnel may be limited to using control functions that may control the operation of the component directly coupled to the industrial control system or the operation of lower granular hierarchical levels available. Alternatively higher level users e.g. supervisors managers may be provided access to additional control functions that may control the operation of the components that may be part of broader hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system . In this manner the higher level users may have greater control of the industrial automation system . At block the industrial control system may present the control functions available to the respective user determined at block .

Referring back to the method of in certain embodiments after receiving the hierarchical level designation at block the industrial control system may employ the method to ensure that the operations of various hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system are not modified by mistake or accident. That is since a considerable amount of control of the entire industrial automation system may be available via a single industrial control system the user credentials verification process provided by the method may help ensure that the proper personnel has access to various parts of the industrial automation system .

In addition to autonomously controlling different components in the industrial automation system and providing different levels of autonomous control options to user the industrial control system may also employ various load balancing protocols or algorithms to balance the computational processing loads between various control systems in the industrial automation system . That is as more sensors are added to the component or as the amount of data associated with each component cell work area factory and industrial automation system becomes available the processing demands associated with the industrial control system may also increase. As with any processor the processor of the industrial control system may include a limited amount of processing power e.g. 3.2 gigahertz processor .

In this manner to effectively control how the components of various hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system operate in real time or near real time the processor of the industrial control system may distribute its processing tasks to various control systems in the industrial automation system . In other words if the industrial controls system determines that it may not be capable to analyze the data associated with each component in a designated hierarchical level of the industrial automation system to adequately operate the various components in real time or near real time the industrial control system may send a request or command to other control systems in the industrial automation system to perform various calculations or data analysis processes to better enable the industrial control system to more effectively operate the components of the industrial automation system . As such in addition to being aware of the operations of each component the industrial control system may also be aware of the processing properties and capabilities of each control system in the industrial automation system such that the industrial control system may employ various processing load balancing techniques to ensure that processing power being used by each control component in the industrial automation system is being used efficiently.

Keeping the foregoing in mind illustrates a flowchart of a method for distributing processing workloads to various control systems in the industrial automation system . In one embodiment the method may be performed by the industrial control system that may be designated as an autonomous controller for various components in the industrial automation system . However it should be understood that any control system in the industrial automation system may employ the method to distribute its respective processing workload among other control systems.

For the purpose of facilitating the discussion related to the method depicts an example communication network that may correspond to the work area of . In one embodiment each component in the work area may include a respective control system that may include the communication component the processor the memory the storage and the I O ports as described above with reference to . As such each respective control system may include a processor that has certain processing capabilities. In addition to possessing certain processing capabilities each respective control system may include certain processing or data analysis tools which may be stored in the memory or the storage . The processing or data analysis tools may be designed to perform specific tasks or data analysis operations to interpret data acquired by sensors disposed on the component and the like.

As shown in the industrial control system may correspond to the control system associated with the component of . However it should be noted that industrial control system may be associated with any component in the industrial automation system or may be a stand alone computing device as depicted in . In one embodiment the industrial control system depicted in may be directly communicatively coupled to control system control system control system and control system i.e. directly coupled control systems which may correspond to the control systems for the component the component the component and the component of respectively. Each of the directly coupled control systems may establish a direct communication link via a wired or a wireless connection such that communication between the directly coupled control system and the industrial control system may not include any intermediary systems or components.

Additionally although the industrial control system may not be directly coupled to all of the control systems of the work area the industrial control system may establish an indirect communication link with other control systems via the directly coupled control systems . As such the industrial control system may communicate with indirectly coupled control systems via the directly coupled control systems . That is the directly coupled control system may relay requests commands and data between the industrial control system and the indirectly coupled control systems . In this way the industrial control system may further control the operations of the components that may not be directly communicatively coupled to the industrial control system . Moreover by establishing a communication means between the industrial control system and the indirectly coupled control systems the industrial control system may further distribute the processing work load of the industrial control system to the directly coupled control systems and the indirectly coupled control systems .

Keeping the communication network of in mind and referring back to the method of at block the industrial control system may send a request to each control system in a particular hierarchical level. The request may be a request to provide processing information related to each respective control system. In one embodiment the industrial control system may send the request to each directly coupled control system via the direct communication link between the industrial automation system and the directly coupled control systems .

If the selected hierarchical level includes other indirectly coupled control systems upon receiving the request from the industrial control system the directly coupled control systems may forward the request to the control systems directly communicatively coupled to the directly coupled control systems . For example control system and control system which are directly coupled control systems with respect to the industrial control system may forward a request received from the industrial control system to the control system control system control system and the control system of . As such the industrial control system may send a request for processing information to the indirectly coupled control systems .

The processing information may include various details or properties regarding the communication component the processor the memory and the storage of each respective control system. For instance the processing information may include a list of capabilities of the respective control system such as a bandwidth of the communication component a processing speed of the processor an amount of memory available in the memory a list of programs and or data processing tools that may be stored in the storage and the like. The processing information may also include some indication detailing how much of the processing power of the processor of the respective control system is being used. In one embodiment the processing information may provide a percentage value to represent how much of the total processing power of the processor of the respective control system is being used to perform the various processes of the respective control system. The percentage value may thus correspond to a processing load of the processor .

At block the industrial control system may receive the processing information from each respective control system. Upon receiving the processing information at block the industrial control system may determine whether the processing load between each respective control system in the selected hierarchical level is balanced. In one embodiment the industrial control system may determine whether the processing load of each respective control system is within some percentage or range e.g. 5 10 of an average processing load of all of the control systems including the processing load of the industrial control system in the selected hierarchical level.

If at block the industrial control system determines that the processing loads between each of the respective control systems of the selected hierarchical level is balanced the industrial control system may return to block and continue to receive the processing information from each respective control system. If however at block the industrial control system determines that the processing loads between each of the respective control systems of the selected hierarchical level is not balanced the industrial control system may proceed to block .

At block the industrial control system may distribute the processing loads of each respective control system based on the received processing information. That is the industrial control system may first identify certain control systems that may be have a processing load that is lower than the average processing load between the respective control systems. The industrial control system may then identify certain processing operations being performed by other control systems that may have processing loads that may be higher than the average processing load and may distribute some of the processing operations of the control systems having the above average processing load to the control systems having the below average processing load.

In certain embodiments at block the control system may send recommendations to each respective control system indicating how the processing loads of each respective control system may be distributed. In this manner the user of the control system may provide an input to proceed adjusting the processing loads of each respective control system as opposed to the processing loads being automatically adjusted.

After distributing some of the processing load between control systems at block the industrial control system may return to block and receive updated processing information from each respective control system. As such the industrial control system may again determine whether the processing load between each respective control system is balanced at block and may further distribute the processing loads between each control system at block .

In certain embodiments the industrial control system may distribute the processing loads between the control systems based on various properties associated with each control system. For example certain control systems may include specific data analysis tools while other control systems may not. As such when distributing processing loads between the control systems the industrial control system may identify a control system that has the data analysis tools stored thereon before requesting that a particular control system performs the respective processing operations.

Additionally to better achieve processing load balancing between the control systems of the selected hierarchical level the industrial control system may determine which of its processing operations may be more efficiently performed by other control systems. For example if the industrial control system calculates the power consumption properties of each cell the industrial control system may receive power consumption data from each control system in each cell and may then aggregate the power consumption data with respect to each cell . In one embodiment instead of performing the aggregation calculations using the processor of the industrial control system the industrial control system may send a command to one control system in each cell to determine the power consumption data for the respective cell . Each respective control system designated to determine the power consumption data for the respective cell may then send the aggregated power consumption data for the respective cell to the industrial control system . For example referring to the industrial control system may send a command to the control system to determine the power consumption data for the corresponding cell cell . As such the control system may receive power consumption data from the control system and the control system and aggregate the received power consumption data with the power consumption data that the control system has attributed to its respective component i.e. component . As a result the control system may determine the power consumption data for the cell and may send the power consumption data to the industrial control system thereby preserving some of the processing power of the industrial control system that previously would have been used to aggregate the received data from each control system in cell .

In one embodiment the industrial control system may preserve its processing power for various decision making processes regarding the control of various operations of the components in various hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system . As such the industrial control system may identify different control systems in the industrial automation system that may be capable of performing various intermediate processing tasks that may result in data that may determine how the components should operate.

In yet another embodiment the industrial control system may distribute the processing loads between control systems by designating one or more control systems of a particular hierarchical level as responsible for performing various calculations and data analysis associated with the components of the particular hierarchical level. That is one or more control systems that are part of a particular hierarchical level may perform all of the data analysis operations for the components of the particular hierarchical level. The one or more control systems may then forward the results of the data analysis operations to the industrial control system such that the industrial control system may operate the industrial automation system in view of the data analysis results.

In addition to monitoring the balance of the processing loads in real time the industrial control system may predict whether the processing loads of the control systems being monitored may become unbalanced. Keeping this in mind illustrates a flowchart of a method for balancing processing workloads of control systems in the industrial automation system of based on predicted workloads for the control systems.

At block the industrial control system may receive processing information from each control system i.e. directly coupled and indirectly coupled as described above with reference to block of . In one embodiment the industrial control system may identify the processing load of a corresponding control system from the processing information.

At block the industrial control system may store the processing information or the processing load of each respective control system in the memory or the storage . In one embodiment the industrial control system may store the processing load of each respective control system in a look up table that may be indexed according to a time at which the processing information was received.

After storing the processing information the industrial control system may wait for some amount of time to expire. The amount of time that the industrial control system may wait may correspond to an input received from a user. As such the user may specify to the industrial control system a frequency at which the industrial control system may evaluate the processing information received from the respective control systems. After the amount of time expires at block the industrial control system may again start receiving the processing information from the respective control systems.

At block the industrial control system may compare the processing information stored at block to the processing information received at block . In one embodiment if a change between the processing load stored at block and the processing load received at block is not greater than the threshold the industrial control system may return to block and store the recently received processing information or the processing load. If however the change between the processing load stored at block and the processing load received at block is greater than some threshold the industrial control system may proceed to block . At block the industrial control system may distribute the processing workloads between the respective control systems as described above with reference to block of .

The method illustrates one example in which the industrial control system may predict whether the processing work loads between the control systems of some hierarchical level of the industrial automation system may become unbalanced in the future. That is if the change in the processing load determined at block exceeds the threshold the industrial control system may determine that the processing load between the respective control systems may become unbalanced at some time in the future. As such the industrial control system may preemptively distribute the processing work loads between the respective control systems before the processing work loads become unbalanced.

In certain embodiments the industrial control system may also predict whether the processing work loads may become unbalanced by evaluating data processing operations of each respective control system or the industrial control system over some amount of time. That is the user may specify to the industrial control system an amount of time to analyze the processing load of one or more control systems in the industrial automation system . The industrial control system may then evaluate or monitor the processing load of the respective control system which could include the processing load of the industrial control system itself. If the industrial control system determines that the processing load of the respective control system over the amount of time is greater than some threshold the industrial control system may distribute the processing work loads between various control systems as described above. Here the threshold may be represented as a load over time curve.

In addition to balancing processing loads between various control systems the industrial control system may also dynamically balance power loads between areas cells and the like. For example illustrates a flow chart of a method for power balancing operations of the industrial automation system . Power balancing the operations of the industrial automation system may generally include monitoring the power consumption properties associated with various hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system and adjusting the operations of various components to ensure that the power consumption loads between each hierarchical level of the industrial automation system may be balanced. The method is described below as being performed by the industrial control system but it should be understood that any control system or multiple control systems may employ the method .

At block the industrial control system may receive power consumption data associated with each hierarchical level of the industrial automation system . In one embodiment the industrial control system may receive an input from a user that specifies one or more hierarchical levels in the industrial automation system . In this case the industrial control system may receive the power consumption data associated with the selected hierarchical level. In certain embodiments the industrial control system may receive the power consumption data from a particular control system designated to determine the power consumption data for a respective hierarchical level as mentioned above. Alternatively the industrial control system may receive the raw power consumption data from each control system in each hierarchical level and calculate the power consumption data associated with each hierarchical level.

After receiving the power consumption data of each hierarchical level or the selected hierarchical levels at block the industrial control system may determine whether the power load of each hierarchical level is balanced. Determining that the power load of each hierarchical level is balanced may include determining that the power consumed in certain hierarchical levels or areas within one or more hierarchical levels are below a certain threshold for each hierarchical level. That is the industrial control system may determine whether the power load of each respective hierarchical level is within some percentage or range e.g. 5 10 of a respective power load threshold associated with each hierarchical level.

In one embodiment the power consumption data may include information related to an amount of energy consumed by one or more components in the component level cell level area level or factory level of the hierarchical levels. The information related to the amount of energy consumed by the components may include data related to the amount of energy consumed when the respective components are powered off operating at reduced energy levels e.g. sleep mode and powered back on again. In addition to the power consumption data the industrial control system may also receive historical data associated with an expected amount of idle time for each respective component . Upon receiving the power consumption data and the historical idle time data the control system determine an amount of energy consumed by the respective components when powering down during the expected idle times operating in a reduced power mode during the expected idle times and the like.

The power consumption data may also include information related to how the change in power modes of certain components may affect the power consumption or demand in other components . As such the control system may recognize that changes to the power operations on one component may imply that there will be a new demand in another component .

Keeping the forgoing in mind the control system may also receive an objective for power management that may include reducing overall energy power consumption of a particular hierarchical level in the industrial automation system or more reducing a cost of energy used to produce products. To reduce the cost of energy used to produce products or operate the industrial automation system or various hierarchical levels in the industrial automation system the control system may as described below analyze historical data associated with the power consumed by the components that correspond to the data received by the control system operating relationships between the respective components relationships to functions being performed by the industrial automation system and the components related to those functions an energy cost schedule and the like. Based on the analysis of this data the control system may determine operations and or adjust operations of various components to meet the power management object.

By way of example the control system may received data related to discovered energy relationships between components a schedule of energy costs a forward looking production schedule and a known relationships between components involved in the production schedule. The control system may then identify certain times at which different operations for different components should be performed to minimize total energy cost while also meeting the production schedule. That is the control system may receive an energy cost schedule that indicates a price for energy at various times during the day week year etc. The control system may then perform operations for components that use significant energy at times when energy costs are lower than peak demand times.

If the power consumption data indicates that the power between various parts of one or more hierarchical levels is balanced operating under a respective threshold or is efficiently consuming energy the industrial control system may return to block . If however the power consumption data indicates that the power between various parts of one or more hierarchical levels is unbalanced operating over a respective threshold or is not efficiently consuming energy the industrial control system may proceed to block .

At block the industrial control system may send commands to certain components or to control systems that correspond to the certain components to alter or adjust its operations. The adjusted operations may cause the components to adjust their operations such that the power balance between each part of a respective hierarchical level may remain balanced or operating under a respective threshold. For example the industrial control system may determine that the power drawn from a particular area is above a certain threshold. If one particular cell e.g. cell of an area is drawing more power than another cell e.g. cell in the same area the industrial control system may adjust the operations of the components in cell to consume less power to reduce the overall power drawn from the area . In one embodiment any changes to the operations of the components may be made after the industrial control system determines whether the changes would enable the industrial automation system to continue operating as per certain system design parameters any specified operating parameters or the like.

As such the commands sent to the components may include minimizing an amount of power used over some section of equipment within a respective hierarchical level i.e. to stay within some overall threshold . As such the industrial control system may defer or slow down certain operations of certain components to keep the respective hierarchical level at some threshold associated with the respective hierarchical level or to keep the overall industrial automation system under some threshold associated with the overall industrial automation system .

After sending the commands to the components the industrial control system may return to block . As such the industrial control system may continuously monitor the power balancing properties of the industrial automation system .

As mentioned above the industrial control system may use a number of control systems in the industrial automation system to perform various data processing tasks. Keeping this in mind with the increased amount of data that may be collected from the industrial automation system the control systems may collectively process the voluminous amount of collected data to identify patterns in the data that may indicate certain characteristics or prognostics related to the industrial automation system . That is the control systems may evaluate the collected data to determine different manners in which various components in the industrial automation system may be operated to improve efficiency or effectiveness of the items being produced or manufactured via the industrial automation system . In certain embodiments the control systems present in the industrial control system may not include sufficient processing power and or storage capabilities to process all of the collected data from the industrial automation system in addition to analyzing data collected from various other industrial automation systems. Moreover the data collected from the industrial automation system may be so large and complex that the control systems of the industrial automation system may not be capable of processing all of the data using their collective processors or data processing applications. As such in one embodiment the industrial control system may be part of a data analysis system as illustrated in .

Referring now to the data analysis system may include a local industrial control system which may be associated with a local factory the database one or more servers a cloud computing device and the like. In certain embodiments the servers may include a computer or a collection of computers that may perform various processing or data analysis operations.

The cloud computing device may include a number of computers that may be connected through a real time communication network such as the Internet EtherNet IP ControlNet or the like. In one embodiment large scale analysis operations may be distributed over the computers that make up the cloud computing device . Generally the computers or computing devices provided by the cloud computing device may be dedicated to performing various types of complex and time consuming analysis that may include analyzing a large amount of data. As a result the industrial control system or other controllers that may be associated with managing the operations of a respective component cell or area may continue its respective processing operations without performing additional processing or analysis operations that may involve analyzing large amounts of data collected from various industrial control systems.

The large amount of data collected from various control systems associated with various industrial automation systems may commonly be referred to as big data. With the increased availability of big data due to the communication abilities of control systems the big data may be analyzed or used as a reference to identify similar patterns of data between two or more industrial automation systems. By identifying similar patterns between two or more industrial automation systems the cloud computing device the servers or the industrial control system may diagnose certain problems in a respective industrial automation system predict when problems may arise in the respective automation system determine how operations may be adjusted in the respective automation system and the like.

Keeping the foregoing in mind the local industrial control system the servers and the cloud computing device may communicate with each other as shown in . For the purpose of discussion the following description of the operations and tasks capable of being performed by the local industrial control system the servers and the cloud computing device will be discussed as being performed by the cloud computing device . However it should be understood that the local industrial control system or a number of industrial control systems or the servers may also be used to perform the operations discussed below.

As mentioned above the cloud computing device may be communicatively coupled to the local industrial control system and the database via the industrial automation network discussed above. In this manner the local industrial control system may send raw data it acquires via sensors communicatively coupled to the local industrial control system to the cloud computing device . In certain embodiments the local industrial control system may perform certain analysis on the raw data. In this case the local industrial control system may also send the results of these analyses to the cloud computing device . As such the cloud computing device may receive any type of data that may be received by or processed by the local industrial control system .

The cloud computing device may also receive data from other industrial control systems disposed in the local factory . Additionally the cloud computing device may receive data from other industrial control systems that may be disposed in different factories . In certain embodiments the different factories may not be related to each other. That is each factory may be owned and operated by separate entities and may manufacture or produce similar or different products. Moreover each factory may be part of the same or different industries. Nevertheless the data received by the cloud computing device from each industrial control system in each factory may include data related to similar components or a group of components e.g. cell or area operating together in a similar manner. As such the cloud computing device may analyze the data from each industrial control system and identify patterns within the data that may indicate how components from two or more different factories may be operating under similar load or operating conditions.

In addition to receiving data from various industrial control systems the cloud computing system may also receive data related to the operations of various components or group of components from the database . For example as shown in the database may include data associated with different factories . In certain embodiments the data may also include data from other industrial control systems in the same local factory as the local industrial control system . It should be noted that the database may also include hierarchy information effectual data information workflow information and other types of data discussed throughout the present disclosure.

The data may also include empirical data provided by various manufacturers and the like. The empirical data may include historical data associated with the operations of the components by each respective manufacturer over time. As such the database may include data related to different industries and associated with different periods of time e.g. days weeks years .

Keeping the foregoing in mind illustrates a method that the cloud computing device may employ for controlling operations of the components of the local factory based on big data acquired by the cloud computing device . As mentioned above although the following description of the method is described as being performed by the cloud computing device it should be noted that the server the local industrial control system or a group of industrial control systems may perform the method described below.

Referring now to at block the cloud computing device may receive a first set of data associated with the local components of the local factory . The first set of data may include raw data and or processed data associated with the local components of the local factory . In one embodiment the first set of data may be received from one or more local industrial control systems that may be associated or communicatively coupled to the local components of the local factory .

At block the cloud computing device may receive a second set of data associated with other components of one or more other factories . That is the second set of data may include data similar to the local components of the local factory even though the other components may be operating in different factories . After receiving the second set of data in one embodiment the cloud computing device may review configuration data for other components to identify components in the second set of data that are configured i.e. arranged and used similar to the local components . The cloud computing device may then analyze and or compare the operational and configuration data between those similar components to determine various operational adjustments for the local components .

Keeping this in mind the components of any factory may generally work together to perform various operations related to production or processing within the factory . For example an electric drive component may be used to control a motor component in a number of different factories which may be producing or manufacturing different products. Although each different factory may produce a different product some of the components of each factory may perform similar functions.

Referring back to the example presented above an electric drive component in a first factory may control a speed of a motor component based on various operational parameters related to producing a first type of product in the first factory . Although a second factory may produce a second type of product the second factory may use a similar electric drive component and a similar motor component as used in the first factory . However the electric drive component and the motor component used in the first factory may operate differently as compared to the electric drive component and the motor component used in the second factory . For instance the electric drive component used in the first factory may operate the respective motor component at a first speed while the electric drive component of the second factory may operate the respective motor component at a second speed. Even though the electric drive component from each different factory may operate the respective motor component at different respective speeds the data representative of the operating characteristics of each electric drive component and motor component is valuable for determining how to efficiently operate each respective component diagnosing problems in each respective component maintaining each respective component and the like.

Referring back to block in certain embodiments the cloud computing device may receive the second set of data via the database the servers or the like. As mentioned above the second set of data may include data from different factories as compared to the local factory that corresponds to the first set of data. The second set of data may include information regarding the operating parameters of the components the power consumption of the components the operating load of the components the maintenance history of the components and the like.

Although it has been noted that the second set of data may include data from different factories as compared to the local factory that corresponds to the first set of data it should be noted that the second set of data may also include data from the same local factory that corresponds to the first set of data. That is the second set of data may include empirical or historical data related to the operations of the components in the respective factory over some amount of time e.g. weeks months years .

Keeping the foregoing in mind at block the cloud computing device may analyze the first set of data in view of the information related to other components of the second set of data. As such the cloud computing device may compare the first and second sets of data to identify patterns of similar data between the two datasets. For instance the similar patterns of data may include similar operating parameters of the components from the local components as compared to the other components similar power consumption characteristics between the local components and the other components similar maintenance operations performed on the local components and the other components and the like. In one embodiment after receiving data associated with similar components as compared to the local components for some amount of time e.g. one month the cloud computing device may determine various ways in which the production of the local factory or the operations of the local components may be optimized based on trends or other analysis determined based on the data acquired over time.

Further instead of analyzing the first and second sets of data the cloud computing device may analyze just the second set of data. By analyzing just the second set of data the cloud computing device may still identify patterns in the second set of data. The cloud computing device may use the identified patterns in the second set of data to predict how the local components may perform when operating under similar circumstances as the identified patterns.

In any case upon identifying patterns in the first and or second sets of data at block the cloud computing device may perform various types of analyses on the first set of data based on the identified patterns. That is the cloud computing device may analyze the first set of data with respect to the identified patterns to determine additional details with regard to the operations or efficiency of the components of the local factory .

In one example upon analyzing the first set of data with respect to the identified patterns the cloud computing device may determine certain expected values for various operating parameters of certain components . For instance after analyzing temperature data for various components operating under different conditions e.g. loads environments etc. the cloud computing device may determine an expected temperature value for the local component operating under its current condition. Moreover the cloud computing device may determine an expected temperature value for the local component when the local component is operated at different conditions. That is an operator may adjust the operations of the local component and may use the expected temperature value at the adjusted operation conditions as determined by the cloud computing device to verify that the local component is operating correctly. As such by analyzing the similar data patterns associated with other components the cloud computing device may determine effective operating parameters for the local components even though the local components may not have been operated in the same manner in the past. In this manner the additional analysis determined using the big data associated with the components may provide better insight and understandings as to how to increase the efficiency or the effectiveness of the production of the local factory .

Additional examples of the types of analyses that may be performed at block are presented in a flow diagram of . Referring briefly to at block the cloud computing device may compare energy consumption data e.g. first set of data associated with the local components monitored or operated by the local industrial control system with energy consumption data e.g. second set of data associated with other components in different factories as discussed above. The energy consumption data may include information related to amounts of power being consumed by each local component and each other component while operating under various load conditions operating parameters or the like.

At block the cloud computing device may compare productivity data between the first set of data and the second set of data. The productivity data may include a number of units produced by the respective factory a speed at which certain components may operate or the like. At block the cloud computing device may compare maintenance data between the first and second sets of data. The maintenance data may include a list of various maintenance operations that may have been performed on the respective component . In one embodiment the cloud computing device may cross reference the identified patterns in the first and second sets of data with the maintenance records for each component associated with the identified pattern. In certain cases some patterns of data may commonly be associated with a specific maintenance event. For instance if a pattern of increased energy consumption is identified in the second set of data and is followed by a maintenance event such as replacing some part within a respective component the cloud computing device may provide a recommendation to replace the same part of the local component when the energy consumption data of the local component exhibits a similar energy consumption pattern.

In addition to or in lieu of comparing the first set of data and the second set of data at block the cloud computing device may derive or predict the behavior of a component that may not be related to the data being analyzed. For example the cloud computing device may receive a first set of data related to the temperature of a component operating in a particular cell . Using the first set of data related to temperature the cloud computing device may derive or determine a characteristic of the respective component other than temperature. By way of example the cloud computing device may determine power characteristics of the respective component based on the temperature data. In another example the cloud computing device may use power data to infer data related to production. As such the cloud computing device may use one type of data to infer different types of data related to the respective component the respective cell the respective area the respective factory and the like.

Alternatively the cloud computing device may use one type of data to infer different types of data related to a different component a different cell a different area a different factory and the like. For example the cloud computing device may receive power data related to a first component . Using the power data for the first component the cloud computing device may derive or infer temperature data for a second component which may be coupled to or affected by the operations of the first component . In this manner the cloud computing device may use one type of data associated with one component to determine another type of data associated with another component . In one embodiment the cloud computing device may determine how the two components may relate with each other based on the effectual relationship between the two components the hierarchical levels in which the two components operate and the like.

Keeping the foregoing in mind and referring back to at block the cloud computing device may determine operation adjustments for the local components in the local factory based on the analyses performed at block . The cloud computing device may then at block send one or more commands to the local industrial control system to adjust the operations of the local components communicatively coupled to the local control system to operate more efficiently produce more effectively conserve energy or the like. For instance if the cloud computing device identifies a pattern of data in other components that was subsequently followed by implementing an operational change to the other components the cloud computing device may send commands to the local industrial control system to make the same operational changes to the similar local components . In this way the cloud computing device may assume that the operator of the local industrial control system may wish to make the same operational changes as indicated by the pattern of data.

However it should be noted that in other embodiments the cloud computing device at block may instead send a recommendation to the local industrial control system e.g. via GUI indicating suggested operational changes. The recommendation may also include a data report that details the identified patterns associated with the other components and the subsequent operational changes implemented with the other components . Additionally the report may include analysis that may interpret the identified patterns as alarm conditions that may be used to determine how the corresponding components may be maintained. In certain embodiments the report may also indicate the results or effects of making the operational change. For example the operational changes may lead to a decrease in energy consumption thereby operating more efficiently with respect to the energy available to the components .

In addition to sending the recommendations and or reports to the local industrial control system the cloud computing device may also send information related to the identified patterns to a remote monitoring service technicians associated with the local industrial automation system technical support staff that may be capable of interpreting the identified patterns expert troubleshooters consultants associated with the local industrial control system and the like. In this manner the appropriate personnel may receive data related to the operations of the local industrial automation system immediately.

In one embodiment the cloud computing device may observe that another industrial control system may be operating similar components under similar conditions as the local components . The other industrial control system may be located at a different geographical location as the local industrial control system but may be owned and operated by or associated with the same entity. As such each of these industrial control systems may be producing the same product even though they may be operating each respective component slightly differently. In this case the cloud computing device may analyze other data associated with the respective components with respect to various hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system . The cloud computing device may then determine whether some of the components or some of the hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system may be operating more efficiently. The cloud computing device may then make operational adjustments or recommendations to the local industrial control system based on the analysis between two similarly operating factories.

In addition to analyzing data related to similar components owned and operated by or associated with the same entity the data may include data associated with sub industrial automation systems located within the local factory within the same enterprise of the user within the same industry of the user in any other industry and the like. Here the cloud computing device may send recommendations to the local industrial control system based on a portion of the data that includes information related to components being operated using similar operating parameters as the local components .

In another embodiment the cloud computing device may analyze the first and second sets of data to perform various types of prognostic analysis that may indicate whether certain maintenance procedures or quality checks should be performed on a local component based on the operational history and the maintenance history of the local industrial control system . That is the information collected via the second set of data may include information indicating the history of maintenances performed on various components in the other factories . In this manner the cloud computing device may analyze whether the local components were operated under similar circumstances as compared to other components and determine when a local component disposed in the local factory may be serviced or replaced based on the history of usage and maintenance of a similar component used in other factories .

In yet another embodiment at block the cloud computing device may send commands to the local industrial control system to take actions to prevent various sections or the local components of the local factory from going offline. That is the cloud computing device may analyze the first and or second sets of data and determine whether the local industrial automation system or the local factory may be at risk of stopping production due to certain problems or potential problems in a particular section or component s of the local factory . For example if the cloud computing device determines that a particular section of the local factory or one of the local components may experience a fault or failure based on the similar patterns of data identified from other components the cloud computing device may send commands to the local industrial control system to alter the operations of the certain section or components of the local factory that may feed the problematic section to decrease the load on the problematic section and help prevent the fault or failure from occurring.

The cloud computing device may also analyze the first and second sets of data with respect to various hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system as discussed above with respect to . As such the cloud computing device may alter the operations of local components in a particular scope section or hierarchical level of the industrial automation system based on the first and second sets of data collected regarding various hierarchical levels of the local industrial automation system and various hierarchical levels of other industrial automation systems. For example the control system may receive data regarding the power equipment in the local factory as well as data regarding the power equipment in other factories . Here the cloud computing device may make decisions affecting the power equipment in the local factory based on the data regarding the power equipment in the other factories .

In certain embodiments the cloud computing device may evaluate the first and second sets of data regarding the power equipment with respect to various hierarchical levels in each respective industrial automation system . As such the cloud computing device may make decisions affecting various hierarchical levels of the local factory based on the data regarding the power equipment operating in other factories with respect to the operations of the power equipment in various hierarchical levels of the factory . In the same manner the cloud computing device may also evaluate the collected data with respect to a lower hierarchical level such that the operations of the components in the lower hierarchical level may be adjusted according to various data analysis results regarding the power equipment data. As such the cloud computing device may make various types of decisions that affect various hierarchical levels of the local industrial automation system .

When performing the various types of analyses at block the cloud computing device may determine which hierarchical level of the industrial automation system to analyze the received data based on various network factors. For instance the availability of data pertaining to more aspects of the industrial automation system may also be used as a factor for determining the appropriate hierarchical level to analyze the first and second sets of data. For instance if network latency capacity and utilization capabilities associated with the cloud computing device and the collected data are low the cloud computing device may analyze the first and second sets of data with respect to higher and lower hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system . However if for example the latency increases or becomes high the cloud computing device may refrain from analyzing the available data associated with higher hierarchical levels since the processing time to analyze such data may not be effective to make real or near real time operational adjustments. As such the cloud computing device may analyze the first and second sets of data with respect to lower hierarchical levels and thus use data acquired from the components or cells when making its determinations.

As industrial control system the servers or the cloud computing device acquires data from various parts of the industrial automation system it is increasingly apparent that the industrial control system the servers or the cloud computing device may have access to a voluminous amount of data without an efficient manner in which to organize or sort through the data. That is since each industrial automation component may provide data with respect to the cell the area the factory and the like the control system or any other data processing component e.g. servers cloud computing device may have difficulties sorting through all of the available data for analysis monitoring and the like. As such given the sheer volume of data that may be collected from the awareness enabled industrial automation control system it may be beneficial to incorporate a protocol or classification system that may assist the control system to identify and or classify the data that it may have acquired more effectively. After the control system classifies or categorizes the acquired data it may be beneficial for the control system or any other data processing component to broadcast the data along with the respective categorization to a data feed in which other industrial automation components may be able to track and review.

Keeping the foregoing in mind illustrates a flow chart of a method for broadcasting data and data tags in the industrial automation system . As mentioned above each industrial control component may receive data from various sources within the industrial automation system . In addition to data from different sources the received data may be contextualized with respect to the various hierarchical levels discussed above e.g. component level cell level area level factory level etc. . In this manner the data acquired by the control component may be characterized in a number of different ways. For instance the data may be characterized according to the type e.g. energy communications connectivity processing power etc. of data it may be the device e.g. industrial automation component that may have sent the data the hierarchical level that corresponds to the data and the like. Keeping this in mind the method provides a manner in which the data received by a respective control component may broadcast messages or notifications in a message feed or data feed channel such that other control components may observe or become aware of the data received by the respective control component .

Referring now to the description of the method presented below will be discussed as being performed by the control component . However it should be noted that the method and techniques presented herein may be performed by any data processing component such as the servers and the cloud computing device .

By way of example at block the control component may receive data from one or more industrial automation components . As discussed above the data may be associated with a particular component a group of components a hierarchical level or the like. In one embodiment the associations related to the data may be stored within the metadata of the respective data. That is the metadata may include information that indicates how the various relationships or associations may pertain to the respective data.

Keeping this in mind at block the control component may determine whether the data is associated with an existing data tag or data categorization. The data tag may define an association or a data category that may correspond to the respective data. In certain embodiments the data tags may be pre defined by users of the industrial automation components defined by an application programmer e.g. application programmer defined tags of an industrial control system automatically generated by the control system e.g. system defined tags and the like. That is in some instances a user may specify that a particular type of data may be categorized with a particular data tag. The data tag specification may be stored in the metadata of the respective data and thus may be part of the respective data as the respective data is transmitted and stored. In some embodiments the metadata of the respective data may track the industrial automation components that the respective data may have been stored. That is the metadata may store a history of the components in which it may have been previous stored on or transferred to.

In one embodiment the control system may add a tag or information to metadata of the collected data that may be used to assist the control system in categorizing the collected data into one or more searchable categories. The categorization of the collected data may enable the control system to identify additional data that may be relevant to a certain set of data being analyzed by the control system.

If the data is associated with or has an existing data tag stored in its respective metadata the control component may proceed to block and broadcast or display the data along with the data tag in a data feed channel. The data feed channel may be implemented using an application programming interface API such as the Representational State Transfer REST architecture which is a collection of network design principles that define resources and ways to address and access data. As such the data feed channel may interface with and may be accessed by various web syndication formats like Really Simple Syndication RSS and Atom Syndication Format Atom .

The data feed channel may include a family of standard web e.g. Internet based feed formats that may publish information that may be updated multiple times. As such the data feed channel may be a Rich Site Summary RSS document e.g. feed web feed or channel that may be depicted on a display of the control component or may be accessible by other components or other control systems . The RSS document may include information related to the data and the data tag mentioned above including full or summarized text publishing date publisher s component identification number and the like. In certain embodiments the RSS document may include a standard Extensible Markup Language XML file format that ensures compatibility with many different machines programs. As such by using the RSS document the control system may syndicate data automatically such that other components or control systems may be automatically updated of a status pertaining to the respective component or respective control system publishing the respective data.

Keeping the foregoing in mind in one embodiment the data feed channel may be associated with certain levels within the hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system . For example the data feed channel may be associated with a particular component cell area factory or the like of the hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system . In this case the data data tags and other information may be published in a respective data feed channel that corresponds with the data data tags or other information. In certain embodiments different control systems components or users may then subscribe or request access to a respective data feed channel and may thus be aware of all of the data data tags etc. that may be related to the respective hierarchical level of the industrial automation system . Although the data feed channel has been described with respect to a particular component cell area factory or the like of the hierarchical levels of the industrial automation system it should be noted that the data feed channel may correspond to a particular industry. As such all of the data data tags etc. associated with the particular industry may be published on one data feed channel associated with the particular industry. Moreover various control systems may subscribe to one or more data feed channels associated with one or more respective component cell area factory industry or the like. In one embodiment when the data feed channel is associated with a particular component cell area factory or industry the data feed channel may be managed and or operated by the cloud computing device . As such the cloud computing device may perform the method described above. However it should be noted that the techniques described herein may be performed by a control system the servers or the like.

In addition to the data and the data tag the entries may include a date and or time at which the data was published identification information related to the control system or component that published the data a hierarchical level associated with the publisher a physical location of the publisher and the like. In certain embodiments the entries may be presented such that the most recently published data may be atop of the data feed channel. However the entries may also be presented such that the most recently published data may be on the bottom of the data feed channel depending on the preference of the subscriber the respective control system the user of the respective control system or the like. Further a subscriber of the data feed channel may scroll or search through all of the entries of the data feed channel to locate older entries.

Referring now back to block if the data received by the control system is not associated with a data tag the control system may proceed to block . At block the control system may send a request to another control system the servers the cloud computing device or the like to identify a data tag that may be associated with the received data. In certain embodiments the other device may query a database or its local data and identify data that may be similar to the data received by the respective control system at block . Upon locating the similar data the other device may determine whether the similar data includes a data tag within its metadata that may define the type of data. If the other device determines a data tag that may be associated with the data received at block the other device may send the determined data tag to the respective control system . As such at block if the control system receives the data tag for the respective data the control system may proceed to block and broadcast or publish the data along with the corresponding data tag. If however at block the control system does not receive the data tag the control system may return to block and continue receiving data from various industrial automation components .

In certain embodiments the control system may publish the data using a normalized unit that may have been specified by a user of the control system an application programmer of the control system or the like. When various control systems receive data from other data feed channels the respective control system may convert the data to a unit as specified by the respective user programmer or the like.

In addition to or in lieu of sending the request for a data tag to other devices in one embodiment the control system may review various data feed channels that the respective control system may subscribe to and identify a data tag that may be associated with the data received at block . That is the respective control system may search the data feeds that may be available to the respective control system and identify published data that may be similar to the data received at block . Upon locating these entries in the data feed channel the respective control system may identify the data tags used to characterize the published data. The respective control system may then use the identified data tags to broadcast the received data at block .

At block the particular control system may verify whether the requesting control system is authorized to access the respective data feed channel. That is the particular control system may include a list of components or other control systems that may be authorized to have access to the respective data feed channel. In this case if the requesting control system is not listed as an authorized entity the particular control system may deny the request to allow the other control system to subscribe to the respective data feed channel.

At block the particular control system may provide the requesting control system access to the respective data feed channel. As such the remote control system may monitor the data and data tags published by the particular control system . In certain embodiments instead of a data feed channel the particular control system may send electronic mail messages text messages e.g. Short Message Service SMS or other electronic forms of communication e.g. updating an RSS document to the remote control system to inform the remote control system of the data and data tags received by the particular control system .

In certain embodiments each control system may operate a respective data feed channel. In this case when a respective control system provides a requesting control system access to the respective data feed channel the respective control system that may publish the information of the respective data feed channel in the data feed channel of the requesting control system . In this manner the requesting control system may monitor the data feed channels of a number of control systems that provided the requesting control system access to their respective data feed channels. As a result the requesting control system may monitor or be aware of the data associated with a number of other control systems .

By publishing data and data tags received by the particular control system and by providing other control systems with access to the data feed channel of the particular control system the particular control system may enable itself and other control systems to sort through data more efficiently. For example any control system having access to the data feed channel may sort through the published data using a method shown in .

At block the control system may search each specified data feed channel for data tags and generate a list of entries published by the respective data feed channel having the same data tag. In one embodiment the data tag may be denoted by a special character or symbol thereby enabling the control system to locate the data tags more efficiently.

Upon identifying the data having the similar data tags the control system may display the identified data at block . In one embodiment the identified data may be displayed in groups according to the respective data tag. It should be noted that the respective data feed channel being queried may not change its presentation at this time. Instead a new data feed channel or visualization having the identified data may be presented. As such each respective data feed channel being queried may continue to broadcast or publish data in real time.

Keeping the foregoing in mind the control system the servers the cloud computing devices or the like may use the data and data tags published in the data channel feeds to control the operations of the industrial automation system . In certain embodiments the control system the servers the cloud computing devices or the like identify patterns in the published data as per the method described above in .

In the same manner illustrates a flow chart of a method for analyzing data that may be broadcast or published in the data feed channel. In certain embodiments the method may occur after the method has been performed. Keeping this in mind and referring to at block the control system may receive data identified in one or more data feed channels having similar data tags.

At block the control system may analyze the data received at block . In certain embodiments the data may be analyzed using various techniques described herein. For example the received data may be analyzed to identify patterns which may then be used to predict the behavior of the components the cells the areas the factories and the like associated with the received data. In one embodiment the data may be analyzed or compared to a threshold. In certain embodiments the data analyzed at block may include data from various different data channels. That is the data may include data from all of the control systems that the respective control system may be subscribed to.

Additionally the control system may analyze the data by cross referencing entries of the respective data feed channel or along with other data feed channels with historical data associated with a number of other industrial automation components. The control system may also determine whether various relationships exist between the entries. Using these types of analyses the control system may predict or determine an expected behavior of various components in the respective industrial automation system .

At block the control system may send a recommendation to one of the control systems in the industrial automation system based on the analysis. That is the control system may send a recommendation to alter the operations of an industrial automation component that corresponds to the respective control system based on the predicted behavior the threshold and the like.

While only certain features of the invention have been illustrated and described herein many modifications and changes will occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.

