---

title: Systems and methods of distribution of live streaming video feeds to and from video callers during a video collaboration session
abstract: The technology disclosed further relates to distribution of live streaming sources during a video collaboration session. In particular, it relates to receiving or placing an outside call from or to at least one remote limited participant to be joined with an ongoing video collaboration session on a display wall that combines multiple live streaming sources, locating a template that identifies at least one live streaming source selected from the ongoing video collaboration session to transmit to the remote limited participant, and causing a copy of the selected live streaming source to be directed to the remote limited participant upon connection to the ongoing video collaboration session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654732&OS=09654732&RS=09654732
owner: INFOCUS CORPORATION
number: 09654732
owner_city: Portland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140811
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 465 534 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS OF INCORPORATING LIVE STREAMING SOURCES INTO A VIDEO CONFERENCE filed contemporaneously. The related application is incorporated by reference for all purposes.

 CONCURRENT DECOMPRESSION OF MULTIPLE VIDEO STREAMS WITH CONSTRAINED DECOMPRESSION RESOURCES U.S. Prov. application Ser. No. 13 828 619 filed 14 Mar. 2013.

The technology disclosed generally relates to video collaboration systems and in particular implementations to distributing broadcasts of live video feeds to and from video callers during video collaboration sessions.

The subject matter discussed in this section should not be assumed to be prior art merely as a result of its mention in this section. Similarly a problem mentioned in this section or associated with the subject matter provided as background should not be assumed to have been previously recognized in the prior art. The subject matter in this section merely represents different approaches which in and of themselves may also correspond to implementations of the claimed technology.

Video collaboration systems provide an interactive environment for users at different locations to discuss problems and work collaboratively. During a video collaborative session local and remote participants participate in varying levels at varying times and multiple working groups. Therefore it becomes imperative to provide the broadest possible access during a video collaboration session so that relevant video information can be simultaneously manipulated responsive to respective needs and situations of the different local and remote participants.

Moreover the digital video revolution has led to rampant use of video enabled devices such as desktop and laptop clients smartphones and tablet computers. In addition to voice calls video enabled devices provide the ability to make and receive video calls from and to anyone anywhere at any time. In the course of conducting a video collaborative session using a video call from a video enabled device the video enabled device transmits and receives video information to and from other parties in the video collaborative session.

However existing video collaborative systems are very restricted with regards to video clients with interoperation with mainstream video calling devices yet to be introduced in the video collaboration realm. Therefore an opportunity arises to provide systems and methods that enable efficient and effective distribution of live video feeds to and from video callers during a video collaboration session. Improved user experience and engagement and higher customer satisfaction and retention may result.

The technology disclosed further relates to distribution of live streaming sources during a video collaboration session. In particular it relates to receiving an outside video call from at least one remote limited participant to be joined with an ongoing video collaboration session that combines multiple live streaming sources locating a template that identifies whether and where the live video stream from the remote limited participant will be presented within the video collaboration session and which if any live streaming sources selected from the ongoing video collaboration session to transmit to the remote limited participant and causing a copy of the selected live streaming sources to be directed to the remote limited participant upon connection to the ongoing video collaboration session.

The technology disclosed also relates to initiating an outbound video call to at least one remote limited participant to be joined with an ongoing video collaboration session on a display wall that combines multiple live streaming sources locating a template that identifies whether and where the live video stream from the remote limited participant will be presented within the video collaboration session and which if any live streaming sources selected from the ongoing video collaboration session to transmit to the remote limited participant and causing a copy of the selected live streaming sources to be directed to the remote limited participant upon connection to the ongoing video collaboration session in response to the outbound call.

Other aspects and advantages of the technology disclosed can be seen on review of the drawings the detailed description and the claims which follow.

Many devices such as laptops desktops smartphones and tablet computers can act as video calling endpoints. However although video collaboration systems support a variety of video sources including video upload and download from and to these systems desktop laptop or mobile clients these systems are historically closed systems allowing no access from standard video telephony devices.

Furthermore existing video collaboration products such as Jupiter System s Canvas allow the users to participate in collaborative sessions involving display walls with many video stream screens. In these collaborative sessions the users can access multiple live video streams using a personal computer PC or mobile client. The technology disclosed enhances the video collaboration system by allowing users to participate in a video collaboration session through a standard video call such that live streaming sources can directed from a video collaboration session to remote participants and from the remote participants to the video collaboration session using standard video calling technology.

Therefore the technology disclosed solves the technical problem of allowing video callers to participate in a video collaboration environment by allowing live video from a video telephone call initiated by a remote video caller to be used as a video source in the video collaboration environment and also allowing live video from the video collaboration environment to be made available to the remote caller.

According to one implementation this is achieved by creating a gateway that on one side acts to video callers like a collection of video telephony endpoints and on the other side simultaneously provides the video streams from the callers to the video collaboration environment and fetches video streams from the video collaboration environment to present as the other end of the video calls.

 Live streaming sources of a video collaboration session provide real time video monitoring of a region of interest according to one implementation. Some other implementations include the live streaming sources of a video collaboration session being information sources that broadcast unidirectional live video feeds.

 Remote limited participants of a video collaboration session are users that do not have complete access to the different live streaming sources used in the video collaboration session. For example in a display wall based video collaboration session such as one hosted by Jupiter System s Canvas product remote users do not have full access to the live video feeds broadcasted across the different display screens of the display wall unless they are using the system s native client. The technology disclosed allows remote users with video enabled devices capable of making or receiving video calls to have limited access to these video feeds and also allows video feeds from these users to be viewed within the video collaboration environment. In this example such remote users may have a limited perspective on what is transmitted by the live streaming sources because they are not trusted users of the video collaboration system but rather any old man in the street . Thus the technology disclosed can be applied to distribute video feeds from the live streaming sources to and upload video from the video enabled devices of the different remote users i.e. remote limited participants.

The technology disclosed further relates to distribution of live streaming sources during a video collaboration session. In particular it relates to receiving an outside video call from at least one remote limited participant to be joined with an ongoing video collaboration session that combines multiple live streaming sources locating a template that identifies whether and where the live video stream from the remote limited participant will be presented within the video collaboration session and which if any live streaming sources selected from the ongoing video collaboration session to transmit to the remote limited participant and causing a copy of the selected live streaming sources to be directed to the remote limited participant upon connection to the ongoing video collaboration session.

The technology disclosed also relates to initiating an outbound video call to at least one remote limited participant to be joined with an ongoing video collaboration session on a display wall that combines multiple live streaming sources locating a template that identifies whether and where the live video stream from the remote limited participant will be presented within the video collaboration session and which if any live streaming sources selected from the ongoing video collaboration session to transmit to the remote limited participant and causing a copy of the selected live streaming sources to be directed to the remote limited participant upon connection to the ongoing video collaboration session in response to the outbound call.

The technology disclosed further includes designating a particular live streaming source for immediate broadcast to the remote limited participant by dragging an interface object representing the outside call from the remote limited participant and dropping the interface object on an interface window used to stream the live streaming source.

According to one implementation disseminating particular live streaming sources to specific remote participants of a video collaboration session can aid in the rapid resolution of on field issues. Therefore the technology disclosed can be applied in numerous different scenarios including emergency responses for which dispatch centers have access to fixed cameras in the areas associated with the emergencies via a video collaboration product like Canvas. In this example the dispatch centers can use the technology disclosed to receive live video of the emergency sites from people at the emergency sites i.e. boots on the ground. In one implementation the live video from the emergency sites can be displayed as part of a video collaboration session between members at the dispatch center and experts reached via video call at remote locations not the emergency sites who can assist in resolving the emergencies.

In another example the technology disclosed can be used for training purposes. For instance a company can utilize the technology disclosed to offer a training course that requires remote trainees to view multiple live video feeds of an on field procedure. In one implementation a video call can be made to the trainees to join a video collaboration session that displays the multiple live video feeds. As a result the trainees can access the live video feeds from their respective video enabled devices. In another implementation the trainees can use their video enabled devices to call and join the video collaboration session hosting the multiple live video feeds.

In yet another example the technology disclosed can be used by parents to remotely monitor their children at day care facilities. For instance a parent can make a video call to a day care facility equipped with cameras and a video collaboration product. Further the facility s operator can find the appropriate camera view showing the parent s child and share the specific view with the caller parent.

The technology disclosed relates to distributing broadcasts of live video feeds during video collaboration sessions by using computer implemented systems. The technology disclosed can be implemented in the context of any computer implemented system including an on demand database system a multi tenant environment or the like. Moreover this technology can be implemented using two or more separate and distinct computer implemented systems that cooperate and communicate with one another. This technology can be implemented in numerous ways including as a process a method an apparatus a system a device a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium that stores computer readable instructions or computer program code or as a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code embodied therein.

The technology disclosed allows users to incorporate live streaming sources from video callers into a video collaboration session and allows video callers to access live streaming sources within video collaboration sessions. Examples of systems apparatus and methods according to the disclosed implementations are described in a video collaboration context. The examples of video collaboration are being provided solely to add context and aid in the understanding of the disclosed implementations. In other instances examples of live video feed distribution in other contexts like video conferences video calls video chats etc. may be used. Other applications are possible such that the following examples should not be taken as definitive or limiting either in scope context or setting. It will thus be apparent to one skilled in the art that implementations may be practiced in or outside the video collaboration context.

As used herein a given signal event or value is responsive to a predecessor signal event or value of the predecessor signal event or value influenced by the given signal event or value. If there is an intervening processing element step or time period the given signal event or value can still be responsive to the predecessor signal event or value. If the intervening processing element or step combines more than one signal event or value the signal output of the processing element or step is considered responsive to each of the signal event or value inputs. If the given signal event or value is the same as the predecessor signal event or value this is merely a degenerate case in which the given signal event or value is still considered to be responsive to the predecessor signal event or value. Responsiveness or dependency or basis of a given signal event or value upon another signal event or value is defined similarly.

As used herein the identification of an item of information does not necessarily require the direct specification of that item of information. Information can be identified in a field by simply referring to the actual information through one or more layers of indirection or by identifying one or more items of different information which are together sufficient to determine the actual item of information. In addition the term specify is used herein to mean the same as identify. 

Network s is any network or combination of networks of devices that communicate with one another. For example network s can be any one or any combination of a LAN local area network WAN wide area network telephone network Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN Session Initiation Protocol SIP 3G 4G LTE wireless network point to point network star network token ring network hub network WiMAX WiFi peer to peer connections like Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC Z Wave ZigBee or other appropriate configuration of data networks including the Internet. In other implementations other networks can be used such as an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a non TCP IP based network any LAN or WAN or the like.

Servers can be of varying types including a workstation server computing cluster blade server server farm or any other data processing system or computing device. In some implementations each server can be communicably coupled to user computing devices and cameras via a different network connection. For example video telephony gateway can be coupled via the network s e.g. the Internet security server can be coupled via a direct network link and visual collaboration server can be coupled by yet a different network connection.

User computing devices can be desktop personal computers laptop computers tablet computers smartphones personal digital assistants PDA digital image capture devices cell phones or any wireless access protocol WAP enabled devices or any other computing devices capable of interfacing directly or indirectly to the Internet or other network connection. User computing devices can run an HTTP client e.g. a browsing program such as Microsoft s Internet Explorer browser Mozilla s Firefox browser Opera s browser Google s Chrome or a WAP enabled browser in the case of a cell phone PDA or other wireless device or the like allowing a participant of a video collaboration to access process and view information pages and applications available to it from environment over network s .

User computing devices also include one or more user interface devices such as a keyboard a mouse trackball touch pad touch screen pen or the like for interacting with a video collaboration interface in conjunction with pages forms applications and other information provided by environment or other systems or servers. For example the user interface device can be used to schedule conferences perform selections access data and applications hosted by environment and to perform searches on stored data and otherwise allow a video collaboration participant to interact with various video interface pages.

When conducting a video collaboration session cameras can serve as live streaming sources such that live video feed i.e. both audio and image information from the cameras can be used as the image or video source for the video collaboration session. In some implementations cameras can be any type of cameras including cameras sensitive across the visible spectrum or more typically with enhanced sensitivity to a confined wavelength band e.g. the infrared IR or ultraviolet bands more generally the term camera herein refers to any device or combination of devices capable of capturing an image of an object and representing that image in the form of digital data. For instance cameras can be surveillance cameras or private cameras mounted on a structure such as a building or utility pole. In another example cameras can be embedded in user computing devices described above or can be peripheral devices capable of streaming video.

In some implementations user computing devices and cameras can communicate with the different servers and processors using TCP IP Transfer Control Protocol and Internet Protocol network and at a higher network level use other common Internet protocols to communicate such as HTTP FTP AFS WAP etc.

In an example where HTTP is used devices and cameras can include an HTTP client for sending and receiving HTTP messages to and from an HTTP server in environment . Such an HTTP server can be implemented as the sole network interface between the different servers and processors and network s but other techniques can be used as well or instead. In some implementations the interface between the different servers and processors and network s includes load sharing functionality such as round robin HTTP request distributors to balance loads and distribute incoming HTTP requests evenly over a plurality of servers.

Environment also implements a display wall controlled by a display wall processor such as Jupiter Systems Fusion Catalyst. Display wall advances end to end collaboration between participants of a video collaboration such that remote limited participants can share streams from live streaming sources cameras broadcasted on the display wall both as sources and as destinations.

In one implementation packet switching technology can be used to show any information source on the display wall such as a single window spanning multiple screens in the display wall or as separate windows individually presented across different screens in the display wall . In one implementation display wall processor supports client software applications as well as provides related data code forms webpages and other information to and from user computing devices and cameras 

Video telephony gateway plays the role of routing during the video collaboration sessions hosted by the video collaboration environment . Video telephone gateway parses a received request to identify the source and destination of the request. Once identified the request is transmitted to the destination with an indication of the source for evaluation by the recipient. In some implementations it ensures that a request is sent to the requested destination i.e. participant live streaming source and or remote limited participant. In other implementations it receives inbound calls from remote participants of a video collaboration and forwards them as queries to the security server and or visual collaboration server for further processing.

According to one implementation video telephony gateway includes a SIP Signaling Interface SSI that supports different video calls including SIP to SIP SIP to H.323 SIP to SCCP SIP intercluster trunk H.323 trunk or combination of SIP and H.323 trunk. In some implementations video telephony gateway includes RTP Real Time Transport Protocol which defines a standard packet format of delivering audio and video over the network between the participants live streaming sources and or remote limited participants.

Yet other implementations include the video telephony gateway serving as a SIP registrar that receives registration of remote participants of a video collaboration prior to initiation of video calls. In other implementations it applies call routing policies that define sequence of events during a video collaboration and or authentication and authorization of participants to services hosted by the video collaboration. In yet other implementations it registers as one or more SIP endpoints to an external SIP registrar allowing calls to be initiated from and to the video telephony gateway. In another implementation it supports inbound and outbound calls through a SIP trunk interface.

Visual Collaboration server configures and controls the streaming of video sources and arrangement of video collaboration interfaces during the video collaboration sessions organized using the video collaboration environment . In one implementation visual collaboration server directs live streaming sources to one or more remote limited participants of a video collaboration session. In another implementation visual collaboration server stores templates used by the video telephony gateway to determine whether the live video stream from the remote limited participant will be presented within any video collaboration sessions and which if any live streaming sources selected from any ongoing video collaboration sessions to transmit to the remote limited participant. In yet another implementation visual collaboration server generates for display interface elements such as scrolls bars for navigating a video collaboration interface drag and drop functions for accepting or terminating video calls and or arranging and manipulating live stream windows within a video collaboration interface.

Security server ensures minimum security risk during the video collaboration sessions conducted by the video collaboration environment . In one implementation security server executes a Network Authentication Process NAP that gathers user credentials such as usernames and passwords from all participants of a video collaboration session and forwards them to an LDAP Lightweight Directory Access Protocol server requesting additional authentication values such as role realm domain or context for the participants. Once the access information is extracted from the LDAP module it is parsed by the NAP to identify specific values needed. The parsed value is then used when passing the participant credential s to an authentication module which either grants or rejects participation of the participants in the video collaboration session. In one implementation authentication information from video calls processed by video telephony gateway is parsed by the NAP to identify the calling party as a full not limited participant within the visual collaboration system and to allow the calling party access to live video streams within the visual collaboration sessions.

Some implementations include the authentication module allowing remote limited participants restricted access to the video collaboration session by authorizing viewing of live streams from only a subset of live streaming sources of the video collaboration. In such an implementation video feeds from restricted live streaming sources of the video collaboration session are blanked out for the unauthorized remote limited participants of the video collaboration session.

In some implementations the telephony address of the video collaboration session can be a SIP Session Initiation Protocol address like sip collaborationsession company.com. In some implementations which if any live video stream is transmitted to the remote participants and whether the live video stream from the remote participants becomes part of the video collaboration session can be controlled by information previously associated with the visual collaboration session. In some implementations this information can be stored in the form of a template in memory or on disk by the video collaboration server. In some implementations which if any live video stream is transmitted to a remote participant and whether the live video stream from the remote participant becomes part of the video collaboration session can be specified based on both the called address and other information associated with the telephony call such as the calling party ID of the limited remote participant. In other implementations the telephony address called by the remote limited participant can belong to a specific destination video source such as a SIP address like sip collaborationsession camera1 company.com or sip collaborationsession company.com video camera2. In yet other implementations a destination telephony address can allow a remote participant to directly view live transmission from the destination source like cameras and without participating in a video collaboration session by using a SIP address such as sip camera1 company.com .

In other implementations video feed from the remote participants and is incorporated in the video collaboration session as depicted in by windows labelled Alice company.com Bob company.com and Carol company.com. Thus a two way collaborative exchange of upstream and downstream video feeds is established for these remote limited participants and other full participants in the visual collaboration session can view the live video streams from both of these remote limited participants. In yet other implementations only a one way upstream link is established in which video feed only from a remote participant like participant is streamed into the video collaboration session without any transmission of video feeds from the live streaming cameras and downstream to the remote participant.

In yet other implementations which live video stream from a visual collaboration session is transmitted to remote participants and whether the live video stream from remote participants becomes part of the video collaboration session can be controlled dynamically by full participants of the video collaboration session. In some implementations this dynamic control can be a drag and drop function such that dragging and dropping an image representing the remote participant onto a window of live video feed of a live streaming camera results in immediate transmission of the live video feed to the remote participants. In some implementations this dynamic control can be limited to certain participants based on permissions associated with a role defined for the participant. In other implementations this dynamic control can override which live video stream is being transmitted to the remote participant and whether the live video stream from the remote participant is part of the video collaboration session for example as determined when the call is completed by mechanisms as described above.

Regarding the SIP address SIP is a signaling protocol used to control communication sessions over Internet Protocol IP . SIP is an application layer protocol and can be run on any transport layer including Transmission Control Protocol TCP User Datagram Protocol UDP or Stream Control Transmission Protocol SCTP . SIP is also text based protocol and can run with transfer protocols such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP . SIP can be used to create modify or terminate two party unicast or multiparty multicast sessions.

In one implementation a participation request message from video telephony callers can be mediated by the video telephony gateway . In some implementations the participation request message can include a SIP request such as a SIP INVITE message or some other SIP request like SIP REFER message. The SIP based participation request message can be either sent from video telephony callers to the video telephony gateway an inbound call or from the video telephony gateway to video telephony callers an outbound call via the network thus establishing a call between the video telephony gateway and video telephony callers . In some implementations the SIP based participation request message can transmit at least one of a SIP URI URL or E.164 number that a video telephony gateway is reachable at SIP URI URL or E.164 number of the remote limited participant or an authentication challenge for the called party. Once the SIP based participation request message is accepted by the called party an end to end bearer communication path is established between the video telephony gateway and the remote limited participant.

In one example when the remote limited participants using a SIP phone in communication with a network the identity of the caller such as the caller s SIP URI URL or E.164 is included in the SIP from header. The video telephony gateway returns a SIP ringing response and in turn triggers a message to the video collaboration server to determine how to handle the incoming call. Upon receiving the response from the video collaboration server the video telephony gateway establishes a communication path between the remote limited participant and the appropriate live video streams within the video collaboration session. In other implementations a SIP application programming interface API can be used to access different SIP services during a video collaboration session including web browsers instant messages and teleconferences.

At exchange an administrator of a video collaboration system provisions the video collaboration session with a visual collaboration server . In one implementation provisioning includes specifying different parameters of a video interface template to be used in the video collaboration session including at least one of listing or pre registering the live streaming sources participants and remote limited participants identifying positions and sizes of video feed windows of the live streaming sources participants and remote limited participants assigning one or more live streaming sources to one or more participants and remote limited participants for automatic and immediate transmission upon connection.

At exchange video telephony gateway receives an inbound call request from a video telephony caller . In one implementation the inbound call includes specific information such as a SIP to address identifying a specific video collaboration session and or live video source along with identification credentials of the caller .

At exchange video telephony gateway parses the inbound call request and extracts the specific information described above and uses the specific information to issue a query to the visual collaboration server . The visual collaboration server evaluates responsiveness of the specific information encapsulated in the query against the different parameters defined by the administrator during provisioning at exchange .

In one example the evaluation includes comparing the credentials of the video telephony caller against the participants and remote participants listed by the administrator at exchange . Another example includes checking if the pre registered video sources match the ones used to initiate the call to the video telephony gateway .

At exchange visual collaboration server generates a response to the query issued by the video telephony gateway and either adds or rejects the video telephony caller to or from the video collaboration session. In one example adding the caller to the video collaboration session is done by sending a SIP OK message to the caller with SDP information for the video stream to be transmitted to the caller.

At exchange live video feed from the video telephony caller is transmitted to the video telephony gateway for incorporation in the video collaboration session.

In addition to allowing video calls to be made into a visual collaboration session the video telephony gateway can allow participants within the visual collaboration session to initiate outbound video calls to include other participants and remote participants with video telephony capabilities in the collaboration session.

At exchange an administrator of a video collaborative session provisions the video collaborative session with a visual collaboration server . In one implementation provisioning includes specifying different parameters of a video interface template used to be used in the video collaboration session including at least one of listing or pre registering the live streaming sources participants and remote limited participants identifying positions and sizes of video feed windows of the live streaming sources participants and remote limited participants assigning one or more live streaming sources to one more participants and remote limited participants for automatic and immediate transmission upon connection.

At exchange video telephony gateway receives an outbound call request from a device of participant in a video collaboration session directed at a video telephony caller . In one implementation the outbound call includes specific information such as session identifier ID and or video source identifier ID window within the video collaboration session in which to display the live video from the called party along with telephony address of the called party like alice company.com. 

At exchange video telephony gateway parses the outbound call request and extracts the specific information described above and uses the specific information to issue a query to the visual collaboration server . The visual collaboration server evaluates responsiveness of the specific information encapsulated in the query against the different parameters defined by the administrator during provisioning at exchange .

In one example the evaluation includes comparing the address of the called party against the participants and remote participants listed by the administrator at exchange . Another example includes checking if the called party has permission to view the pre registered video sources that will be transmitted when the call is established to the called party .

At exchange visual collaboration server generates a response to the query issued by the video telephony gateway and either adds or rejects the video telephony caller to or from the video collaboration session.

At exchange video telephony gateway initiates the outbound call request to the video telephony endpoint . In one implementation the outbound call is initiated with a SIP INVITE message including the from and to SIP URIs and an initial SDP offer for a live video stream from the video collaboration session that will be transmitted to the called party when the call is established.

At exchange an OK message is sent by the video telephony caller which includes the SDP information of the video stream to be transmitted to the video telephony gateway at exchange .

At exchange live video feed from the video telephony caller is transmitted to the video telephony gateway for incorporation in the video collaboration session.

At action an outside call is received from at least one remote limited participant to be joined with an ongoing video collaboration session that combines multiple live streaming sources. In one implementation a menu of live streaming sources is provided for selection by the remote limited participant.

At action a template that identifies at least one live streaming source selected from the ongoing video collaboration session to transmit to the remote limited participant is located. In one implementation the template associated with the session controls the display position of the remote limited participant s live streaming source in the ongoing video collaboration session. In another implementation a particular live streaming source is designated for immediate broadcast to the remote limited participant by dragging an interface object representing the outside call from the remote limited participant and dropping the interface object on an interface window used to stream the particular live streaming source.

In one implementation at least one live streaming source is based on a telephony address specified by remote limited participant to connect to the ongoing video collaboration session. In another implementation the identification of at least one live streaming source is based on user identification ID of the remote limited participant. In yet another implementation the identification of at least one live streaming source is based on a device format of remote limited participant s device.

At action a copy of the selected live streaming source is directed to the remote limited participant upon connection to the ongoing video collaboration session. In other implementations a copy of the live streaming source is directed to a group of remote limited participants upon connection of the remote limited participants to the ongoing video collaboration session. In yet other implementations a copy of remote limited participant s live streaming source is directed to the ongoing video collaboration session upon connection of the remote limited participant to the ongoing video collaboration session at action .

This method and other implementations of the technology disclosed can include one or more of the following features and or features described in connection with additional methods disclosed. Other implementations can include a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions executable by a processor to perform any of the methods described above. Yet another implementation can include a system including memory and one or more processors operable to execute instructions stored in the memory to perform any of the methods described above.

At action an outbound call is initiated to at least one remote limited participant to be joined with an ongoing video collaboration session that combines multiple live streaming sources. In one implementation a menu of live streaming sources is provided for selection by the remote limited participant.

At action a template that identifies at least one live streaming source selected from the ongoing video collaboration session to transmit to the remote limited participant is located. In one implementation that the template controls the display position of the remote limited participant s live streaming source in the ongoing video collaboration session. In another implementation a particular live streaming source is designated for immediate broadcast to the remote limited participant by dragging an interface object representing the outside call from the remote limited participant and dropping the interface object on an interface window used to stream the particular live streaming source.

In one implementation at least one live streaming source is based on a telephony address specified by remote limited participant to connect to the ongoing video collaboration session. In another implementation the identification of at least one live streaming source is based on user identification ID of the remote limited participant. In yet another implementation the identification of at least one live streaming source is based on a device format of remote limited participant s device.

At action a copy of the selected live streaming source is directed to the remote limited participant upon connection to the ongoing video collaboration session in response to the outbound call. In other implementations a copy of the live streaming source is directed to a group of remote limited participants upon connection of the remote limited participants to the ongoing video collaboration session. In yet other implementations a copy of remote limited participant s live streaming source is directed to the ongoing video collaboration session upon connection of the remote limited participant to the ongoing video collaboration session at action .

This method and other implementations of the technology disclosed can include one or more of the following features and or features described in connection with additional methods disclosed. Other implementations can include a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions executable by a processor to perform any of the methods described above. Yet another implementation can include a system including memory and one or more processors operable to execute instructions stored in the memory to perform any of the methods described above.

User interface input devices can include a keyboard pointing devices such as a mouse trackball touchpad or graphics tablet a scanner a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems and microphones and other types of input devices. In general use of the term input device is intended to include all possible types of devices and ways to input information into computer system .

User interface output devices can include a display subsystem a printer a fax machine or non visual displays such as audio output devices. The display subsystem can include a cathode ray tube CRT a flat panel device such as a liquid crystal display LCD a projection device or some other mechanism for creating a visible image. The display subsystem can also provide a non visual display such as audio output devices. In general use of the term output device is intended to include all possible types of devices and ways to output information from computer system to the user or to another machine or computer system.

Storage subsystem stores programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of some or all of the modules and methods described herein. These software modules are generally executed by processor alone or in combination with other processors.

Memory used in the storage subsystem can include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM for storage of instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. A file storage subsystem can provide persistent storage for program and data files and can include a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive along with associated removable media a CD ROM drive an optical drive or removable media cartridges. The modules implementing the functionality of certain implementations can be stored by file storage subsystem in the storage subsystem or in other machines accessible by the processor.

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism for letting the various components and subsystems of computer system communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative implementations of the bus subsystem can use multiple busses.

Computer system can be of varying types including a workstation server computing cluster blade server server farm or any other data processing system or computing device. Due to the ever changing nature of computers and networks the description of computer system depicted in is intended only as one example. Many other configurations of computer system are possible having more or fewer components than the computer system depicted in .

The terms and expressions employed herein are used as terms and expressions of description and not of limitation and there is no intention in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof. In addition having described certain implementations of the technology disclosed it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other implementations incorporating the concepts disclosed herein can be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the technology disclosed. Accordingly the described implementations are to be considered in all respects as only illustrative and not restrictive.

