---

title: Efficient group message delivery method for A2P and M2M
abstract: An access platform of a service provider storing at least one group identifier and a list of subscriber numbers of subscriber devices associated with the at least one group ID. The access platform receives a group ID and a message from a customer application running on a customer device. The access platform then compares the received group ID to the at least one group ID stored, and in response to the received group ID matching the at least one stored group ID utilizes the list of subscriber numbers associated with the received group ID to deliver the received message to the subscriber devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09264865&OS=09264865&RS=09264865
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 09264865
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140407
---
In recent years mobile wireless communications have become increasingly popular. Initial implementations of mobile wireless communications for example in the form of cellular telephone networks supported circuit switched voice communication services. Mobile voice telephone communication is now ubiquitous in many countries and mobile services are replacing fixed landline service even for traditional voice telephone calls. However for many years now the mobile service offerings have extended far beyond the traditional voice telephone call model. For example the mobile carriers developed short messaging service SMS technology to provide text and or email communications via the wireless communication networks. As the public wireless communication networks have evolved to provide greater bandwidth and packet based services the industry has developed a variety of data services such as web browsing as well as a variety of services using multimedia messaging service MMS technology. Many of the messaging services such as SMS and MMS support message traffic between mobile stations e.g. for message exchange between users. However these popular messaging services also support traffic between mobile stations and server equipment from which service providers offer users a variety of different types of application services. With the increased data communication capability of the network and the associated increased intelligence of the mobile devices mobile messaging has extended to include instant messaging and email services. These messaging services support communications of messages between mobile devices as well as two way communications between mobile devices and applications running on network connected computer platforms such as servers running appropriate applications.

For most message traffic the communication is point to point e.g. from one mobile device to another mobile device even if an intermediate server computer provides a store and forward function in support of message delivery. Companies and other organizations however may have the need to multicast i.e. sequentially transmit a message to multiple recipients a message to a group of mobile devices in various situations. The multicast may be directed to many mobile devices that are listed in a group distribution list. For example a bank may send a security alert or update to their account holders. The security alert may be sent in a multicast fashion to each individual mobile device. This multicast transmission is a sequential transmission from the server to each mobile device specified in the group as opposed a unicast transmission where the data would be transmitted from the server directly to a single specified mobile device. As another example a school system may need to notify teachers other employees and parents of a school system closing due to inclement weather.

However in current multicast methods the message may only be delivered to a short list of mobile devices since the multicast is performed by the sending enterprise itself. This limitation on the number of mobile devices is primarily due to hardware software limitations in the systems of the sending enterprise. The bank in this example would have to send a message in a sequential manner to each individual mobile device thereby consuming valuable resources and a large amount of time in delivering the messages. Furthermore the bank would have to receive on an individual basis a status message from each of the mobile devices indicating whether the mobile device has received a message or not.

The conventional solution to performing multicast messaging to a large number of mobile devices is inefficient since it places the large burden of delivering the messages on the customer i.e. the bank or school system in our examples . Each sending customer has to have complex hardware software systems in place to perform this multicast in a sequential manner e.g. phone number by phone number basis to each of the recipients in the group. This can result in long delay times in transmitting multicast messages to groups of recipients and require large capital investments by the customers to purchase and maintain such hardware software systems.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However it should be clear and apparent that the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

The detailed description below also uses a number of terms with respect to various system components and operations. Although generally known use of several of these terms may not be strictly standardized in the art. For the convenience of the reader the following definitions for some of the relevant terms are presented as used by way of example in the detailed description below.

The terms service and web service are used interchangeably herein to refer broadly and inclusively to any unit of software functionality that is exposed to at least one other service application or system on a local area network wide area network or even a single process. For example such functionality of the web service may be provided to one or more clients via an interface described in a machine readable format for example the Web Services Description Language WSDL . A web service generally passes messages e.g. requests and responses to and from clients as a form of communication through the communication network. Furthermore the communication network can include the Internet or World Wide Web and the service can be a web service hosted at a server configured to exchange communication with clients over the Internet.

A service that uses messages in an extensible markup language XML format is typically referred to as an XML service. An example of a commonly used network communication protocol that uses messages in XML format is the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP . Services that use the SOAP protocol are often called SOAP services. For example a SOAP service may define a message envelope that contains a header portion and a body portion. Further each SOAP message may be included or wrapped in a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP message for communication over the Internet. Additional features and characteristics of services using XML formatted messages with SOAP and HTTP would be apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art given this description.

An application programming interface API can refer to a process providing an interface for or access to one or more web services. The API can be executable code used for accessing a single web service and or for accessing two or more web services through routines providing additional functionality over the functionality of the individual web services.

An API is a set of programming functions and or code provided by a first party to a second party so that the second party may incorporate functionality of the API into applications of the second party. Alternatively or in addition an API is a specification of remote calls available to a programmer. Location based services LBS refers to services offered to commercial or private users as opposed to government entities for e911 to obtain information as to location of a specified mobile station.

In general Application to Person communication or A2P allows customers to provide communication processes using real time interactive messages with various subscribers i.e. persons subscribing to services provided by the customer . This A2P communication is in part performed by Machine to Machine M2M communication which provides data communication between the actual machines e.g. mobile devices through various devices of a network where data can be reviewed by the customers and or subscribers.

In one example some customers may provide group messaging services to a plurality of subscriber devices. These subscribers may be associated with a group that all receive the same message from the customer device during a group message delivery. shows a network block diagram of a system capable of performing group message delivery from an enterprise customer application to various subscriber devices . Shown in is a customer device that runs application the customer device may be a server or the like of an entity e.g. a company or another organization e.g. Twitter that wants to provide a group message delivery service to its subscribers e.g. Twitter account holders .

Access platform is a device including at least a communication interface memory and a processor that is operated by a communication service provider e.g. Verizon who provides the group message delivery service to customer device and various customer devices not shown through an application programming interface API based on the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP web service. Access platform is usually owned by the carrier and sits near the edge of the core network to interwork with customer application servers e.g. device in that have authentication protocol and policy controls in place. For routing delivery and processing messages over different types of core networks e.g. CDMA GSM LTE WiFi etc. access platform interworks with different core network elements such as routers gateways etc. not shown . The API exposes the network capabilities such as SMS MMS and LBS location based service for business customers.

Cloud is a core network that separates the access platform device from various subscriber devices which may be mobile devices having mobile device numbers personal computers and any other electronic device that is able to receive messages such as SMS MMS email etc. In general the enterprise operating customer device may be a corporation or an entity such as a bank transportation authority automotive manufacturer social media provider government department or agency etc. that wants to send a message in multicast form to a large number of subscriber devices i.e. devices subscribed to messaging services provided by the customer application . The users of subscriber devices may be employees customers or other users associated in some manner with the particular enterprise. For example a bank may need to send an alert or security update to users of various subscriber devices. In another example a transportation authority may need to send train schedule updates or delay notifications to customers passengers that are going to be riding on the trains. In this example the customers may be persons and or organizations that have signed up using their personal information to receive message services from the transportation authority on their mobile phones as text messages or email messages. In yet another example an automotive manufacturer may need to send software security patches for various vehicles. In these various examples the customer device sends the message to access platform . Access platform then delivers the message to the identified subscriber device s e.g. mobile devices .

An example of sending a message from a customer device to a subscriber device is shown in . Specifically customer application may submit a message request to access platform labeled SubmitMsgReq . The message request may include the source address SrcAddr a subscriber device number such as the assigned mobile directory number MDN the content of the message as well as other information such as a tunnel identifier TID . Access platform may then send a submit request to core network including some or all of the information from the request . Core network may respond with a submit response where Src is the source address such as the sender device MDN and where MsgID is a message ID for each delivery which is generated by the core network for the access platform and the applications to tie the sent messages to their respective delivery receipts and may then send a delivery request to subscriber device which then responds with a delivery response . Delivery response may include status information as to whether the message has actually been received by subscriber device . Core network may then send a delivery message to access platform which is then forwarded back to customer application via message . It is noted that the various message parameters e.g. SrcAddr MDN MsgID Status TID etc. are similar throughout the various messages shown in with some slight format variations.

In the example shown in if the entity wants to send the same message to some number of end user devices the customer application has to sequentially send a submit message request for each and every subscriber device that it wishes to send the message to i.e. the customer device has the burden of sending many message requests to the access platform and waiting for the status of the delivery through the access platform in a sequential manner . Platform and core network repeat the process steps shown for each copy of the message and associated destination device separately essentially multiplying the work load per message by the number of intended destination devices.

The sequential multicast technique described herein shifts the burden from customer application to access platform . Specifically customer application during a registration process prior to the multicast may send a list of subscriber device numbers e.g. mobile telephone numbers it wishes to send one or more messages to in the future. Access platform stores these subscriber device numbers in a table and associates these subscriber device numbers with a group ID. The group ID may associate a potentially large number hundreds or thousands of subscriber devices with a particular group. The access platform then sends this group ID back to customer application .

After the registration process to send a message to the subscriber devices in the group customer application sends the group ID to access platform along with the content of the message. Access platform then looks up the group ID in the table e.g. compares the received group ID to a plurality of group IDs stored in the table and finds the subscriber device numbers that are associated with the group ID. Access platform then sequentially performs the message delivery for each of the subscriber devices that are listed with respect to the group ID. For example a customer may store a number of pre established group lists with different group IDs. The customer may then select one of the IDs and generate a message that is to be sent to the members of the group. The customer may then forward the selected ID and the message to the access platform for group message delivery. The access platform uses the group ID to determine the appropriate subscribers to whom to send the message. Once the messages are delivered to the subscriber devices the access platform can then send a single group status message identified by a group ID back to the customer application indicating the number of subscriber devices that have received the message. This process essentially places the burden on the access platform through generation and management of the group ID table as well as providing various messaging services e.g. SMS MMS LBS etc. to subscriber devices on behalf of the customer.

An example of this messaging scheme between customer application and the subscriber device is shown in . Specifically after registration not shown of the subscriber device numbers on access platform customer application sends a submit group message request which includes a group ID to access platform . Access platform then responds to customer application with a submit group message response . This response may include a group ID utilized by access platform in the table. In messages and access platform transmits the message request to core network and receives responses from the subscriber devices including as shown subscriber device . Specifically in message the submit request may be sent to core network for one of the subscriber devices. Core network may then respond to access platform with a submit response . Core network may then transmit delivery request message to a particular subscriber device and receive a delivery response from that subscriber device. This delivery response may then be sent from core network back to access platform .

These five steps are generally repeated for each individual subscriber device i.e. each respective MDN that is listed in the group table. In response to a delivery message which may include status information from each subscriber device access platform edits the group table with status information. This status information indicates whether a particular subscriber device has received the message. If the subscriber device does not receive the message network elements in core network will retry sending the message to the subscriber device according to retry schedules in place e.g. 5 minutes 15 minutes 1 hour etc. . There may also be a max retry time specified such as 5 days where the core network will not retry sending the message anymore to that unattainable subscriber device.

In one example access platform waits a predetermined amount of time and send the group delivery status message to customer application . The group status message includes a list of all the subscriber devices that have received the message. This group status delivery message may be delivered periodically to the customer application e.g. 30 seconds 60 seconds 3 minutes 5 minutes 15 minutes 1 hour .

This periodicity for delivering the group status message may be set according to various factors such as customer requirements requests that may be based on the content urgency of the message the particular group designated in the message etc. For example in a public service scenario the customer may specify that the group status delivery messages should be sent more frequently for urgent messages e.g. natural disaster warnings as opposed to less urgent messages e.g. test messages and for more important groups e.g. persons in imminent danger as opposed to less important groups e.g. persons further away from the pending disaster . The periodicity may also be set according to a percent of subscriber devices within the group that the access network has reached with a successful message delivery. For example the access platform may wait until a minimum number of group subscribers e.g. 80 have been reached successfully before reporting the group status.

Essentially access platform collects many status messages from many destination subscriber devices and then sends this status information in a single message back to customer application in a periodic manner as described above. The updated status messages provided by access platform may include all of the subscriber devices that have received the message or only the latest subscriber devices e.g. the subscriber devices that received the message after the initial status message was already transmitted that have received the messages. Similar to the initial status message the transmission time of the updated status message may also be controlled based on message urgency group importance customer requests access platform hardware software limitations etc. For example the initial status message may be sent when 80 of the subscribers received the message. The updated status message may then be sent when 90 of the subscribers have received the message. Further updated status messages may then be sent when even higher percentages of the subscriber devices have received the message.

Alternatively or in conjunction with the status message customer application may also have a polling operation where it can poll access platform for status information. In this later example customer application transmits a polling request for a particular group ID at some point after it requested delivery to the group ID. The time for transmitting the polling request may be selected by the customer application as a predetermined amount of time after requesting to transmit the message to the subscriber devices. For example if a long period of time passes and a group status message has not been received the customer device may send the polling request to force the access platform to transmit the group status message. Access platform may then retrieve the status information from the table stored in memory and deliver this group status information along with the associated group ID in message . This allows the customer application to request group status information at any time as long as the access platform is available for such a transmission. It is noted that the polling request can be the sole method for obtaining the group status message or it can be used in conjunction with periodic transmission of the group status message e.g. the customer may send the polling request in between periodic transmissions of the group status message from the access platform .

In the example where the group status message is sent from access platform to customer application it is noted that access platform may introduce its own algorithm to provide batch group delivery status information to the customer application. This batch group status delivery status may include adjustable timers for each individual customer application. These timers may be based on customer business needs and other parameters. The timer and party can be set to various schedules or a default may be applied.

The table described above may include various pieces of information including but not limited to subscriber device numbers and various group IDs associated with the subscriber device numbers. shows an example of a group message delivery table. This group message delivery table includes a column which indicates a group ID. Column shows various subscriber device numbers that are associated with the group ID. Column shows various subscriber index numbers that are associated with each of the subscriber numbers in column . Column shows status information for each of the subscriber devices with respect to a particular message being sent from the customer application.

Thus during registration the access platform generates the table shown in including the group ID the subscriber numbers associated with the group ID and the index numbers. As the message status information is received from the various subscriber numbers during the delivery process access platform edits column in the table shown in to indicate whether the message has been delivered or the message is still in the network. Although not shown the table may also include various other group IDs associated with other customers and or subscriber devices. In general the access platform may look up a received group ID and compare it to various group IDs stored in the table to find a match.

Although not shown customer application may also modify the list in after it is created. Customer application may remove or add subscriber numbers from the list. This may be performed automatically based on rules running on customer application or manually by an operator controlling customer application or when desired by the customer via a web site or the like allowing customer personnel to manage the customer s distribution list. In general when the customer application wants to edit the group list a message not shown may be sent from the customer application to the access platform with instructions for editing the group list.

During operation a customer device may want to deliver a message to a number of subscriber devices in an identified group. Shown in is a high level flowchart of customer application and access platform sending a message to various subscriber devices associated with the group ID. In step customer application sends the group ID and a message to access platform . In step access platform looks up the subscriber device numbers that are associated with the received group ID. In step access platform performs a sequential multicast of the message received from customer application to each of the subscriber devices that have subscriber device numbers associated with the group ID. In step access platform receives status information from the various subscriber devices populates the group message table and sends a group status delivery message back to customer application . The group status message includes information of the subscriber devices that have received the message or other subscriber devices that have not yet received the message. Although not shown in customer application may also poll access platform for this group status information.

It is noted that in one example the group status message may include a number percentage of successful deliveries within each respective group. In another example the group status message may include the actual MDNs that have successfully received the message and the actual MDNs that have not received the message. For example the initial group status message may be automatically sent from the access platform to the customer application indicating a percentage of successful deliveries in the group. After the initial group status message the customer application may poll the access platform for more specific information such as the actual MDN numbers that have successfully and or unsuccessfully received the message.

It is also noted that the table shown in may include a number not shown representing the number of attempted deliveries to each MDN. This number may be included in the group status message thereby indicating the number of attempts to the customer application.

Various functions of the customer application access platform and subscriber devices shown in and described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer software firmware or hardware e.g. microprocessor FPGA RAM ROM etc. . The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as subscriber devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

As shown by the discussion above aspects of the group message delivery service may be implemented on an access platform or other similar equipment of a messaging service provider such as a mobile network operator. Although such a platform may be implemented using purpose built hardware it is also contemplated that such a platform may be implemented by appropriate configuration programming of a general purpose computer gateway router or the like.

A server for example includes a data communication interface for packet data communication. The server also includes a central processing unit CPU in the form of one or more processors for executing program instructions. The server platform typically includes an internal communication bus program storage and data storage for various data files to be processed and or communicated by the server although the server often receives programming and data via network communications. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such servers are conventional in nature. Of course the server functions may be implemented in a distributed fashion on a number of similar platforms to distribute the processing load.

The subscriber devices may be mobile devices or other types of user terminal devices. A computer type user terminal device such as a PC or tablet computer similarly includes a data communication interface CPU main memory and one or more mass storage devices for storing user data and the various executable programs. A mobile device type user terminal may include similar elements but will typically use smaller components that also require less power to facilitate implementation in a portable form factor. The various types of user terminal devices will also include various user input and output elements. A computer for example may include a keyboard and a cursor control selection device such as a mouse trackball joystick or touchpad and a display for visual outputs. A microphone and speaker enable audio input and output. Some smartphones include similar but smaller input and output elements. Tablets and other types of smartphones utilize touch sensitive display screens instead of separate keyboard and cursor control elements. The hardware elements operating systems and programming languages of such user terminal devices also are conventional in nature.

Hence aspects of the methods of sending group messages outlined above may be embodied in programming. Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Storage type media include any or all of the tangible memory of the computers processors or the like or associated modules thereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide non transitory storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such communications for example may enable loading of the software from one computer or processor into another for example from a management server or host computer of the service provider into the access platform. Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein unless restricted to non transitory tangible storage media terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution.

Hence a machine readable medium may take many forms including but not limited to a tangible storage medium a carrier wave medium or physical transmission medium. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s or the like such as may be used to implement the subscriber devices subscriber devices access platform devices within the core network etc. shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as main memory of such a computer platform. Tangible transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier wave transmission media can take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals or acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD or DVD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical storage medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave transporting data or instructions cables or links transporting such a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

Unless otherwise stated all measurements values ratings positions magnitudes sizes and other specifications that are set forth in this specification including in the claims that follow are approximate not exact. They are intended to have a reasonable range that is consistent with the functions to which they relate and with what is customary in the art to which they pertain.

The scope of protection is limited solely by the claims that now follow. That scope is intended and should be interpreted to be as broad as is consistent with the ordinary meaning of the language that is used in the claims when interpreted in light of this specification and the prosecution history that follows and to encompass all structural and functional equivalents. Notwithstanding none of the claims are intended to embrace subject matter that fails to satisfy the requirement of Sections 101 102 or 103 of the Patent Act nor should they be interpreted in such a way. Any unintended embracement of such subject matter is hereby disclaimed.

Except as stated immediately above nothing that has been stated or illustrated is intended or should be interpreted to cause a dedication of any component step feature object benefit advantage or equivalent to the public regardless of whether it is or is not recited in the claims.

It will be understood that the terms and expressions used herein have the ordinary meaning as is accorded to such terms and expressions with respect to their corresponding respective areas of inquiry and study except where specific meanings have otherwise been set forth herein. Relational terms such as first and second and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such entities or actions. The terms comprises comprising or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion such that a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. An element proceeded by a or an does not without further constraints preclude the existence of additional identical elements in the process method article or apparatus that comprises the element.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in various embodiments for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separately claimed subject matter.

