---

title: Image processing
abstract: An image recognition approach employs both computer generated and manual image reviews to generate image tags characterizing an image. The computer generated and manual image reviews can be performed sequentially or in parallel. The generated image tags may be provided to a requester in real-time, be used to select an advertisement, and/or be used as the basis of an internet search. In some embodiments generated image tags are used as a basis for an upgraded image review. A confidence of a computer generated image review may be used to determine whether or not to perform a manual image review.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09569465&OS=09569465&RS=09569465
owner: Cloudsight, Inc.
number: 09569465
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140501
---
This application claims priority and benefit of US. Provisional Patent Application entitled Mobile Device Identification Application filed May 1 2013 and given Ser. No. 61 956 927 US Provisional Patent Application entitled Visual Search filed Apr. 4 2014 and having Ser. No. 61 975 691 U.S. Provisional Patent Application entitled Visual Search Advertising filed Apr. 7 2014 and having Ser. No. 61 976 494 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application entitled Image Processing filed May 1 2014 and having Ser. No. 61 987 156. The above provisional patent applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The invention is in the field of image processing and more particularly in the field of characterizing content of images.

It is typically more difficult to extract information from images as compared to text data. However a significant fraction of information is found in images. The reliability of automated image recognition systems is highly dependent on the contents of an image. For example optical character recognition is more reliable than facial recognition. It is a goal of image recognition to tag an image. Tagging refers to the identification of tags words that characterize the content of an image. For example an image of a car may be tagged with the words car Ford Granada or White 1976 Ford Granada with broken headlight. These tags include varying amounts of information and as such may vary in usefulness.

Embodiments of the invention include a two pronged approach to tagging of images. The first prong is to perform automated image recognition on an image. The automated image recognition results in a review of the image. The image review includes one or more tags identifying contents of the image and optionally also a measure of confidence representative of the reliability of the automated image recognition. The second prong in the approach to tagging of images includes a manual tagging of the image. Manual tagging includes a person viewing each image considering the content of the image and manually providing tags representative of the content of the image. Automated image recognition has an advantage in that the cost in time or money of analyzing each image can be relatively low. Manual tagging of images has an advantage of higher accuracy and reliability.

Embodiments of the invention combine both automated image recognition and manual image recognition. In some embodiments automated image recognition is performed first. The resulting image review typically includes both one or more tags characterizing the image and a measure of confidence in the accuracy of these tags. If the confidence is above a predetermined threshold then these tags are associated with the image and provided as an output of the tagging process. If the confidence is below the predetermined threshold then a manual review of the image is performed. The manual review results in additional and or different tags that characterize the contents of the image. In some embodiments the automated image recognition and the manual review of the image are performed in parallel. The manual review is optionally cancelled or aborted if the automated image recognition results in one or more tags having a confidence above the predetermined threshold.

In some embodiments recognition of an image can be upgraded. Upgrading of the image recognition process includes a request for further or improved tags representative of the content of the image. For example if automated image recognition results in the tags white car an upgrade of this recognition may result in the tags white Ford Granada. In some embodiments an upgraded review makes use of an expert human reviewer. For example the above example may include the use of a human reviewer with an expert knowledge of automobiles. Other examples of reviewer expertise are discussed elsewhere herein.

Various embodiments of the invention include features directed toward improving the accuracy of image recognition while also minimizing cost. By way of example these features include efficient use of human reviewers real time delivery of image tags and or seamless upgrades of image recognition. The approaches to image recognition disclosed herein are optionally used to generate image tags suitable for performing internet searches and or selecting advertisements. For example in some embodiments image tags are automatically used to perform a Google search and or sell advertising based on Google s AdWords.

Various embodiments of the invention include an image processing system comprising an I O configured to communicate an image and image tags over a communication network an automatic identification interface configured to communicate the image to an automatic identification system and to receive a computer generated review of the image from the automatic identification system the computer generated review including one or more image tags identifying contents of the image destination logic configured to determine a first destination to send the image to for a first manual review of the image by a first human reviewer image posting logic configured to post the image to the destination review logic configured to receive the a manual review of the image from the destination and to receive the computer generated review the manual review including one or more image tags identifying contents of the image response logic configured to provide the image tags of the computer generated review and the image tags of the manual review to the communication network memory configured to store the image and a microprocessor configured to execute at least the destination logic.

Various embodiments of the invention include a method of processing an image the method comprising receiving an image from an image source distributing the image to an automated image identification system receiving a computer generated review from the automated image identification system the computer generated review including one or more image tags assigned to the image by the automated image identification system and a measure of confidence the measure of confidence being a measure of confidence that the image tags assigned to the image correctly characterize contents of the image placing the image in an image queue determining a destination posting the image for manual review to a first destination the first destination including a display device of a human image reviewer and receiving a manual image review of the image from the destination the image review including one or more image tags assigned to the image by the human image reviewer the one or more image tags characterizing contents of the image.

Part of the image tagging performed by Image Processing System includes sending images to Destinations individually labeled A B etc. . Destinations are computing devices of human image reviewers and are typically geographically remote from Image Processing System . Destinations include at least a display and data entry devices such as a touch screen keyboard and or microphone. Destinations may include personal computers computing tablets smartphones etc. In some embodiments Destinations include a computing application specifically configured to facilitate review of images. This application is optionally provided to Destinations from Image Processing System . In some embodiments Image Processing System is configured for human image reviewers to log into a user account from Destinations . Destinations are typically associated with an individual reviewer and may be identified by an internet protocol address a MAC address a login session identifier cellular telephone identifier and or the like. In some embodiments Destinations include an audio to text converter. Image tagging data provided by a human image reviewer at a member of Destinations is sent to Image Processing System . The image tagging data can include textual image tags audio data including verbalized tags and or non tag information such as upgrade requests or inappropriate explicit material designations.

Image Processing System includes an I O input output configured for communicating with external systems. I O can include routers switches modems firewalls and or the like. I O is configured to receive images from Image Sources to send the images to Destinations to receive tagging data from Destinations and optionally to send image tags to Image Sources .

Image Processing System further includes Memory . Memory includes hardware configured for the non transient storage of data such as images image tags computing instructions and other data discussed herein. Memory may include for example random access memory RAM hard drives optical storage media and or the like. Memory is configured to store specific data as described herein through the use of specific data structures indexing file structures data access routines security protocols and or the like.

Image Processing System further includes at least one Processor . Processor is a hardware device such as an electronic microprocessor. Processor is configured to perform specific functions through hardware firmware or loading of software instructions into registers of Processor . Image Processing System optionally includes a plurality of Processor . Processor is configured to execute the various types of logic discussed herein.

Images received by Image Processing System are first stored in an Image Queue . Image Queue is an ordered list of images pending review stored in a sorted list. Images stored in Image Queue are typically stored in association with image identifiers used to reference the images and may have different priorities. For example images received from a photo sharing website may have lower priority than images received from a smartphone. Generally those images for which a requester is waiting to receive image tags representing an image in real time are given higher priority relative to those for which the image tags are used for some other purpose. Image Queue is optionally stored in Memory .

Within Image Queue images are optionally stored in association with an image identifier or index and other data associated with each image. For example an image may be associated with source data relating to one of Image Sources . The source data can include geographic information such as global positioning system coordinates a street and or city name a zip code and or the like. The source data may include an internet protocol address a universal resource locator an account name an identifier of a smartphone and or the like. Source data can further include information about a language used on a member of Image Sources a requested priority a search request e.g. an request to do an internet search based on image tags resulting from the image and or the like.

In some embodiments an image within Image Queue is stored in association with an indication of a particular subset of the image the subset typically including an item of particular interest. For example a requestor of image tags may be interested in obtaining image tags relating to the contents of a particular subset of an image. This can occur when an image includes several objects. To illustrate considering an image of a hand with a ring on one of the fingers the user may wish to designate the ring as being a particular area of interest. Some embodiments of the invention include an application configured for a user to specify the particular item of interest by clicking on the object or touching the object on a display of Image Source B. This specification typically occurs prior to sending the image to Image Processing System .

If an image is stored in association with an indication that a particular subset of the image is of particular importance then an Image Marking Logic is optionally used to place a mark on the image. The mark being disposed to highlight the particular subset. This mark may be made by modifying pixels of the image corresponding to the subset and this mark allows a human image reviewer to focus on the marked subset. For example the image may be marked with a rectangle or circle prior to the image being posted to one or more of Destinations . In alternative embodiments Image Marking Logic is included within an application configured to execute on one or more of Image Sources or Destinations . Image Marking Logic includes hardware firmware and or software stored on a non transient computer readable medium.

Under the control of Processor images within Image Queue are provided to an Automatic Identification Interface . The images are provided thus as a function of their priority and position in Image Queue . Automatic Identification interface is configured to communicate the image and optionally any data associated with the image to an Automatic Identification System . Automatic Identification Interface is further configured to receive a computer generated review of the image from Automatic Identification System the computer generated review including one or more image tags identifying contents of the image. In some embodiments Automatic Identification Interface is configured to communicate the image and data via Network in a format appropriate for an application programming interface API of Automatic Identification System . In some embodiments Automatic Identification System is included within Image Processing System and Automatic Identification Interface includes for example a system call within an operating system or over a local area network.

Automatic Identification System is a computer automated system configured to review images without a need for human input on a per picture basis. The output of Automatic Identification System is a computer generated image review e.g. a review produced without human input on a per picture basis. Rudimentary examples of such systems are known in the art. See for example Kooaba Clarifai AlchemyAPI and Catchoom. Automatic Identification System is typically configured to automatically identify objects within a two dimensional image based on shapes characters and or patterns detected within the image. Automatic Identification System is optionally configured to perform optical character recognition and or barcode interpretation. In some embodiments Automatic Identification System is distinguished from systems of the prior art in that Automatic Identification System is configured to provide a computer generated review that is based on the image subset indication s and or image source data discussed elsewhere herein.

In addition to one or more image tag s a computer generated review generated by Automatic Identification System optionally includes a measure of confidence representative of a confidence that the one or more image tags correctly identify the contents of the image. For example a computer generated review of an image that is primarily characters or easily recognizable shapes may have a greater confidence measure than a computer generated review of an image that consists of abstract or ill defined shapes. Different automated image recognition systems may produce different confidence levels for different types of images. Automatic Identification Interface and Automatic Identification System are optional in embodiments in which automatic identification is performed by a third party.

Image Processing System further includes a Reviewer Pool and Reviewer Logic configured to manage the Reviewer Pool . Reviewer Pool includes a pool e.g. group or set of human image reviewers. Each of the human image reviewers is typically associated with a different member of Destinations . Memory is optionally configured to store Reviewer Pool . In some embodiments the human image reviewers included in Reviewer Pool are classified as active and inactive. For the purposes of this disclosure an active human image reviewer is considered to be one that is currently providing image tags or has indicated that they are prepared to provide image tags with minimal delay. In embodiments that include both active and inactive human image reviewers the active reviewers are those that are provided image for review. The number of active reviewers may be moderated in real time in response to a demand for image reviews. For example the classification of a human image reviewer may be changed from inactive to active based on a number of unviewed images in Image Queue . An inactive reviewer is one that is not yet active that has let the review of an image expire and or has indicated that they are not available to review images. Inactive reviewers may request to become active reviewers. Inactive reviewers who have made such a request can be reclassified as active human image reviewers when additional active human image reviewers are needed. The determination of which inactive reviewers are reclassified as active reviewers is optionally dependent on a reviewer score discussed elsewhere herein .

Reviewer Logic is configured to manage Reviewer Pool . This management optionally includes the classification of human image reviewers as active or inactive. For example Reviewer Logic may be configured to monitor a time that a human image reviewer takes to review an image and if a predetermined maximum review time referred to herein as an image expiration time changing the classification of the human image reviewer from active to inactive. In another example Reviewer Logic may be configured to calculate a review score for a human image reviewer. In some embodiments the review score is indicative of the completeness speed and or accuracy of image reviews performed by the particular human image reviewer. The review score can be calculated or changed based on review times and occasional test images. These test images may be for example images placed in Image Queue that have been previously reviewed by a different human image reviewer. The review score may also be a function of monetary costs associated with the human image reviewer. Reviewer Logic includes hardware firmware and or software stored on a non transient computer readable medium. In some embodiments reviewer scores are manually determined by human moderators. These human moderators review images and the tags assigned to these images by human image reviewers. Moderators are optionally sent a statistical sampling of reviewed images and they assign a score to the tagging of the images. This score is optionally used in determining reviewer scores.

In some embodiments Reviewer Logic is configured to monitor status of human image reviewers in real time. For example Reviewer Logic may be configured to monitor the entry of individual words or keystrokes as entered by a reviewer at Destination A. This monitoring can be used to determine which reviewers are actively reviewing images which reviewers have just completed review of an image and or which reviewers have not been providing tag input for a number of seconds or minutes. The entry of tag words using an audio device may also be monitored by Reviewer Logic .

In some embodiments members of Reviewer Pool are associated with a specialty in which the human image reviewer has expertise or special knowledge in. For example a reviewer may be an expert in automobiles and be associated with that specialty. Other specialties may include art plants animals electronics music food medical specialties clothing clothing accessories collectables etc. As is discussed elsewhere herein a specialty of a reviewer may be used to select that reviewer during an initial manual review and or during a review upgrade.

The review score and or specialty associated with a human image reviewer are optionally used by Reviewer Logic to determine which inactive reviewer to make active when additional active reviewers are required. Reviewer Logic includes hardware firmware and or software stored on a non transient computer readable medium.

Image Processing System further includes Destination Logic . Destination Logic is configured to determine one or more destinations e.g. Destinations to send an image to for manual review. Each of Destinations is associated with a respective human image reviewer of Reviewer Pool . The determinations made by Destination Logic are optionally based on characteristics of the human image reviewer at the determined destination. The destination may be a computing device smartphone tablet computer personal computer etc. of the human image reviewer. In some embodiments the destination is a browser from which the reviewer has logged into Image Processing System . In some embodiments determining the destination includes determining an MAC address session identifier internet protocol and or universal resource locator of one of Destinations . Destination Logic includes hardware firmware and or software stored on a non transient computer readable medium.

Typically Destination Logic is configured to determine Destinations associated with active rather than inactive human image reviewers as determined by Reviewer Logic . Destination Logic is also typically configured to determine Destinations based on review scores of reviewers. For example those reviewers having higher reviewer scores may be selected for higher priority reviews relative to reviewers having lower reviewer scores. Thus the determination of a member of Destinations can be based on both reviewer scores and image review priority.

In some embodiments Destination Logic is configured to determine one or more members of Destinations based on the real time monitoring of the associated reviewers input activity. As discussed elsewhere herein this monitoring may be performed by Reviewer Logic and can include detection of individual words or keystrokes entered by a human image reviewer. In some embodiments Destination Logic is configured to favor selecting Destination A at which a human image reviewer has just completed a review of an image relative to Destination B at which a human image reviewer is currently typing image tags on a keyboard.

In some embodiments Destination Logic is configured to use image tags received via Automatic Identification System to determine one or more members of Destinations . For example if an image tag of car is received via Automatic Identification Interface then Destination Logic can use this information to select a member of Destinations associated with a human image reviewer that has a specialty in automobiles.

The value of an image review may also be considered in the selection of a destination for manual review. For example an image review of high value may lead to the determination of a destination associated with a human image reviewer having a relatively high review score while an image review of lower value may lead to the determination of a destination associated with a human image reviewer having a relatively lower review score. In some embodiments for some image reviews Destination Logic is configured to select among Destinations so as to minimize a time required to review an image e.g. to minimize a time until the image tags of the manual review are provided to Network .

Destination Logic is optionally configured to determine multiple destinations for a single image. For example a first destination may be selected and then following an upgrade request a second destination may be determined. The upgrade request may come from the Image Source A or from a human image reviewer associated with the first destination. In some embodiments Destination Logic is configured to determine multiple destinations to which the image will be posted to in parallel. For example two three or more destinations each associated with a different human image reviewer may be determined and the same image posted to all determined destinations in parallel. As used in this context in parallel means that the image is posted to at least a second destination before any part of a review is received from the first destination.

In various embodiments there are a variety of reasons that two or more destinations may be determined by Destination Logic . For example a request for an upgraded review may require a human image reviewer having a particular specialty. Referring to the automotive example an image that is first tagged with the tag white car may result in an upgrade quest for more information. Destination Logic may be configured to then select a destination associated with a human image reviewer have a specialty in automobiles e.g. a reviewer who can provide the tags 1976 Ford Granada. 

Another instance that may require a second destination occurs when the manual review of an image takes too long. Typically the tagging of an image should occur within an allotted time period or the review is considered to expire. The allotted time period is optionally a function of the priority of the image review. Those reviews that are intended to occur in real time may have a shorter time period relative to lower priority reviews. If the review of an image expires Image Processing System is optionally configured to provide the image to an additional human image reviewer associated with a destination determined by Destination Logic .

Another instance that may require a second destination occurs when a first human reviewer makes an upgrade request. For example the request to upgrade the review resulting in a tag of car may come from the human image reviewer that provided the tag car. While this example is simplistic other examples may include images of more esoteric subject matter such as packaged integrated circuits.

Image Processing System further includes Image Posting Logic configured to post images for manual review to Destinations determined by Destination Logic . Posting typically includes communicating the images to one or more Destinations via Network . In various embodiments Image Posting Logic is further configured to provide information associated with the image to Destinations . For example Image Posting Logic may post along with the image an indication of a subset of the image e.g. subset identification an image marked by Image Marking Logic information identifying a source of the image e.g. source data discussed elsewhere herein a priority of the review of the image an image expiration period location information associated with the image and or the like. As discussed elsewhere herein source data can includes a universal resource locator global positioning coordinates longitude and latitude an account identifier an internet protocol address a social account an photo sharing account and or the like.

In some embodiments Image Posting Logic is configured to provide an image for manual review to more than one of Destinations at the approximately the same time. For example an image may be provided to Destination A and Destination B in parallel. Parallel delivery means for example that the image is provided to both Destinations A and B before tagging information is received back from either of these Destinations .

In some embodiments Image Posting Logic is configured to provide an image for manual review to one or more of Destinations prior to receiving image tags from Automatic Identification System . Alternatively in some embodiments Image Posting Logic is configured to wait until a computer generated review for the image is received from Automatic Identification System prior to posting the image to one or more of Destinations . In these embodiments the computer generated review including image tags is optionally also posted to the one or more of Destinations in association with the image.

Image Posting Logic is optionally configured to post identifiers of images along with the images. Image Posting Logic includes hardware firmware and or software stored on a non transient computer readable medium.

Image Processing System further includes Review Logic configured to manage the manual and automated reviews of images. This management includes monitoring progress of reviews receiving reviews from Automatic Identification System and or Destinations . The received reviews include image tags as discussed elsewhere herein. In some embodiments Review Logic is configured to control posting of the image to one of Destinations based on a measure of confidence. The measure of confidence being representative of a confidence that one or more image tags already received are correct. These one or more image tags may be received from Automatic Identification System and or one of Destinations . For example in some embodiments if the confidence of an image review by Automatic Identification System is greater than a predetermined threshold then Review Logic may determine that manual review of the image is not necessary. The predetermined threshold can be a function of the value of the image review of the priority of the image review of the number and quality of the available Destinations and or the like. Review Logic includes hardware firmware and or software stored on a non transient computer readable medium.

In some embodiments if an image was sent to Automatic Identification System in parallel with being sent to one or more of Destinations then the receipt of a review from Automatic Identification System having a confidence above a predetermined threshold may result in cancellation of the manual review at the one or more of Destinations by Review Logic . Likewise if an image is sent to multiple Destinations in parallel and an image review is received from a first of these Destinations then Review Logic is optionally configured to cancel the review requests for the image at the other Destinations . In some embodiments Review Logic is configured to cancel the review request at the other Destinations once a keystroke or word is received from the first of the Destinations .

In some embodiments Review Logic is configured to monitor activity of a human image reviewer in real time. This monitoring can include receiving review inputs from Destinations on a word by word or individual keystroke basis. As discussed elsewhere herein the words and or keystrokes are optionally passed on to one of Image Sources as they are received by Review Logic . The monitoring of a manual reviewer s activity can be used to determine when the review of an image expires and or the progress in completing a manual image review. The status of a human image reviewer may be provided by Review Logic to Reviewer Logic in real time. Using this status Reviewer Logic may change the status of the reviewer from active to inactive adjust a stored review score of the reviewer establish or change a specialty for the reviewer and or the like.

In some embodiments Review Logic is configured to control posting of images to Destinations by receiving measures of confidence e.g. of the accuracy of image reviews and sending responsive signals to Destination Logic and or Image Posting Logic . As such Review Logic can be configured to control posting of an image to one or more of Destinations based on a measure of confidence. The measure of confidence being representative of a confidence that one or more image tags correctly identify the contents of the image. In some embodiments Review Logic is configured to receive reviews from manual image reviewers that include information other than image tags. For example Review Logic may receive an upgrade request from a human image reviewer and cause an upgraded image review to be requested. Review Logic is optionally configured to process other non tag information received in a manual or computer generated review. This information can include identification of the image as being improper e.g. obscene identification of the image as containing no identifiable objects identification of the image as having been sent to a reviewer of the wrong specialty and or the like.

In some embodiments Review Logic is configured to adjust the confidence of an image review by comparing image reviews of the same image from multiple sources. These image reviews may all be computer generated all be manual reviews or include at least one computer generated review and at least one manual review.

In some embodiments Review Logic is configured to provide image tags received as part of a first computer generated or manual review and to provide the received image tags to a human image reviewer at Destinations B. An agent e.g. a browser or special purpose application executing on Destination B is optionally configured to provide the image tags of the first review to a display of Destination B. In this manner the human image reviewer at Destination B can edit add to delete and or replace the image tags of the first review. For example image tags received from Destination A may be provided to Destination B for modification.

In some embodiments Review Logic is configured to calculate review scores based on the results of image reviews received from Destinations the time taken for these image reviews and the accuracy of these image reviews.

In some embodiments Review Logic is configured to provide image reviews to a source of the image e.g. one of Image Sources using a Response Logic . The image reviews may be provided when the image review is complete on a character by character basis or on a word by word basis. When provided on a character by character basis or a word by word basis the image tags are optionally provided to the source of the image as the characters or words are received from a human image reviewer. Optionally Response Logic is configured to provide the image review via Network .

Image reviews are not necessarily returned to one of Image Sources . For example if Image Source A is a photo sharing service or a social networking website image reviews of images from Image Source A may be stored in association with an account on the photo sharing service or the social networking website. This storage can be in Memory or at a location external to Image Processing System such as at a webserver hosting the website.

In some embodiments Response Logic is configured to execute a search based on image tags received in a computer generated and or manual image review. The results of this search can be provided to a source of the image e.g. Image Source A or B. For example in some embodiments a user uses a smartphone to create an image with a camera of Image Source A. The image is provided to Image Processing system which generates an image review of the image using Automatic Identification System and Destination A. The image review includes image tags that are then automatically used to perform an Internet search e.g. a google or yahoo search on the image tags. The results of this internet search are then provided to the user s smartphone.

In some embodiments Response Logic is configured to provide image tags of a computer generated and or manual review to an Advertising System . Advertising System is configured to select advertisements based on the image tags. The selected advertisements are optionally provided to the source of the image used to generate the image tags. For example Response Logic may provide the tags 1976 Ford Granada with broken headlight to Advertising System and in response Advertising System may select advertisements for replacement headlights. If the source of the image used to generate these tags is a website the advertisements may be displayed on the website. Specifically if the source of the image is an account on a photo sharing or social networking website then the advertisements may be displayed on that account. Advertising System is optionally included in Image Processing System . Advertising System is optionally configured to take bids for providing advertising in response to specific tags. Advertising System optionally includes Google s Adwords.

Image Processing System optionally further includes Content Processing Logic configured to extract images for tagging from members of Image Sources . Content Processing Logic is configured to parse webpages including images and optionally text and extract images from these webpages for tagging. The resulting image tags may then be provided to Advertising System for selection of advertisements that can be placed on the webpage from which the image was extracted. In some embodiments Content Processing Logic is configured to emulate browser functions in order to load images that would normally be displayed on a webpage. These images may be displayed on a webpage associated with a specific account a social networking site a photo sharing site a blogging site a news site a dating site a sports site and or the like. Content Processing Logic is optionally configured to parse metadata tags in order to identify images.

Image Capture Screen further includes a Field showing a previously captured image and resulting image tags. In the example show the previously captured image includes the same white cup without the Rectangle and the image tags include White Starbucks Coffee Cup. Also shown is text stating Slide for options. 

In a Receive Image Step and image is received by Image Processing System . The image is optionally received from one of Image Sources via Network . The image may be in a standard format such as TIF JPG PNG GIF etc. The image may be one of a sequence of images that form an image sequence of a video. The image may have been captured by a user using a camera. The image may have been captured by a user from a movie or television show. In some embodiments Receive Image Step includes a user using an image capture application to capture the image and communicate the image to Image Processing System . This application may be disposed within a camera television video display device multimedia device and or the like. Receive Image Step is optionally facilitate using Content Processing Logic .

In an optional Receive Subset Identification Step data identifying one or more subsets of the image is received by Image Processing System . Typically the one or more subsets include a set of image pixels in which an item of particular interest is located. The one or more subsets may be identified by pixel locations screen coordinates areas and or points on the received image. In some embodiments the subsets are selected by a user using a touch screen or cursor of one of Image Sources .

In an optional Receive Source Data Step source data regarding the source of the image received in Receive Image Step is received by Image Processing System . As discussed elsewhere herein the source data can include geographic information an Internet protocol address a universal resource locator an account name an identifier of a smartphone information about a language used on a member of Image Sources a search request user account information and or the like. In some embodiments source data is automatically sent by an application agent running on Image Source . For example global positioning system coordinates may automatically be generated on a smartphone and provided to Image Processing System .

In an optional Receive Analysis Priority Step a priority for the tagging of the image received in Receive Image Step is received within Image Processing System . In some embodiments the priority is manually entered by a user of Image Source A. In some embodiments the priority is dependent on an amount paid for the review of the image. In some embodiments the priority is dependent on a type of Image Sources A. For example images received from a static website may automatically be given a lower priority relative to images received from a handheld mobile device. An image whose source is identified by a universal resource locator may be given a lower priority relative to images whose source is identified by a mobile telephone number. As such the priority is optionally derived from the source data received in Receive Source Data Step .

The image and data received in Steps are optionally received together and optionally stored in Memory .

In a Distribute Image Step the image and optionally any associated data received in Steps is distributed to Automatic Identification System via Automatic Identification Interface . This distribution may be internal to Image Processing System or via Network .

In a Receive Automated Response Step a computer generated image review is received from Automatic Identification System . The computer generated image review includes one or more image tags assigned to the image by Automatic Identification System . The computer generated image review also includes a measure of confidence. The measure of confidence is a measure of confidence that the image tags assigned to the image correctly characterize contents of the image. For example an image including primarily easily recognizable characters may receive a higher measure of confidence relative to an image of abstract shapes.

In an Optional Determine Confidence Step the measure of confidence included in the image review is compared with one or more predetermined levels. The predetermined levels are optionally a function of the priority of the image review a price of the image review a source of the image and or the like. In an Optional Confident Step the process proceeds to an optional Perform Search Step if the confidence of the computer generated image review is above the predetermined threshold s and proceeds to a Queue Image Step if the confidence of the computer generated image is below the predetermined threshold s . Determine Confidence Step is optionally performed using Review Logic .

In Perform Search Step the image tags assigned to an image are used to perform a search. For example the image tag Ford car may be used to automatically perform a google search using the words Ford and car. 

In a Provide Results Step the image tags assigned to the image and optionally the results of a search performed in Perform Search Step are provided to a requester of the image review. For example if the image was received from Image Source A and Image Source A is a smartphone then the image tags and search results are typically provided to the smartphone. If the image was received from a member of Image Sources such as a website that the image tags and optional search results may be provided to a host of the website to a third party to Advertising System and or the like. In some embodiments the image tags are automatically added to the website such that the image tags are searchable e.g. can be searched on to find the reviewed image.

In Queue Image Step the image is placed in Image Queue . This placement optionally includes marking a subset of the image using Image Marking Logic . As described elsewhere herein the marking is typically configured to identify objects of particular interest in the image. Advancement of the image in Image Queue may be dependent on the image s review priority the source of the image available human image reviewers the measure of confidence of the computer generated review of the image and or the like.

In a Determine Destination Step one or more members of Destinations are determined for the manual review of the image. The determination of a destination is optionally based on image tags included in a computer generated image review received from Automatic Identification System optionally based on specialties of human image reviewers at different Destinations optionally based on review scores of these human image reviewers and or based on other criteria discussed herein.

In a Post Image Step the image is posted to at least one of the Destinations determined in Determine Destination Step . In some embodiments Post Image Step includes posting the image to more than one of Destinations in parallel. The image is optionally posted via Network and is optionally posted along with a mark highlighting a subset of the image source data for the image a time before review expiration for the image image tags for the image received from Automatic Identification System and or the like.

In a Receive Review Step a manual review of the image is received from one or more of the determined Destination s . The manual image review may include one or more image tags assigned to the image by a human image reviewer. The one or more image tags are representative of the content of the image. The manual review may also include an upgrade request an indication that the image is unreviewable an indication that the image is improper an indication that the review expired and or the like.

In an Image Tagged Step the progress of the method is dependent on whether image tags were received in Receive Review Step . If image tags characterizing the content of the image were received then the method optionally proceeds with Perform Search Step and Provide Results Step . In these steps the image tags included in the manual image review and optionally the computer generated image review are used. Use of the image tags in the computer generated image review may be dependent on the confidence measure of this review.

Steps are optional if in Step the confidence measure is found to be above the predetermined threshold s .

In an optional Upgrade Step the progress of the method is dependent on whether an upgrade request has been received. If such a request has been received then the method proceeds to Determine Destination Step wherein a second different member of Destinations is determined. The determination may depend on image tags received in the manual image review received in Receive Review Step . The upgrade request may be received from a human image reviewer or from a requester of the image review from Image Source A or B etc. . The upgrade request may be received after the requestor has had a chance to review the image tags provided in Provide Results Step . For example the requestor may first receive image tags consisting of white car and then request a review upgrade because they desire further information. The review upgrade may result in the image being provided to a human image reviewer with a specialty in automobiles. This human image review can add to the existing image tags to produce white car 1976 Ford Granada. In some embodiments the requester can add source data indicating a subset of the image when requesting a review upgrade. For example the reviewer may wish to indicate particular interest in a broken headlight. This serves to direct the human image reviewers attention to this feature of the image produce tags that include broken headlight and result in a search Perform Search Step directed toward broken headlights for a 1976 Ford Granada.

In some embodiments upgrade request are generate automatically by Review Logic . For example if an image review appears too brief e.g. just car then Review Logic may automatically initiate a review upgrade. In some embodiments the automatic generation of upgrade requests is based on the presence of keywords within a manual image review. For example certain review specialties are associated with lists of keywords. In some embodiments when one of these keywords are received in a manual image review and an automated review upgrade is initiated. The review upgrade preferably includes a human image reviewer having a specialty associated with the received keyword. In a specific example one specialty includes automobiles and is associated with the keywords car truck van convertible and Ford. When one of these keywords is received in a manual image review Review Logic checks with Review Logic to determine if a human image reviewer having a specialty in automobiles is currently active. If so then an automatic upgrade is initiated and the image is sent to the Destination B of the reviewer having the automobiles specialty.

Referring to various embodiments of the invention include methods of managing of a reviewer pool. The methods including receiving an image for review selecting determining a first member of Destinations using Destination Logic posting the received image to the first member of Destinations using Review Logic to monitor progress of a manual image review of the image at the first member of Destinations the monitoring indicating that the review has taken more than a predetermined review time changing the status of a human image reviewer associated with the first member of Destinations from active to inactive in response to the review taking more than the predetermined review time selecting a second member of Destinations posting the image to the second member of Destinations and receiving a manual image review from the second member of Destinations .

Referring to various embodiments of the invention include methods of providing real e feedback of a manual image review. The methods comprising posting an image to a member of Destinations detecting a first key stroke or audio entered by a human image reviewer at the member of Destinations detecting completion of a first word of an image tag at the member of Destinations delivering the first word to a source of the image following delivery of the first word detecting completion of a second word of the image tag at the member of Destinations delivering the second word to the source of the image detection completion of the image tag e.g. by detecting a carriage return and associating the image tag with the image.

Referring to various embodiments of the invention include methods of managing an upgrade of an image review. The methods comprising receiving an image selecting a first member of Destinations posting the image to the first member of Destinations receiving a first manual image review from the first member of Destinations detecting an upgrade request the upgrade request being received from a source of the image or from the first member of Destinations selecting a second member of Destinations posting the image to the second member of Destinations optionally posting the first manual image review to the second member of Destinations in association with the image receiving a second manual image review from the second member of Destinations and delivering the second manual image review and optionally the first manual image review to a source of the image.

Several embodiments are specifically illustrated and or described herein. However it will be appreciated that modifications and variations are covered by the above teachings and within the scope of the appended claims without departing from the spirit and intended scope thereof. For example the images discussed herein are optionally part of a video sequence of a video. Human image reviews may provide image tags at Destinations using audio input. The audio input can be converted to text in real time using audio to text conversion logic disposed on Destinations and or Image Processing System . Image tags are optionally processed by spellcheck logic. As used herein the term Real time means without unnecessary delay such that a user can easily wait for completion.

The embodiments discussed herein are illustrative of the present invention. As these embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to illustrations various modifications or adaptations of the methods and or specific structures described may become apparent to those skilled in the art. All such modifications adaptations or variations that rely upon the teachings of the present invention and through which these teachings have advanced the art are considered to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. Hence these descriptions and drawings should not be considered in a limiting sense as it is understood that the present invention is in no way limited to only the embodiments illustrated.

Computing systems referred to herein e.g. Image Processing System Images Sources and Destinations can comprise an integrated circuit a microprocessor a personal computer a server a distributed computing system a communication device a network device or the like and various combinations of the same. A computing system may also comprise volatile and or non volatile memory such as random access memory RAM dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM magnetic media optical media nano media a hard drive a compact disk a digital versatile disc DVD and or other devices configured for storing analog or digital information such as in a database. The various examples of logic noted above can comprise hardware firmware or software stored on a computer readable medium or combinations thereof. A computer readable medium as used herein expressly excludes paper. Computer implemented steps of the methods noted herein can comprise a set of instructions stored on a computer readable medium that when executed cause the computing system to perform the steps. A computing system programmed to perform particular functions pursuant to instructions from program software is a special purpose computing system for performing those particular functions. Data that is manipulated by a special purpose computing system while performing those particular functions is at least electronically saved in buffers of the computing system physically changing the special purpose computing system from one state to the next with each change to the stored data. The logic discussed herein may include hardware firmware and or software stored on a computer readable medium. This logic may be implemented in an electronic device to produce a special purpose computing system.

