---

title: Beta-turn peptidomimetic cyclic compounds for treating dry eye
abstract: The present invention relates to methods of treating dry eye using β-turn peptidomimetic cyclic compounds or derivatives thereof. The β-turn peptidomimetic cyclic compounds can be used alone, in combination and/or in conjunction with one or more other compounds, molecules or drugs that treat dry eye.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09156882&OS=09156882&RS=09156882
owner: MIMETOGEN PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.
number: 09156882
owner_city: Montreal, Quebec
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20140529
---
This application is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 601 258 which is a continuation application of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 935 217 filed Sep. 28 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 293 713 which is a 371 of International Application No. PCT US2009 002121 filed Apr. 3 2009 which claims the benefit of priority to United States Provisional Application Nos. 61 208 873 filed Feb. 27 2009 and 61 123 036 filed Apr. 4 2008 all of which applications are expressly incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Dry eye also know as keratoconjunctivitis sicca is a multifactorial disease of the tears and ocular surface that results in symptoms of discomfort visual disturbance and tear film instability with potential damage to the ocular surface. It is accompanied by increased osmolarity of the tear film and inflammation of the ocular surface The Definition and Classification of Dry Eye Disease Report of the Definition and Classification Subcommittee of the International Dry Eye Workshop 2007 5 2 75 92 2007 . Dry eye is recognized as a disturbance of the lacrimal functional unit an integrated system comprising the lacrimal glands ocular surface cornea conjunctiva and meibomian glands and lids and the sensory and motor nerves that connect them. The lacrimal functional unit controls the major components of the tear film in a regulated fashion and responds to environmental endocrinological and cortical influences. The unit s function is to preserve the integrity of the tear film the transparency of the cornea and the quality of the image projected onto the retina. Disease or damage to any component of the lacrimal functional unit the afferent sensory nerves the efferent autonomic and motor nerves and the tear secreting glands can destabilize the tear film and lead to ocular surface disease that expresses itself as dry eye.

The major classes of dry eye are aqueous tear deficient dry eye ADDE and evaporative dry eye EDE . ADDE is due to failure of lacrimal tear secretion and this class can be further subdivided to Sjogren syndrome dry eye the lacrimal and salivary glands are targeted by an autoimmune process e.g. rheumatoid arthritis and non Sjogren s syndrome dry eye lacrimal dysfunction but the systemic autoimmune features of Sjogren s syndrome are excluded e.g. age related dry eye . EDE is due to excessive water loss from the exposed ocular surface in the presence of normal lacrimal secretory function. Its causes can be intrinsic due to intrinsic disease affecting lid structures or dynamics e.g. meibomian gland dysfunction or extrinsic where ocular surface disease occurs due to some extrinsic exposure e.g. vitamin A deficiency See The Definition and Classification of Dry Eye Disease Report of the Definition and Classification Subcommittee of the International Dry Eye Workshop 2007 5 2 75 92 2007 .

Dry Eye is one of the most common ocular problems with an estimated prevalence of 4.91 million people in the United States affecting around 3.23 million women and 1.68 million men over the age of fifty The Epidemiology of Dry Eye Disease 5 2 93 107 2007 . Current therapies for dry eye are palliative with a focus on the replacement of tears to reduce symptoms. Over the counter artificial tear formulations are available. In addition a non pharmacological approach for improving aqueous tear film content is punctual tamponade occlusion. However punctual tamponade occlusion carries the risk of reduced tear production clearance and ocular surface sensation. While these palliative therapies have benefits over the short term they have limited utility in long term control therapy for dry eye. RESTASIS cyclosporine A is the first prescription product for dry eye therapy. RESTASIS increases tear production in patients whose tear production is suppressed as a result of ocular inflammation associated with dry eye disease. However there is a need for therapies that have a broader application than anti inflammatory medication.

Several clinical studies have found that topical NGF improves the corneal sensitivity in dry eye and increases the number of conjunctival goblet cell density in a study of dogs with surgically induced dry eye Bonini S. et al. Topical Treatment with Nerve Growth Factor for Neurotrophic Keratitis Ophthalmology 107 1347 1352 2000 . However due to the fact that NGF stimulates neurite sprouting by neural cells one of the side effects of administration of topical NGF is ocular pain Bonini S. et al. Topical Treatment with Nerve Growth Factor for Neurotrophic Keratitis Ophthalmology 107 1347 1352 2000 . In addition NGF has poor pharmacokinetics and bioavailability and the costs for manufacturing are high. A need exists in the art for alternative methods of treating dry eye.

The invention provides a method of treating dry eye in a subject in need thereof comprising administering to said subject an effective amount of a n turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound. In one embodiment the turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound comprises a macrocyclic ring of 13 to 17 carbon atoms. In a more particular embodiment the turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound is represented by structural Formula I 

In another embodiment of the present invention X is O S or NH R R Rand Rare each hydrogen atoms and the macrocyclic ring has 14 15 or 16 ring atoms.

In another embodiment Rand Rare derived from a sequence of different proteinogenic amino acids side chains.

In a particular embodiment the turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound of Formula I is represented by the following Formula 

In one embodiment the invention relates to a method of treating dry eye in a subject in need thereof comprising administering to said subject an effective amount of a turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound represented by the following structural Formula D3 

In another embodiment the invention relates to a method of treating dry eye in a subject in need thereof comprising administering to said subject an effective amount of a turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound represented by Formula 3Aa 

In yet another embodiment the invention relates to a method of treating dry eye in a subject in need thereof comprising administering to said subject an effective amount of a turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound represented by Formula 3Ak 

In one embodiment the invention relates to a method of stimulating mucin secretion in a subject in need thereof comprising administering to said subject an effective amount of a turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound described herein.

The invention further relates to the use of a compound described herein e.g. a turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound for the manufacture of a medicament for treating dry eye in a subject in need of treatment.

The invention further relates to a pharmaceutical composition useful for treating dry eye in a subject in need of treatment. The pharmaceutical composition comprises a compound described herein e.g. turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The present invention relates to methods of treating dry eye in a subject in need thereof comprising administering to said subject a turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound. As used herein a turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound refers to cyclic compounds which mimic the turn region of neurotrophin receptor ligands e.g. NGF NT 3 NT 4 and BDNF . In a particular embodiment the turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound of the present invention can be a neurotrophin tyrosine kinase Trk receptor modulator. In another particular embodiment the turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound can be a p75 receptor modulator. In yet another embodiment the turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound can be both a p75 receptor modulator and a Trk receptor modulator.

In one embodiment the turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound is represented by structural Formula I. In a particular embodiment the turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound is compound D3 or derivatives of compound D3.

In another embodiment the turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound can be a compound selected from the group consisting of 1Ad 3Aa 3Ak 3Ba 3Bg 3Bi 3Ca 3Ce 3Cg 3Ck 1Aa 1Ba 3Ac and 3Ae.

Although the turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound of the present invention can be a Trk receptor modulator compound or a p75 receptor modulator the usefulness of the turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound in treating dry eye can rely on other activities such as modulating the TrkB receptor or any other receptor whose modulation is useful in treating dry eye. In addition the usefulness of the turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound of the present invention in treating dry eye may rely on other modulations of neurotrophin like activities such as e.g. effects on the chemotactic recruitment of leukocytes effects on granulocyte differentiation effects on neutrophils mast cells and eosinophils effects on corneal epithelial cell proliferation and upregulating selective sensory neuropeptides substance P and calcitonin gene related peptide.

As used herein a Trk receptor modulator compound is a TrkA receptor agonist TrkC receptor agonist or a compound that is both a TrkA receptor agonist and a TrkC receptor agonist.

Neurotrophins NTFs are a family of dimeric proteins that regulate the proliferation survival and differentiation of neurons in all vertebrate species. The NTFs include Nerve Growth Factor NGF Brain Derived Neurotrophic Factor BDNF Neurotrophin 3 NT 3 and Neurotrophin 4 NT 4 . These NTFs bind to two transmembrane receptors the high affinity receptor family tyrosine kinase Trk TrkA Trk B and Trk C K 10 100 M and the p75 receptor K 1 nM . The Trk family receptor ligands are quite selective e.g. NGF binds TrkA BDNF binds TrkB and NT 3 binds mainly TrkC .

Neurotrophins and their receptors have been identified in conjunctival goblet cells CGCs Rios J. D. et al. Role of Neurotrophins and Neurotrophin Receptors in Rat Conjunctival Goblet Cell Secretion and Proliferation 48 1543 1551 2007 . CGCs are the primary source of large soluble mucins in the tear film. These mucins provide a physical and chemical barrier that protects the cornea and conjunctiva from exogenous agents bacterial or chemical and facilitates the occurrence of a smooth refractive surface necessary for clear vision.

In one embodiment the turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound comprises a macrocyclic ring of 13 to 17 carbon atoms. In a more particular embodiment the turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound is represented by structural Formula I 

The twenty amino acid side chain substituents include the side chains of alanine cysteine aspartic acid glutamic acid phenylanine glycine histidine isoleucine lysine leucine methionine asparagine proline glutamine arginine serine threonine valine tryptophan and tyrosine. For example the side chain of glutamic acid is

In another embodiment of the present invention X is O S or NH R R Rand Rare each hydrogen atoms and the macrocyclic ring has 14 15 or 16 ring atoms.

In another embodiment R and Rare derived from a sequence of different protein amino acids side chains.

In a particular embodiment the n turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound is D3 see Maliartchouk et al. 57 2 385 391 2000 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirely and U.S. Pat. No. 6 881 719 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirely or derivatives of D3. A number of derivatives of D3 and other compounds of Formula I are envisioned for use in the methods of the invention and include simple modifications like biotinylated forms and molecules wherein two such units are linked by dimers. Other derivatives of D3 and other compounds of Formula I include side chains R Rhaving amino acid side chain substituents found in the twenty protein amino acids.

The side chains typical of the protein amino acids e.g. Arg Trp His allow for the formation design of a diversity of structures that are easily generated derivatives of D3 and other compounds of Formula I and they can include many types of functional groups.

The substituent s Y may be hydrogen or one or two aromatic substituents for example nitro amino halo alkyl for example alkyl of 1 to 6 preferably 1 to 4 carbon atoms and aryl for example phenyl or naphthyl. The alkyl and aryl substituents Y may be unsubstituted or substituted suitable substituents being nitro and alkyl of 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Y may also be derivatized with a functional group for example biotin. The group X may be any nucleophilic atom like O N S P Se but also others such as C or may be an alkylene radical typically of 1 to 6 carbon atoms for example methylene SO SOor NH. The point of connection could be ortho or meta to the benzoyl carbonyl. Permissible values of n are 0 1 2 3 4 and 5. The linking side chain that incorporates X is aliphatic as indicated in structure I .

The side chain alkyl groups R R R R R and Rcan be varied in many ways to enhance the biological activities of these compounds. Typically R R R and Rare amino acid side chain substituents found in the twenty protein amino acids for example the side chains of glutamic acid lysine ornithine and threonine in either enantiomeric configuration. If the Rsubstituent is an amino acid side chain the other substituent on that carbon R will typically be hydrogen but could also be methyl ethyl or benzyl. Alternatively Rand Rtogether with their intervening atoms can be joined to give cyclopropane cyclobutane cyclopentane and cyclohexane residues. Rand Rare related in the same way as Rand Ras described above. That is one of them will be an amino acid side chain with the other of these two substituents being hydrogen in most cases but could also be methyl ethyl propyl or benzyl. In addition Rand Rtogether with the intervening atoms can be joined to give cyclopropane cyclobutane cyclopentane and cyclohexane residues.

There is much scope for variation in Rand Rwith the most common substituent at these positions being hydrogen or methyl. Those substituents can also be designed to correspond to one of the side chains of the twenty protein amino acids in particular methyl.

Side chains found to be particularly conducive to biological activities are Rand Ras side chains of lysine glutamic acid tyrosine iso leucine asparagine and threonine R R R and Ras hydrogen. One or more of the side chains are selected especially to correspond to side chains within the turn regions of NGF.

In general the macrocyclic compounds have 13 to 16 membered rings where the X substituent is O N S SO or SO.

In another embodiment the turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound is selected from the group consisting of 1Ad 3Aa 3Ak 3Ba 3Bg 3Bi 3Ca 3Ce 3Cg 3Ck 1Aa 1Ba 3Ac and 3 Ae.

In yet another embodiment the turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound is a compound comprising a cyclic amino ether or sulfide scaffold see with various substituents e.g. amine guanidine or methylsulfonamide see and Rand Rgroups comprising dipeptide amino acid fragments see . See also .

In one embodiment the invention relates to a method of stimulating mucin secretion in a subject in need thereof comprising administering to said subject an effective amount of a turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound described herein.

The compound of the present invention is present in an effective amount. As used herein the term effective amount refers to an amount which when administered in a proper dosing regimen is sufficient to treat therapeutically or prophylactically the target disorder. For example and effective amount is sufficient to reduce or ameliorate the severity duration or progression of the disorder being treated prevent the advancement of the disorder being treated cause the regression of the disorder being treated or enhance or improve the prophylactic or therapeutic effect s of another therapy.

As used herein dry eye is a wide concept which is intended to include aqueous tear deficient dry eye evaporative dry eye menopausal associated dry eye hypolacrimation tear deficiency xerophthalmia Sjogren s syndrome keratoconjunctivitis sicca Stevens Johnson syndrome ocular pemphigoid blepharitis marginal lid closure failure and sensory nerve paralysis allergic conjunctivitis associated dry eye post viral conjunctivitis dry eye post cataract surgery dry eye chronic dry eye after laser in situ keratomileusis LASIK VDT operation associated dry eye and contact lens wearing associated dry eye age related dry eye corneal injury infection Riley Day syndrome congenital alacrima nutritional disorders or deficiencies including vitamin pharmacologic side effects eye stress and glandular and tissue destruction environmental exposure to smog smoke excessively dry air airborne particulates autoimmune and other immunodeficient disorders and comatose patients rendered unable to blink. In addition dry eye includes diseases caused by dry eye such as keratoconjunctival epithelial lesion corneal epithelial sores corneal ulcers such as ulcers of corneal stromal layer and ocular infectious disease.

Subject as used herein refers to animals such as mammals including but not limited to primates e.g. humans cows sheep goats horses pigs dogs cats rabbits guinea pigs rats mice or other bovine ovine equine canine feline rodent or murine species. In one embodiment the subject is a human.

The term treating includes both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic treatment reducing the likelihood of development . The term means decrease suppress attenuate diminish arrest or stabilize the development or progression of a disease e.g. a disease or disorder delineated herein lessen the severity of the disease or improve the symptoms associated with the disease.

As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to a salt of the administered compounds prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acids including inorganic acids and organic acids thereof. Examples of such inorganic acids are hydrochloric hydrobromic hydroiodic nitric sulfuric and phosphoric. Appropriate organic acids may be selected for example from aliphatic aromatic carboxylic and sulfonic classes of organic acids examples of which are formic acetic propionic succinic camphorsulfonic citric fumaric gluconic isethionic lactic malic mucic tartaric para toluenesulfonic glycolic glucuronic maleic furoic glutamic benzoic anthranilic salicylic phenylacetic mandelic embonic pamoic methanesulfonic ethanesulfonic pantothenic benzenesulfonic besylate stearic sulfanilic alginic galacturonic and the like.

The invention further relates to pharmaceutical compositions for use in treating dry eye in a subject in need of treatment. The pharmaceutical composition comprises one or more turn peptidomimetic cyclic compounds of the present invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers can also contain inert ingredients which do not interact with the regulatory active substances in the compositions. Standard pharmaceutical formulation techniques can be employed such as those described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers for parenteral administration include for example sterile water physiological saline bacteriostatic saline saline containing about 0.9 mg ml benzyl alcohol phosphate buffered saline Hank s solution Ringer s lactate dextrose ethanol surfactants such as glycerol or excipients.

In a further embodiment the pharmaceutical composition further comprises an i.e. one or more additional therapeutic agent. An additional therapeutic agent suitable for use in the methods and pharmaceutical compositions described herein can be but is not limited to for example anti inflammatory agents e.g. RESTASIS Allergan mucin stimulants e.g. Diquafasol Inspire Pharmaceuticals 15 S HETE Alcon rebamipide Otsuka and ecabet ISTA hormonal agents and lacrimal gland stimulants e.g. androgen tears Allergan and artificial tears.

The composition can be formulated for topical ophthalmic application for example in the form of solutions ointments creams lotions eye ointments and most preferably eye drops or eye gels and can contain the appropriate conventional additives including for example preservatives solvents to assist drug penetration and emollients in ointments and creams. Such topical formulations can contain compatible conventional carriers for example cream or ointment bases and ethanol or oleyl alcohol for lotions.

Alternatively the active compounds may be applied to the eye via liposomes. Further the active compounds may be infused into the tear film via a pump catheter system. Another embodiment of the present invention involves the active compound contained within a continuous or selective release device for example membranes such as but not limited to those employed in the pilocarpine OCUSERT System Alza Corp. Palo Alto Calif. . As an additional embodiment the active compounds can be contained within carried by or attached to contact lenses which are placed on the eye. Another embodiment of the present invention involves the active compound contained within a swab or sponge which can be applied to the ocular surface. Another embodiment of the present invention involves the active compound contained within a liquid spray which can be applied to the ocular surface. Another embodiment of the present invention involves an injection of the active compound directly into the lacrimal tissues or onto the eye surface.

When the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention for treating dry eye is used as an ophthalmic solution it is provided in any dosage form which is used for ophthalmic solution for example an aqueous eye drop such as aqueous ophthalmic solution aqueous suspended ophthalmic solution viscous ophthalmic solution and solubilized ophthalmic solution or a non aqueous ophthalmic solution such as non aqueous ophthalmic solution and non aqueous suspended ophthalmic solution. Among these the aqueous ophthalmic solution is preferable.

When the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention for treating dry eye is prepared into an aqueous ophthalmic solution various additives normally used in the aqueous ophthalmic solution are conveniently contained therein as long as the object of the present invention is not adversely affected. Examples of such the additives include buffers isotonizing agents preservatives solubilizers stabilizers pH adjusting agents thickeners and chelating agents.

The buffers may be selected from but not limited by the group comprising a phosphate buffer a borate buffer a citrate buffer a tartrate buffer an acetate buffer for example sodium acetate and an amino acid.

The isotonizing agents may be selected from but not limited by the group comprising sugars such as sorbitol glucose and mannitol polyhydric alcohols such as glycerin polyethylene glycol and polypropylene glycol and salts such as sodium chloride.

The preservatives may be selected from but not limited by the group comprising benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride alkyl paraoxybenzoates such as methyl paraoxybenzoate and ethyl paraoxybenzoate benzyl alcohol phenethyl alcohol sorbic acid and salts thereof thimerosal and chlorobutanol.

The solubilizers stabilizers may be selected from but not limited by the group comprising cyclodextrin and derivatives thereof water soluble polymers such as poly vinylpyrrolidone and surfactants such as polysorbate 80 trade name Tween 80 .

The pH adjusting agents may be selected from but not limited by the group comprising hydrochloric acid acetic acid phosphoric acid sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide and ammonium hydroxide.

The thickeners may be selected from but not limited by the group comprising hydroxyethylcellulose hydroxypropylcellulose methylcellulose hydroxypropylmethylcellulose and carboxymethylcellulose and salts thereof.

The chelating agents may be selected from but not limited by the group comprising sodium edetate sodium citrate and sodium condensed phosphate.

When the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention for treating dry eye is prepared into an ophthalmic ointment a base compound must be present. The base of the ophthalmic ointment may be selected from but not limited by the group comprising purified lanolin VASELINE plastibase liquid paraffin and polyethylene glycol.

Alternatively the composition of the invention can be formulated for oral administration using pharmaceutically acceptable tableting excipients including lactose microcrystalline cellulose corn starch stearic acid or the like can be used. Oral administration can also comprise a liquid composition formulated in water glycols oils alcohols or the like.

When the methods of the invention include coadministration coadministration refers to administration of a first amount of a turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a second amount of at least one agent selected from the group consisting of anti inflammatory agents e.g. RESTASIS Allergan mucin stimulants e.g. Diquafasol Inspire Pharmaceuticals 15 S HETE Alcon rebamipide Otsuka and ecabet ISTA hormonal agents and lacrimal gland stimulants e.g. androgen tears Allergan and artificial tears wherein the first and second amounts together comprise an effective amount to treat dry eye in a subject in need of treatment. Coadministration encompasses administration of the first and second amounts of the compounds of the coadministration in an essentially simultaneous manner such as in a single pharmaceutical composition or in multiple pharmaceutical compositions. In addition such coadministration also encompasses use of each compound in a sequential manner in either order. When coadministration involves the separate administration of the first amount of the turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a second amount of at least one agent selected from the group consisting of anti inflammatory agents such as for example RESTASIS Allergan mucin stimulants such as for example Diquafasol Inspire Pharmaceuticals 15 S HETE Alcon rebamipide Otsuka and ecabet ISTA hormonal agents and lacrimal gland stimulants such as for example androgen tears Allergan and artificial tears the compounds are administered sufficiently close in time to have the desired therapeutic effect. For example the period of time between each administration which can result in the desired therapeutic effect can range from minutes to hours and can be determined taking into account the properties of each compound such as potency solubility bioavailability plasma half life and kinetic profile.

An effective amount of a turn peptidomimetic cyclic compound will depend on the age sex and weight of the patient the current medical condition of the patient and the nature of the dry eye disease being treated. The skilled artisan will be able to determine appropriate dosages depending on these and other factors. For example when the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention is used as an ophthalmic solution for treating dry eye in a subject in need thereof it is desirable that an aqueous solution eye drop contain an active ingredient of a compound of the present invention in an amount of approximately 0.001 to 2.5 w v such as from 0.02 to 2.0 w v for example from about 0.03 to 1.5 w v for example from about 0.05 to 1.0 w v . As used herein weight volume w v means specific mass of solute in a specific final volume e.g. g ml . When administered the compounds and compositions of this invention can be given once daily or with multiple daily doses such as twice per day three times per day and four times per day. In a particularly preferred embodiment the compound and compositions of the present invention can be given in a dose of one to five drops for example one drop two drops three drops four drops or five drops.

When the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention is used as an ocular ointment it is desirable that an ocular ointment contain an active ingredient of a compound of the present invention in an amount of approximately 0.001 to 2.5 w w such as from 0.02 to 2.0 w w for example from about 0.03 to 1.5 w w for example from about 0.05 to 1.0 w w . As used herein weight weight w w means weight of solute in final weight of the solution e.g. g g. When administered the compounds and compositions of this invention maybe given once daily or with multiple daily doses such as twice per day three times per day and four times per day.

The teachings of all patents published applications and references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to example embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims.

The rat inferior conjunctival tissue of Male Sprague Dawley rats n 4 weighing between 250 and 300 g was harvested.

Similar to the cell culture and assay procedures described in Rios J. D. et al. Role of Neurotrophins and Neurotrophin Receptors in Rat Conjunctival Goblet Cell Secretion and Proliferation 48 1543 1551 2007 explant cultures were established from rat inferior conjunctival tissue. Cells derived from the explants were grown in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum FBS and penicillin 100 U mL streptomycin 100 m mL at 37 C. in a humidified 5 CO atmosphere for seventy two hours. Contaminating nongoblet cells were removed by scraping them from the plate. During this time goblet cells migrated from the pieces and began to proliferate. After one week the goblet cells were trypsinized and plated in twenty four well culture plates with RPMI 1640 media supplemented with 10 FBS.

To measure glycoconjugate secretion the conjunctival goblet cells were grown to confluence and were serum deprived for two hours before addition of nerve growth factor NGF carbachol Cch compound D3 compound 3Aa and compound 3Ak for two hours. Compounds D3 3Aa and 3Ak were administered at concentrations of 30 m micromolar 10 M 1 M and 0.3 M. The vehicle used to dissolve the compounds dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO was also included. DMSO was used as the basal control for the 30 M concentration of compound which was at 0.1 v v . The cholinergic agonist carbachol Cch added at 100 M micromolar was a positive control for glycoconjugate secretion. The amount of glycoconjugate secreted into the media was measured by enzyme linked lectin assay ELLA . The media were collected and analyzed for amount of the lectin detectable glycoconjugates including mucins. The amount of secretion was measured by using the lectin UEA I which is specific for rat conjunctival goblet cell mucins. Biotinylated UEA I lectin and alkaline phosphatase labeled streptavidin were used as described in Rios J. D. et al. Role of Neurotrophins and Neurotrophin Receptors in Rat Conjunctival Goblet Cell Secretion and Proliferation 48 1543 1551 2007 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference. The cells were removed and sonicated and the cell homogenate was analyzed for the total amount of protein by using the Bradford protein assay. This assay revealed that there were equal amounts of protein in each well. Glycoconjugate secretion was expressed as the increase x fold over basal.

Conjunctival goblet cells were grown to subconfluence in 24 well culture plates and then serum deprived for twenty four hours. Cells were incubated with or without increasing concentrations of compound D3 compound 3Aa and compound 3Ak in serum free RPMI supplemented with 0.5 BSA as a protein source for twenty four hours . Compounds D3 3Aa and 3Ak were administered at concentrations of 30 M micromolar 10 M 1 M and 0.3 M. RPMI supplemented with 10 FBS was used as the positive control in cell proliferation studies. CGC proliferation was determined with a colorimetric nonradioactive WST 8 proliferation assay that measures the number of cells. This procedure employs the 2 2 methoxy 4 nitrophenyl 3 4 nitrophenyl 5 2 4 disulfophenyl 2H tetrazolium monosodium salt WST 8 which is cleaved by viable growing mitochondria to form a dark blue formazan product that is detected by a fluorescence ELISA reader Bio Tek Winooski Vt. at 460 nm.

Data for CGC glycoconjugate secretion and proliferation were expressed as the increase x fold above basal value which was standardized to 1.0. For example for the 0.3 M micromolar 1 M and 10 M doses the CGC glycoconjugate secretion and proliferation were expressed as test compound over untreated cells. For the 30 M dose the CGC glycoconjugate secretion and proliferation were expressed as test compound over DMSO untreated cells. Results are expressed as the mean sem.

CGC glycoconjugate secretion 1.3 0.1 fold above basal. Cch a known goblet cell agonist increased CGC glycoconjugate secretion 1.3 0.3 fold above basal.

Compound D3 increased CGC glycoconjugate secretion and indicated a concentration dependent trend. Compound D3 increased CGC gycoconjugate secretion as follows 1.7 0.7 fold above basal 30 M 1.6 0.3 fold above basal 10 M 1.6 0.2 fold above basal 1 M and 1.3 0.2 fold above basal 0.3 M .

Compound 3Aa increased CGC glycoconjugate secretion as follows 2.1 0.7 fold above basal 30 M 1.7 0.4 fold above basal 10 M 1.6 0.3 fold above basal 1 M and 2.1 0.3 fold above basal 0.3 M . Compound 3Aa showed a greater increase in CGC glycoconjugate secretion as compared to NGF and Cch.

Compound 3Ak did not show as robust an effect as compounds D3 and 3Aa but did demonstrate activity. The results for compound 3Ak CGC glycoconjugate secretion are as follows 1.1 0.3 fold above basal 30 M 1.2 0.1 fold above basal 10 M 1.1 0.3 fold above basal 1 M and 1.4 0.3 fold above basal 0.3

The results for the cell proliferation are shown in . In the proliferation assay none of the compounds at any concentration tested induced goblet cell proliferation after 24 hours of incubation. As controls fetal bovine serum 10 FBS increased CGC proliferation 3.4 1.0 fold above basal and NGF increased CGC proliferation 1.6 0.3 fold above basal.

The turn peptidomimetic cyclic compounds tested stimulated mucin secretion and therefore can be useful in the method of treating dry eye disease in a subject in need thereof.

The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of compound D3 in glycoconjugate secretion and proliferation of cultured rat conjunctival goblet cells and to investigate the signal transduction pathway compound D3 used to stimulate secretion.

Six to eight week old male Sprague Dawley rats were obtained from Charles River Wilmington Mass. . Animals were housed 2 per cage under constant light conditions 12 h light 12 h dark cycle room temperature 22 1 C. and relative humidity 40 70 . All procedures in this study complied with McGill University s animal welfare policies and were approved by the Lady Davis Research Institute LDI Animal Care and Use Committee. The standards for animal care and use conform with or exceed those defined in the Canadian Council on Animal Care CCAC .

Animals were anaesthetized before euthanasia in an Isofluorane 99.9 USB Abraxis Bioscience Richmond Hill Ont chamber. Animals were euthanized by lethal dose of sodium pentobarbital 2 mL 0.4 kg or 300 mg kg Ceva Sante Animale Libourne France . Conjunctival tissue more specifically the nictitating membranes and formix were excised and immediately placed into Hanks balanced salt solution containing 3 penicillin streptomycin 300 ug mL . The formix was identified as the band running along the most posterior part of the fold at the junction of the bulbar and palpebral conjunctiva. The lower nasal portion of the formix was grasped and lifted and it was cut from the conjunctiva.

RPMI 1640 culture medium fetal bovine serum FBS penicillin streptomycin and Hank s balanced salt solution were obtained from Wisent St. Bruno Quebec . L glutamine and 0.05 trypsin EDTA were from Gibco Grand Island N.Y. . Tissue culture flasks and culture dishes were from Corning Lowell Mass. and Laboratory Tek chamber slides were from Nunc Rochester N.Y. .

The culturing of conjunctival goblet cells from explant cultures was as previously described in Shatos M. et al. Isolation Characterization and Propagation of Rat Conjunctival Goblet Cells In Vitro IOVS 42 1455 1464 2001 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference. The tissue was finely minced and individual pieces were anchored onto scored 6 well cultures dishes in 0.5 mL of complete RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10 FBS 2 mM glutamine and 100 g mL penicillin streptomycin and incubated at 37 C. in a humidified 5 CO atmosphere. Explant cultures were refed every 2 days. Within a few days goblet cells migrated from the pieces and began to proliferate. After approximately one week the tissue plugs were removed and the goblet cells were allowed to grow to confluence. Cells were passaged once by trypsinization of adherent cells with 0.05 trypsin 0.53 mM EDTA pH 7.4 and plated in 8 well Laboratory Tek chamber slides histochemistry or in 96 well proliferation 24 well secretion or 6 well western blots culture plates with complete RPMI 1640 media.

Cells were fixed and processed for Periodic Acid Schiff PAS staining and counterstained with Hematoxylin Solution Gill No. 3 kit Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. according to the manufacturers instructions. All procedures were performed at room temperature. Briefly cells were fixed for 15 minutes in methanol. Slides were rinsed in tap water for 1 minute stained in Periodic Acid Solution for 5 minutes rinsed 5 times in distilled water immersed in Schiff s reagent for 15 minutes washed in tap water for 5 minutes stained in Hematoxylin Solution for 90 seconds rinsed in tap water for 15 30 seconds air dried and mounted in Vectamount Vector Labs Burlingame Calif. . Slides were examined and photographed with a Leica DM LB 2 microscope equipped with a Leica DFC480 camera.

Compound D3 Hydrochloride salt lot number 12 95 manufactured by Mimetogen Pharmaceuticals Montreal Quebec Canada was dissolved in saline to give a 10 mM stock solution.

NGF recombinant human is a 3.16 mg mL solution in buffer 20 mM sodium acetate 136 mM sodium chloride pH 5.5 and stored refrigerated 2 8 C. . The biological activity of this solution was tested for its ability to cause differentiation of PC 12 cells at nanomolar concentrations.

Phorbol 12 myristate 13 acetate PMA Sigma St. Louis Mo. was prepared as a 10 mg mL 16.2 mM stock solution in DMSO.

Prior to the experiments test articles were diluted in media for final concentrations as described in the figures. Basal cultures were incubated with the saline vehicle control.

As early as 2 days after establishment of the tissue plug cells started to grow out from the tissue which continue to grow so that by day 9 adherent cells are visible all around the tissue . On higher magnification single cells adhering to the tissue culture well exhibit cobblestone morphology and contain tiny translucent droplets in cytoplasmic vesicles . Often as cells proliferated in culture tiny droplets were observed to form on the surface of the goblet cells suggestive of a mucus like secretory product open arrows . As these droplet containing cells grew in culture the droplets merged into pools which increased in size and number closed arrow . The results are similar to previously published results Shatos M. et al. Isolation Characterization and Propagation of Rat Conjunctival Goblet Cells In Vitro IOVS 42 1455 1464 2001 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference .

It was determined that these cells have positive reactivity to PAS indicating that these cells were associated with a neutral type of mucin secretion product . Upon higher magnification 100 many cytoplasmic peri nuclear vesicles were observed open arrow . On examination several of these vesicles stained intensely with PAS indicating the presence of neutral pink to red glycoconjugates within secretory granules and C closed arrows . The cells are counterstained blue with Heamatoxylin Eosin stain.

As discussed in detail below compound D3 increased mucin secretion in conjunctival goblet cells with the greatest increase seen at the 2 M dose. In addition compound D3 at concentrations up to 100 M did not stimulate goblet cell proliferation by day 4 with no differences among the doses. Lastly treatment of conjunctival goblet cells for five minutes with compound D3 increased mitogen activated protein kinase MAPK phosphorylation.

To measure cell secretion goblet cells were grown to confluence and then serum depleted for 2 hours prior to stimulation. Cells were incubated with compound D3 at 2 10 and 50 M NGF at 0.1 1 and 10 nM and PMA at 0.1 1 and 10 nM in serum free RPMI for 2 hours. Goblet cell secretion was measured using an enzyme linked lectin assay ELLA . Briefly an aliquot of the cell culture supernatant was transferred to a 96 well polystyrene microtiter plate in triplicate Corning Life Sciences 2592 Fisher Scientific Nepean Ont . A dilution series of bovine submaxillary mucin BSM Sigma St. Louis Mo. was included on each plate as the standard standard curve data and data showing that detection of BSM is linear between 0.003 and 0.1 g not shown . The plates were coated by evaporation at 37 C. overnight. After the plates were washed three times with wash buffer PBS containing 0.3 BSA 0.05 Tween 20 then blocked for nonspecific binding with PBS containing 3 BSA and 0.05 Tween 20 at 37 C. for 1 hour. The wells were rinsed three times in wash buffer and then incubated in 2 g mL biotinylated UEA 1 diluted in wash buffer Vector Labs Burlingame Calif. at 37 C. for 1 hour. The wells were rinsed three times in wash buffer and then incubated in 1 g mL HRP conjugated neutravidin diluted in wash buffer Pierce Rockford Ill. at 37 C. for 1 hour. After the wells were rinsed three times in wash buffer the color development was performed with TMB Promega Madison Wis. and stopped with 0.5N Sulfuric acid. The absorbance was read at 450 nm on a Benchmark Plus Biorad . The goblet cells remaining in the culture wells were either scraped in RIPA buffer 1 TritonX 100 20 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 150 mM NaCl 1.5 mM MgCl 1 Na deoxycholate 1 mM EGTA 1 mM EDTA 0.1 SDS 10 glycerol 1 mM Na vanadate 10 mM Na fluoride 10 mM Na pyrophosphate complete mini EDTA free protease inhibitors Roche Applied Science Indianapolis Ind. or 1M Tris buffer pH 7.5 collected and sonicated. The amount of protein in the cell homogenate was analyzed using the Bradford protein assay kit using a dilution series of bovine serum albumin BSA as the standard BioRad Montreal PQ . Glycoconjugate secretion was normalized to total protein in the homogenate. Data was then expressed as fold increase above basal.

To determine whether compound D3 stimulates goblet cell mucin secretion cultured passaged goblet cells were incubated for 2 hours in the presence of compound D3 2 10 and 50 M or NGF 0.1 1 and 10 nM the positive control Rios J. et al. Role of Neurotrophins and Neurotrophin Receptors in Rat Conjunctival Goblet Cell Secretion and Proliferation IOVS 48 1543 1551 2007 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference or PMA 0.1 1 and 10 nM another positive control Dartt D. et al. Regulation of Conjunctival Goblet Cell Secretion by Ca2 and Protein Kinase C. Exp Eye Res 71 619 628 2000 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference . An ELLA determined the amount of high molecular weight glycoproteins secreted into the medium using the biotinylated lectin UEA 1 as previously described in Rios J. et al. Immunolocalization of Muscarinic and VIP Receptor Subtypes and Their Role in Stimulating Goblet Cell Secretion IOVS 40 1102 1111 1999 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference . The raw data of mucin secretion from cultured goblet cells from four independent rats are presented in Table 1.

There was little difference in mucin secretion from rat to rat with basal secretion ranging between 2.0 and 9.9 g glycoconjugate mg protein. The positive control NGF increased mucin secretion in a dose dependent manner up to 1.55 0.18 fold at 10 nM Table 2 . The other positive control PMA increased mucin secretion by 1.4 fold which was not dose dependent. Compound D3 increased mucin secretion the greatest increase was seen at 2 M 1.49 0.33 fold . None of the treatments were statistically significant from each other P 0.7429 . A graphical representation of the data is presented in .

Cell proliferation was measured using Alamar Blue from Biosource Invitrogen Corporation Carlsbad Calif. according to the manufacture s protocol. Cultured goblet cells from two rats were serum starved in serum free RPMI supplemented with 0.5 BSA for 24 hrs prior to the addition of FBS 10 the positive control NGF 10 pM to 10 nM compound D3 0.1 to 100 M or NGF 10 pM to 10 nM in the presence of 10 or 100 M MIM D3 and further incubated at 37 C. in a humidified 5 CO atmosphere. After 24 hours 10 Alamar Blue was added for 6 hours and the absorbance was read at 570 and 600 nm on a Benchmark Plus Biorad . The percentage of Alamar Blue reduction was calculated according to the manufacture s instructions. The Alamar Blue containing plates were further incubated at 37 C. for 48 72 and 96 hours and the plates reread each day.

Goblet cell proliferation was measured in the presence of 10 FBS for up to four days. A statistically significant increase in proliferation was obtained over time with 10 FBS 247 2 fold at day 3 P

The activation of p42 44 MAPK was examined using Western blot techniques. Goblet cells were serum starved in serum free RPMI for 4 6 hrs prior to the addition of PMA 100 nM NGF 1 or 10 nM or MIM D3 10 or 50 M for 5 minutes at 37 C. After cells were rinsed once in cold PBS scraped in 100 L of 1 SDS PAGE sample buffer 62.5 mM Tris HCl pH 6.8 10 glycerol 2 SDS 5 mercaptoethanol 0.02 mg mL bromophenol blue and sonicated for 20 minutes. The homogenates were centrifuged at 14 900 g for 15 min at 4 C. Proteins in a 30 4 aliquot of the supernatant were separated by SDS PAGE 8 acrylamide gels and transferred to nitrocellulose membranes. The membranes were blocked for 2 hours in 5 non fat dried milk in buffer containing 20 mM Tris HCl pH 8.0 150 mM NaCl and 0.01 Tween 20 TBST . The blots were then probed with an antibody directed against the phosphorylated form of MAPK1 2 Calbiochem San Diego Calif. at 0.1 g mL in TBST containing 5 BSA overnight at 4 C. followed by a 1 hour incubation in HRP conjugated secondary anti mouse antibody Sigma St. Louis Mo. at room temperature in TBST containing 5 non fat dried milk. Immunoreactive bands were visualized using the enhanced chemiluminescence method Perkin Elmer Waltham Mass. . The blots were stripped at 55 C. for 30 minutes in stripping buffer 62.5 mM Tris HCl pH 6.8 2 SDS 0.1M 13 mercaptoethanol followed by re probing with an antibody directed against actin 1 5000 dilution Sigma St. Louis Mo. in TBST containing 5 non fat dried milk and incubation in HRP conjugated secondary anti rabbit antibody. The immunoreactive bands were digitally scanned on an EPSON scanner and analyzed using NIH ImageJ v1.38x. The amount of phosphorylated MAPK in each sample was standardized to the amount of total actin protein in the sample.

To determine if compound D3 and NGF induced glycoconjugates secretion via activation of the MAPK pathway cultured goblet cells from 3 independent rats were stimulated by 10 and 50 M compound D3 1 and 10 nM NGF or PMA 100 nM the positive control for 5 minutes and MAPK activity was measured by western blot analysis. A representative western blot from 3 independent rat goblet cell cultures is shown in and the quantification is shown in . There was a statistically significant effect of treatment on MAPK activation P

Data are expressed as the increase x fold above basal value which was standardized to 1.0. Results are expressed as the mean SEM. Data are analyzed by one way ANOVA using GraphPad Prism v4.0c GraphPad Software Inc. La Jolla Calif. . P

The purpose of this study was to use the scopolamine model of dry eye to study the efficacy of compound D3. The scopolamine model was chosen based on earlier research comparing a controlled environment chamber CEC to the scopolamine model of dry eye.

Male Sprague Dawley rats weighing between 300 g and 350 g were obtained from Charles River Wilmington Mass. . Animals were housed in animal quarters under constant room temperature 22 1 C. light conditions 12 h light 12 h dark cycle and humidity 40 60 . Animals were anaesthetized before the surgical experiment and clinical examination with isofluorane.

Dry eye was induced using scopolamine Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. which was continuously and systemically delivered to the animals via an osmotic pump 2mL4 Alzet CedarLane Burlington Ontario filled with scopolamine and implanted subcutaneously in the mid dorsal area between the scapulae. The wound was closed with 2 3 wound clips. After the surgery and again the next day the animals were subcutaneously injected with Carprofen 0.5 mg 100 g a non steroidal anti inflammatory drug and potent long acting analgesic in rodents. Animals were anaesthetized before the surgical pump implantation and before all clinical endpoint testing in an Isofluorane 99.9 USP Abraxis Bioscience Richmond Hill Ontario chamber. Scopolamine was delivered at 12.5 mg day and for technical reasons the data was evaluated at day 14.

The sterile solution of 0.175 g mL of scopolamine hyrdobromide Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. was prepared in saline 0.9 and filtered through a 0.22 um syringe end filter Millex GC Millipore Corp. Bedford Mass. . The 2ML4 Alzet pumps were filled with 2 mL of 0.175 g mL scopolamine solution according to the manufacturer s instructions.

As discussed in detail below the group treated with topical 1 compound D3 on day eight had a significant reduction p

There were no mortalities but there were two morbidities one in Group 2 and one in Group 3 in which the incision wound sites were reopened due to chewing and the pumps exposed. The clinical sign data was excluded for these two animals. Mild to severe ocular irritation was observed in all scopolamine treated animals Groups 2 4 from day two onward. Most scopolamine treated animals eyes showed conjunctival congestion swelling and conjunctival bloody discharge. Conjunctival congestion and bloody discharge usually resolved. However the conjunctival swelling continued throughout the study. Ocular irritation was observed during the dosing of the animals even under anesthesia.

Pre treatment mean body weight was approximately 350 g and was not statistically different among groups P 0.3999 . Mean body weight in the untreated control groups Group 1 increased to approximately 420 g by Day 14. In the three groups receiving scopolamine Group 2 Group 4 mean body weight increased to approximately 375 g. There was a statistically significant effect of treatment to decrease body weight starting on Day 7 continuing through Day 14 P 0.0042 .

The clinical signs of corneal dryness were evaluated by fluorescein impregnation of the cornea. A drop of a 1 fluorescein sodium Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. solution made up in sterile saline was instilled in the conjunctival sac of the anaesthetized animal. The cornea was thereafter observed under blue light using a Portable Slit Lamp ophthalmoscope with blue cobalt filter Reichert Opthalmic Instruments Depew N.Y. three minutes after fluorescein instillation. For each animal the punctate fluorescent positive area of the ocular surface was recorded in a blinded fashion. The score of this test was graded from 0 to 4 where 0 no staining 1 75 surface staining.

As shown in the control group na ve showed almost complete absence of corneal fluorescein staining with a mean score Score SD of 0.8 0.1. The untreated dry eye group scopolamine alone showed a significant degree of punctate and diffuse corneal fluorescein staining with a mean score of 2.3 0.3 on day fourteen post scopolamine pump implantation. The group treated with topical saline on day eight post scopolamine pump implantation also showed a significant degree of corneal fluorescein staining on day fourteen similar to the untreated dry eye group with a mean score of 2.9 0.3. The group treated with topical 1 compound D3 on day eight had a significant reduction p0.05 .

Tear production was measured with Zone Quick standardized phenol red threads FCI Ophthalmics Marshfield Hills Mass. on animals lightly sedated with Isoflurane. The threads were inserted in the lateral lower canthus and left in place for thirty seconds. The length of the stained moistened portion of the thread was measured in millimeters using the scale provided with the threads to an accuracy of 1 mm. Schirmer testing was routinely combined with tear fluorescein clearance as described in the section below.

At baseline the mean pre treatment Schirmer score for all groups was 13.7 4.2 mm P 0.6943 . After six days scopolamine treated animals had lower Schirmer scores i.e. less tears than untreated controls 9.2 2.5 mm compared to 16.0 5.4 mm P

Tear fluorescein clearance was evaluated as described for humans Afonso A A. et al. Correlation of Tear Fluorescein Clearance and Schirmer Test Scores with Ocular Irritation Symptoms Ophthalmology 106 803 810 1999 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference and modified for rats Chen W. et al. Keratoconjunctivitis Sicca Modifies Epithelial Stem Cell Proliferation Kinetics in Conjunctiva Cornea 26 1101 1106 2007 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference . Animals were lightly sedated with Isoflurane and two microliters of 1 sodium fluorescein Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. solution in sterile saline was applied to the lower conjunctival sac. The animals awoke within two minutes. After fifteen minutes the animals were re sedated and the fluorescein stained tear fluid was collected with a phenol red cotton thread exactly as for Schirmer testing . The threads were immediately sealed in 1.5 mL polypropylene Eppendorf tubes shielded from light until fluorophotometric analysis. The length of cotton wetting in mm determined the volume of the collected tear fluid.

After 100 l of phosphate buffered saline PBS was added the tubes were spun at 12 000 rpm for five minutes and the fluid transferred to a 96 well polystyrene microtiter plate Corning Life Sciences 2592 Fisher Scientific Nepean Ont. . A standard well was prepared on each plate which consisted of a phenol red thread placed in 100 l PBS containing 2 l of 1 sodium fluorescein solution. Fluorescence was measured immediately using a fluorescence microplate reader FLUOstar OPTIMA BMG Labtech Germany after setting the gain to the standard well. The concentration of fluorescein in tears was calculated from the fluorescence units FU divided by the mm of cotton wetting FU mm .

Aqueous tear turnover was measured by fluorescein clearance. At baseline the mean fluorescein clearance value was 606 496 FU mm P 0.8920 . At subsequent examinations on day six and thirteen numerically the groups receiving scopolamine had higher values i.e. less tear turnover than the Group 1 untreated control . This difference was statistically significant at day 13 0.0304 but not day 6 P 0.1117 . A single topical instillation of 1 compound D3 on day eight has no effect on aqueous tear turnover as measured at day thirteen 5 days later compared to the untreated or scopolamine treated controls.

The mean and standard deviation SD were used to characterize the data for each study group. A one way analysis of variance ANOVA was performed for body weight and the ophthalmic signs for treatment groups at every observation using GraphPad Prism 4.0c GraphPad Software Inc. La Jolla Calif. . When stratified by examination day when the treatment group was statistically significant p

Dose ranging studies were conducted on the topical instillations of compound D3 in stimulating mucin production in na ve rats. Thirty male sprague dawley rats were divided into five groups of six rats per group and were treated bilaterally once every hour for six consecutive hours with either saline 0.4 of compound D3 1.0 of compound D3 2.5 of compound D3 and 0.00053 of NGF. Once anesthetized each animal received a 5 L topical instillation of test article into the lower conjunctival sac of both eyes using a calibrated micropipette.

Tear fluid washings from both eyes were pooled and were collected prior to treatment and following six hourly instillations of saline compound D3 and NGF. All tear fluid washings were evaluated for mucin concentration by an enzyme linked lectin assay ELLA .

The mean and standard deviation SD were used to characterize the data. The differences in mucin concentration was calculated from treated minus baseline from groups of rats. Continuous mucin changes between two groups from baseline were evaluated using the paired t test. The mucin changes between more than two treatment groups were analyzed using an analysis of variance. The median mucin changes between treatment groups were compared against a theoretical median of zero using the Wilcoxon rank sum test. A two sided test with P

The results demonstrated that after treatment the difference among groups was not statistically significant p 0.1430 . When pair wise comparisons were made between treated to baseline there was a statistically significant increase in mucin concentration in animals treated with 2.5 compound D3 from 3.0 1.9 ng L to 7.0 4.5 ng L p 0.0413 but not other groups p 0.1799 to 8454 . In addition the difference among groups was not statistically significant p 0.0818 . When the difference among groups were compared against a theoretical median of zero there was a statistically significant increase in the group treated with 2.5 of compound D3 4.0 3.5 ng L p 0.0312 but not other groups p 0.1562 to 1.1250 . Numerically the increases in mean changes in mucin concentration in all of the groups treated with compound D3 were dose dependent .

Male Sprague Dawley rats six to eight weeks old weighing between 360 g and 470 g were obtained from Charles River Wilmington Mass. . Animals were housed in animal quarters under constant room temperature 22 1 C. light conditions 12 h light 12 h dark cycle and relative humidity 32 61 . Animals were anaesthetized before the surgical pump implantation and before all clinical endpoint testing in an isoflurane 99.9 Abraxis Bioscience Richmond Hill Ontario chamber.

Dry eye was induced using scopolamine hydrobromide Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. which was continuously and systemically delivered to the animals via an osmotic pump 2ML4 Alzet CedarLane Burlington Ontario filled with scopolamine and implanted subcutaneously in the mid dorsal area between the scapulae. Scopolamine was delivered for a twenty eight day period at 12.5 mg day which translated to 30.0 1.5 mg kg via osmotic pump.

A sterile solution of 0.175 g mL of scopolamine hydrobromide Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. was prepared in saline. The solution was filtered through a 0.22 um syringe end filter Millex GC Millipore Corp Bedford Mass. and stored refrigerated overnight. Alzet Osmotic pumps Model 2ML4 LOT NO. 10187 08 CedarLane Laboratories Burlington Ontario were filled with 2 mL of the scopolamine solution according to the manufacturer s instructions. Sterile technique was used during the filling and handling of the pumps.

After the surgery and again the next day the animals were subcutaneously injected with Caprofen 0.5 mg 100 g a non steroidal anti inflammatory drug and potent long acting analgesic in rodents. Animals were weighed prior to pump implantation on Day 1 and then once a week for four weeks. This dosing regimen was reported to induce dry eye in rats Viau S et al. Time course of ocular surface and lacrimal gland changes in a new scopolamine induced dry eye model 246 857 867 2008 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference .

Treatments for G2 G6 continued daily for seventeen days up to an including day twenty one . Thereafter treatments were terminated but the study continued for another week. During treatment each animal was anesthetized in an isoflurane chamber. Once asleep each animal received a 54 topical instillation of test article into the lower conjunctival sac of both eyes using a calibrated micropipette. If a clinical endpoint was also being tested the test article was topically instilled at the end of the testing.

Compound D3 was prepared using a formulation designed by Mimetogen Pharmaceuticals which is buffered saline pH 7 as determined by pH indicator strips EMD Chemicals . Three topical dosing solutions were prepared as follows 

One topical dosing solution of 0.00053 NGF was prepared by diluting 1 L of the 3.16 mg mL stock solution in 6004 of sterile 0.9 sodium chloride injection USP LOT 63 922 FW EXP 20100301 . A freshly diluted dosing solution was made every week and stored refrigerated 2 8 C. . This concentration of NGF was reported to have efficacy in i dogs that developed dry eye after the excision of the third eyelid lacrimal gland Coassin M Lambiase A Costa N et al Efficacy of topical nerve growth factor treatment in dogs affected by dry eye. Graefe s Archive for Clinical and Experimental Ophthalmology 2005 243 151 155 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and ii rabbits that develop corneal nerve damage after Photorefractive keratectomy PRK Esquenazi S Bazan H E P Bui V et al Topical Combination of NGF and DHA Increases Rabbit Corneal Nerve Regeneration after Photorefractive Keratectomy. Investigative Ophthalmology Visual Science 2005 46 3121 3127 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference .

A topical dosing solution of sterile 0.9 sodium chloride injection USP LOT 63 922 FW EXP 20100301 was used. The saline solution was stored at room temperature.

As discussed in detail below evaluation of the effects of the 0.4 1.0 or 2.5 doses of compound D3 following the seven day recovery period showed that the 1 dose of compound D3 increased tear break up time TBUT increased mucin production and almost completely restored corneal staining as compared to the untreated control but did not show any statistically significant difference as compared to control for tear production Schirmer test protein determination or fluorescein clearance.

Tear break up times were tested on day 13 after 8 daily treatments day 21 after 16 daily treatments and day 28 after treatment was stopped for 7 days . TBUT was evaluated by instillation of 10 L sodium fluorescein solution 0.2 in sterile saline in the upper conjunctival sac of the anaesthetized animal. The lids were blinked manually to distribute the fluorescein with the tear film. Under the cobalt blue light of a portable slit lamp ophthalmoscope Reichert Ophthalmic Instruments Depew N.Y. the eye was held open and the time until one or more black streaks appeared in the precorneal tear film was recorded. For each eye a minimum of triplicate readings were made with fresh fluorescein solution.

Tear break up time was highest i.e. better in Group 1 untreated control than in any of the groups receiving scopolamine Table 4 and and B . There was a statistically significant effect of treatment at all observations p

While there are no baseline values for TBUT the effect of the 1 dose of compound D3 compared to the untreated control group and saline group can be appreciated by evaluating the changes in TBUT at Day 28 as compared to Day 13. The 1 dose of compound D3 statistically significantly improved TBUT as compared to the untreated and saline control groups p 0.0001 . In addition illustrates endpoint measurement data for TBUT over time as compared to Day 13 in the saline control group and the group treated with 1 dose of compound D3.

Immediately following TBUT assessment the clinical signs of corneal dryness were evaluated by fluorescein staining of the cornea and was tested on day 13 after 8 daily treatments day 21 after 16 daily treatments and day 28 after treatment was stopped for 7 days . A drop of a 0.2 sodium fluorescein solution made up in sterile saline was instilled in the upper conjunctival sac of the anaesthetized animal. The cornea was thereafter observed under blue light using a Portable Slit Lamp ophthalmoscope with blue cobalt filter Reichert Ophthalmic Instruments Depew N.Y. two to three minutes after fluorescein instillation. For each animal the punctate fluorescein stained area of the cornea was recorded in a masked fashion. The score of this test was graded from 0 to 4 where 0 is equal to no staining 1 is less than 25 surface staining 2 is 25 50 surface staining 3 is 50 75 surface staining and 4 is greater than 75 surface staining.

Numerically the groups receiving scopolamine had higher values i.e. more damage than the Group 1 untreated control Table 5 and . The difference among groups was statistically significant at Days 13 and 28 p

While there are no baseline values for corneal staining the effect of the 1 dose of compound D3 compared to the untreated control group and saline group can be appreciated by evaluating the changes in corneal staining at Day 28 as compared to Day 13. The 1 dose of compound D3 dose statistically significantly improved corneal staining as compared to the untreated and saline control groups p

A significant inverse correlation was noted between tBUT values and corneal staining scores between groups at all examinations. tBUT values decreased as corneal staining scores increased Spearman r 0.7606 p

Tear fluid washings were collected from all six groups of rats on day 12 after 7 daily treatments day 19 after 14 daily treatments and day 28 after treatment was stopped for 7 days after instillation of 5 L sterile saline in the lower conjunctival sac of the anaesthetized animal. The lids were blinked gently to mix the tear film with the saline. The diluted tear fluid was collected with a 5 L volume glass capillary tube Drummond Scientific Co Broomhall Pa. by capillary action from the tear meniscus in the lateral canthus. Approximately 4 5 L were routinely collected. In very dry eyes a second 5 L aliquot of saline was instilled before collection.

The concentrations of mucin glycoprotein in the diluted tear fluid washings were determined by an enzyme linked lectin assay ELLA . A sample containing 3 g total protein was diluted to 100 L in carbonate buffer pH 9.2 and transferred to a 96 well polystyrene microtiter plate Corning Life Sciences 2592 Fisher Scientific Nepean Ontario . A dilution series of bovine submaxillary mucin Sigma St. Louis Mo. was included on each plate as the standard. The plates were coated by evaporation at 37 C. overnight. After the plates were washed three times with wash buffer PBS containing 0.3 BSA 0.05 Tween 20 then blocked for nonspecific binding with PBS containing 3 BSA and 0.05 Tween 20 at 37 C. for one hour. The wells were rinsed three times in wash buffer and then incubated in 2 g mL biotinylated UEA 1 diluted in wash buffer Vector Labs Burlingame Calif. at 37 C. for one hour. The wells were rinsed three times in wash buffer and then incubated in 1 g mL HRP conjugated neutravidin diluted in wash buffer Pierce Rockford Ill. at 37 C. for one hour. After the wells were rinsed three times in wash buffer the color development was performed with TMB Promega Madison Wis. and stopped with 0.5N Sulfuric acid. The concentration of mucin in the tear fluid washings was calculated as the ng mucin divided by the volume of tear fluid washing in L that gave 3 g total protein.

Mucin production was measured and the difference among groups was not statistically significant p 0.1066 to 0.7844 at every observation Table 6 and . Numerically the highest mean values in any treatment group were seen in Group 4 1 dose of compound D3 at each of these visits 3.3 9.1 and 6.8 ng 4 compared with Group 1 untreated controls 2.9 6.8 and 1.5 ng L respectively . This difference was statistically significant at day 28 p 0.0312 but not other days p 0.6992 to 0.9973 . After the seven day recovery period this statistically significant increase in mucin production by the 1 dose of compound D3 may have improved the quality and stability of the tear film. In contrast there was no difference in mucin production for the 0.4 and 2.5 doses of compound D3 doses following the seven day recovery period. The higher dose may have desensitized the NGF receptors on the goblet cells causing them to be refractory to the agonist activity of compound D3. The lower dose may have been just sub optimal.

While there are no baseline values for mucin production the effect of the 1 dose of compound D3 compared to the untreated control group and saline group can be appreciated by evaluating the changes in mucin production at Day 28 as compared to Day 12. The 1 dose of compound D3 statistically significantly increased mucin production as compared to the untreated and saline control groups p 0.0013 . In addition illustrates endpoint measurement data for mucin production over time as compared to Day 12 in the saline control group and the group treated with 1 dose of compound D3.

Tear production was monitored using the Schirmer test on days 5 7 14 20 and 29 post induction of dry eye. Tear production was measured with Zone Quick standardized phenol red threads FCI Ophthalmics Marshfield Hills Mass. on animals lightly sedated with Isoflurane. The threads were inserted in the lateral lower canthus and left in place for thirty seconds. The length of the stained moistened portion of the thread was measured in millimeters using the scale provided with the threads to an accuracy of 1 mm.

The mean presurgical Schirmer tear test for 30 rats 60 eyes was 11.9 3.8 mm p 0.7228 . After 2 days scopolamine treated animals had lower Schirmer scores i.e. less tears than untreated controls 9.6 3.2 mm compared to 15.2 5.4 mm p 0.1671 and animals were allocated into groups Table 7 . At Day 5 treated animals had an average Schirmer score of 8.5 2.2 mm compared to untreated controls 17.7 4.4 mm and this difference was statistically significant p

Tear fluid turnover was measured using the fluorescein clearance test on days 5 7 14 and 20 post induction of dry eye. Tear fluorescein clearance was evaluated as described for humans Alfonso A. A. et al. Correlation of Tear Fluorescein Clearance and Schirmer Test Scores with Ocular Irritation Symptoms 106 803 810 1999 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and modified for rats Chen W. et al. Keratoconjunctivitis Sicca Modifies Epithelial Stem Cell Proliferation Kinetics in Conjunctiva 26 1101 1106 2007 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety . Animals were lightly sedated with Isoflurane and two microliters of 1 sodium fluorescein Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. solution in sterile saline was applied to the lower conjunctival sac. The animals awoke within two minutes. After fifteen minutes the animals were re sedated and the fluorescein stained tear fluid was collected with a phenol red cotton thread as described for Schirmer testing . The threads were immediately sealed in 1.5 mL polypropylene Eppendorf tubes shielded from light until fluorophotometric analysis. The volume of the collected tear fluid was determined by the length of cotton wetting in mm. After 100 l of phosphate buffered saline PBS was added the tubes were spun at 12 000 rpm for five minutes and the fluid transferred to a 96 well polystyrene microtiter plate Corning Life Sciences 2592 Fisher Scientific Nepean Ontario . A standard well was prepared on each plate which consisted of a phenol red thread placed in 100 l PBS containing 2 l of 1 sodium fluorescein solution. Fluorescence was measured immediately using a fluorescence microplate reader FLUOstar OPTIMA BMG Labtech Germany after setting the gain to the standard well. The concentration of fluorescein in tears was calculated from the fluorescence units divided by the mm of cotton wetting Fu mm .

At baseline the mean fluorescein clearance value was 387 427 FU mm p 0.7506 . At subsequent examinations numerically the groups receiving scopolamine had higher values i.e. less tear turnover than the Group 1 untreated control . This difference was statistically significant at day 7 0.0378 but not other days p 0.1242 to 0.4472 . There was no statistically significant difference among the groups that received scopolamine Table 9 and .

A significant inverse correlation was noted between tear fluorescein clearance values and Schirmer test values between groups at all examinations. Tear fluorescein concentration increased as aqueous tear production decreased Spearman r 0.3306 p

There were no mortalities. Mild to severe ocular irritation was observed in all scopolamine treated animals G2 6 from Day 2 onward. Most scopolamine treated animals eyes showed conjunctival congestion swelling and conjunctival bloody discharge. Conjunctival congestion and conjunctival bloody discharge usually resolved the next day but conjunctival swelling continued throughout the study. Pre treatment mean body weight was approximately 400 g and was not statistically different among groups p 0.3927 Table 10 . Mean body weight in the untreated control groups 01 increased to approximately 575 g throughout the study. In the five groups receiving scopolamine G2 G6 mean body weight increased to approximately 425 to 450 g. There was a statistically significant effect of treatment to decrease body weight starting on Day 14 continuing through Day 28 p

When applicable eye data were averaged for each rat and therefore the experimental animal became the unit analyzed n 5 . The mean and standard deviation SD were used to characterize the data for each study group. A two way analysis of variance was performed for body weight and the ophthalmic signs with factors of treatment group examination day and treatment group examination day PROC GLM PC SAS version 9.1. SAS Institute Cary N.C. . When stratified by examination day when the treatment group was statistically significant p

A posteriori a power calculation was performed. Whitley E. and Ball J. Statistics Review 4 Sample Size Calculations Critical Care 6 335 341 2002 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The study had 80 power beta with an alpha 0.05 two tailed to detect a difference as small as 54 g in body weight 4.9 mm in Schirmer score 830 FU mm in fluorescein clearance 2.8 seconds in tBUT 0.9 score in corneal staining and 4.5 ng L mucin.

