---

title: Electronic communication system, in-vehicle unit, and control method
abstract: This electronic communication system includes: a mobile terminal; and an in-vehicle unit, wherein the mobile terminal includes: a mobile-side first communication portion; a mobile-side second communication portion; and an application functional portion, and wherein the in-vehicle unit includes: a vehicle-side first communication portion; a vehicle-side second communication portion; and reproduction portions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571619&OS=09571619&RS=09571619
owner: Honda Motor Co., Ltd.
number: 09571619
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140818
---
The present invention relates to an electronic communication system an in vehicle unit and a control method.

The present application claims priority based on Japanese Patent Application No. 2013 183358 filed on Sep. 4 2013 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

In recent years multifunctional type mobile phones such as those represented by multifunctional mobile phone terminals smartphones have come into widespread use. With various applications installed multifunctional mobile phone terminals achieve a variety of functions. Among those applications many have a function such as that of an automotive navigation system which has been conventionally built into an in vehicle unit. As a result of this these days there has been an increasing desire to utilize such a function which is mounted in a multifunctional mobile phone terminal in an in vehicle unit.

In connection with this an electronic system is known in which an information terminal and an electronic unit such as an in vehicle unit are able to communicate with each other through a plurality of communication systems for example see Patent Document 1 . Furthermore a vehicular communication system is known in which an application executed in a mobile terminal unit and an application executed in a vehicular communication unit are caused to operate cooperatively with each other the mobile terminal unit and the vehicular communication unit being able to communicate with each other through a plurality of communication systems for example see Patent Document 2 . Furthermore a display system is known in which a mobile communication terminal and a display unit which are able to communicate with each other through a plurality of communication systems respectively transmit and receive pieces of information in accordance with their respective communication systems for example see Patent Document 3 .

However in conventional electronic systems vehicular communication systems display systems and so on information acquirable by the side of the information terminal or the side of the in vehicle unit is limited. As a result implementable processing of the system is limited.

The present invention has been achieved in view of the above problem in the conventional technique and provides an electronic communication system an in vehicle unit and a control method that are capable of implementing various types of control by the processing on the side of a mobile type terminal.

According to the invention as set forth above in 1 and 7 the electronic communication system transmits information related to the information which the in vehicle unit has acquired in the motor vehicle to the mobile type terminal via communication to the first communication specification and transmits an image or a sound which the mobile type terminal has generated to the in vehicle unit via communication to the second communication specification. Therefore in the in vehicle unit it is possible to reproduce the image and sound that have been generated in the mobile type terminal based on the information in the motor vehicle. Namely according to the electronic communication system it is possible to achieve various types of control by the processing on the side of the mobile type terminal.

According to the invention as set forth above in 2 the mobile type terminal of the electronic communication system receives a request from the application functional portion via the API and transmits the received request to the in vehicle unit to thereby acquire the information that has been acquired on the side of the in vehicle unit. Therefore it is possible to improve the compatibility of the application functional portion.

According to the invention as set forth above in 3 the electronic communication system performs authentication processing according to the wired second communication specification. Therefore the mobile type terminal and the in vehicle unit that adopt various types of second communication specifications are capable of communicating with each other.

According to the invention as set forth above in 4 when a physical connection for allowing the mobile type terminal and the in vehicle unit to communicate with each other to the wired second communication specification is established the electronic communication system inquires whether to start transmission of the information which the in vehicle unit has acquired via in vehicle communication to the mobile type terminal via communication to the first communication specification or not. If an input operation indicative of affirmation to the inquiry is performed to the input portion the electronic communication system performs authentication processing for starting the transmission. Therefore it is possible to inhibit operations that the user does not intend.

According to the invention as set forth above in 5 the in vehicle unit transmits and receives information related to the information which the in vehicle unit has acquired in the motor vehicle via communication to the first communication specification receives an image or a sound which the mobile type terminal has generated via communication to the second communication specification and reproduces the received image and the sound. Therefore in the mobile type terminal it is possible to acquire an image and sound that has been generated based on the information that its own unit has transmitted and to reproduce them.

According to the invention as set forth above in 6 when a physical connection for allowing the mobile type terminal and the in vehicle unit to communicate with each other to the wired second communication specification is established the in vehicle unit inquires whether to start transmission of the information which its own unit has acquired via in vehicle communication to the mobile type terminal via communication to the first communication specification or not. If an input operation indicative of affirmation to the inquiry is performed to the input portion the electronic communication system performs authentication processing for starting the transmission. Therefore it is possible to inhibit operations that the user does not intend.

Hereunder is a description of an embodiment of the present invention with reference to the drawings. is a diagram showing an example of how an electronic communication system according to a first embodiment is utilized. The electronic communication system according to the first embodiment for example includes a mobile type terminal and an in vehicle display unit in vehicle unit . The mobile type terminal is for example a multifunctional mobile phone terminal smartphone but may be another type of portable information terminal such as a mobile phone terminal a tablet PC Personal Computer a notebook PC an electronic book reader or a PDA Personal Digital Assistant .

The mobile type terminal is connected to the in vehicle display unit mounted in an automobile Car so as to be able to communicate according to a plurality of specifications for example wireless communication or wired communication over a cable Cbl . Wireless communication is conducted under for example the Bluetooth registered trademark standard. Furthermore wireless communication may be conducted via wireless LAN Local Area Network Wi Fi Direct registered trademark or the like. On the other hand wired communication over the cable Cbl is conducted under for example the HDMI High Definition Multimedia Interface registered trademark standard USB Universal Serial Bus or the like. The mobile type terminal has various applications installed therein and has a variety of functions according to the started application. As an example of these functions an automotive navigation system and a vehicle audio can be listed.

The mobile type terminal acquires vehicle information described later from the in vehicle display unit via for example wireless communication. Then based on the acquired vehicle information the mobile type terminal generates images and sounds of the active application. Furthermore the mobile type terminal acquires information indicative of an input from the user that has been received by the in vehicle display unit . Then based on the acquired information the mobile type terminal generates images and sounds corresponding to various operations performed by the active application or the OS Operating System . The mobile type terminal outputs these generated images and sounds to a display portion or a speaker of its own unit described later and causes them to be reproduced. Furthermore the mobile type terminal outputs the generated images and sounds to the in vehicle display unit over the cable Cbl to thereby make it possible to cause the in vehicle display unit to reproduce the images and sounds.

The in vehicle display unit is for example a unit provided with a display portion and a speaker and may be a dedicated unit for implementing the present invention. Alternatively an automotive navigation unit a sub display an in vehicle television receiver or the like may be used also as the in vehicle display unit . From the automobile Car the in vehicle display unit acquires as vehicle information information that is acquirable via a CAN Controller Area Network communication information that is acquirable from various sensors mounted in the automobile Car or other information. The in vehicle display unit transmits the acquired vehicle information to the mobile type terminal via wireless communication. Furthermore the in vehicle display unit receives an input from the user by means of an input reception portion described later and outputs information indicative of the received input from the user to the mobile type terminal over the cable Cbl. The information indicative of the input from the user is information related to for example the coordinates at which a touchscreen is touch operated but may be information about the fact that buttons have been depressed information about the fact that switches have been turned on off or other information.

The in vehicle display unit acquires various images and sounds from the mobile type terminal and outputs the acquired images and sounds to a display portion and a speaker described later of its own unit. Thus the mobile type terminal outputs various images and sounds to the in vehicle display unit and then the in vehicle display unit reproduces these to thereby allow the user to utilize the electronic communication system as an automotive navigation system a vehicle audio or the like. Note that the pieces of information that are transmitted and received via wireless communication and via the wired communication may be in a reversed relationship for example images and sounds may be transmitted and received in a wireless manner and vehicle information may be transmitted and received in a wired manner.

The mobile side first communication portion is for example a wireless communication module that is provided with a Bluetooth antenna and performs a wireless communication based on the Bluetooth standard and here conducts communication by use of the 2.4 GHz band in the ISM Industry Science Medical band bands. In the wireless communication system under the Bluetooth standard a spread spectrum communication on the frequency hopping FH system is utilized. The frequency range of the 2.4 GHz band is divided into 79 frequency channels hereinafter each referred to as communication channel in 1 MHz intervals. Based on the hopping pattern the frequency channels to be used are switched in a timeshared manner in every time slot frequency hopping . The wireless communication system under the Bluetooth standard is performed in the master slave system and the management of the hopping pattern is performed by the master. By use of the same hopping pattern it is possible to form a wireless network called the piconet between one master and up to seven slaves. Based on the Bluetooth standard the mobile side first communication portion performs a wireless communication between itself and a vehicle side first communication portion of the in vehicle display unit .

The mobile side second communication portion includes hardware for conducting communication based on for example the HDMI registered trademark standard. The mobile side second communication portion includes for example an HDMI terminal to which an HDMI cable is to be connected and an interface portion capable of transmitting and receiving image signals audio signals and various pieces of information related to image formats between itself and a device that outputs images and sounds. This interface portion has a plurality of channels and various images or sounds are transmitted and received by use of the TMDS Transition Minimized Differential Signaling channel.

Furthermore the mobile side second communication portion further includes hardware for conducting communication based on the USB standard. The mobile side second communication portion includes a USB connector and an interface portion capable of transmitting and receiving image signals audio signals and various pieces of information related to image formats between itself and a device that outputs images and sounds.

The processor is for example a CPU Central Processing Unit . The processor executes various programs stored in a mobile side storage portion which will be described later. The programs executed by the processor include for example an application program an application program . . . and an application program N. In the following description the individual application programs are genetically referred to as application program application function portion unless they are required to be distinguished. Based on pieces of information acquired from the mobile side first communication portion the mobile side second communication portion the input reception portion and the like the application program generates images to be displayed on the display portion . Furthermore based on the acquired pieces of information the application program generates sounds to be produced from the speaker . The application program outputs and displays the generated images to and on the display portion and outputs and emits the generated sounds to and from the speaker .

The mobile side storage portion includes for example flash memory RAM Random Access Memory register and the like. The mobile side storage portion stores the programs to be executed by the processor .

The input reception portion is for example a touchscreen but may include various buttons and switches. The input reception portion receives an input from the user and outputs information indicative of the received operation to the processor .

The display portion is for example a liquid crystal display panel or an organic EL Electro Luminescence display panel. The display portion displays the images generated by the application program .

An external communication portion includes an antenna a modulation portion a coding decoding portion an up down converter and the like. The external communication portion conducts communication via a mobile communication network and a wireless LAN to thereby transmit and receive information between itself and for example servers present on the Internet.

The in vehicle display unit includes for example a vehicle side first communication portion a vehicle side second communication portion a processor an in vehicle equipment an input reception portion input portion a vehicle side storage portion a display portion reproduction portion and a speaker reproduction portion . Similarly to the mobile side first communication portion the vehicle side first communication portion is a wireless communication module that conducts wireless communication based on the Bluetooth standard. The vehicle side first communication portion conducts communication between itself and the mobile side first communication portion .

Similarly to the mobile side second communication portion the vehicle side second communication portion includes hardware for conducting communication based on the HDMI standard and hardware for conducting communication based on the USB standard. Namely with the mobile side second communication portion and the vehicle side second communication portion being physically connected to each other by the HDMI cable or the USB cable the mobile type terminal and the in vehicle display unit are capable of transmitting and receiving various images and sounds and information indicative of an input from the user via the communication based on the HDMI standard or the communication based on the USB standard.

The processor is for example a CPU of the in vehicle display unit . The processor executes various programs stored in the vehicle side storage portion described later to thereby implement the following software function portions. The processor includes as the software function portions for example an authentication portion a vehicle side information provision portion a vehicle side first communication control portion a vehicle side second communication control portion and an output control portion .

The authentication portion performs authentication necessary for the communication that is conducted between itself and the mobile type terminal . The authentication portion performs processing related to the authentication related to the communication conducted by the vehicle side first communication portion and processing related to the authentication related to the communication conducted by the vehicle side second communication portion .

The vehicle side information provision portion is for example a functional portion for providing the mobile type terminal with vehicle information by means of the vehicle side first communication portion and performs an operation based on a dedicated protocol for transmitting and receiving vehicle information via wireless communication. In compliance with a request from the mobile type terminal to acquire vehicle information the vehicle side information provision portion acquires various pieces of vehicle information from the in vehicle equipment . On acquiring a request to acquire vehicle information from the mobile type terminal the vehicle side information provision portion outputs the vehicle information to the mobile type terminal in a predetermined cycle T. The predetermined cycle T is for example approximately 500 milliseconds to 1 second. Furthermore after outputting the acquired vehicle information to the vehicle side first communication control portion the vehicle side information provision portion causes the vehicle side first communication control portion to convert the acquired vehicle information to a PDU Protocol Data Unit that is transmittable by the vehicle side first communication portion and then to transmit the PDU to the mobile type terminal . Note that the vehicle side information provision portion and the vehicle side first communication control portion may be a unified functional portion.

The vehicle side first communication control portion converts the vehicle information which has been acquired from the vehicle side information provision portion to a PDU that is transmittable by the vehicle side first communication portion . Then the vehicle side first communication control portion causes the converted PDU to be transmitted from the vehicle side first communication portion to the mobile type terminal .

The vehicle side second communication control portion converts the information which has been converted to a PDU transmittable and receivable by the vehicle side second communication portion and is also related to various images and sounds to be acquired from the mobile type terminal to information in a format treatable in the in vehicle equipment . Furthermore the vehicle side second communication control portion converts the information which is indicative of the input by the use that is acquired from an input reception portion described later to a PDU that is transmittable and receivable by the vehicle side first communication portion and causes the vehicle side second communication portion to transmit the converted PDU to the mobile type terminal .

The output control portion outputs and displays the images which have been converted to those in a format treatable by the vehicle side second communication control portion to and on the display portion and outputs and emits the converted sounds to and from the speaker .

The in vehicle equipment is for example various sensors mounted in the vehicle an ECU Electronic Control Unit that transmits and receives information via the CAN communication or other units. The sensors mounted in the vehicle includes for example a speedometer and a tachometer a suction pressure gauge a supercharger pressure gauge an exhaust gas temperature indicator a voltmeter an oil pressure gauge an oil temperature gauge a water temperature gauge and the like.

The input reception portion is for example a touchscreen but may include various buttons and switches. The input reception portion receives an input from the user and outputs information indicative of the received operation for example information about the coordinates on which a touch operation is performed to the processor .

The vehicle side storage portion includes for example RAM and register or an HDD Hard Disk Drive and an SSD Solid State Drive or the like. The vehicle side storage portion stores various programs executed by the processor .

The display portion is for example a liquid crystal display panel or an organic EL display panel. The display portion displays images acquired from the output control portion .

The application app acquires the white list from a white list server via the external communication portion after every lapse of the predetermined cycle T to thereby update the white list. The predetermined cycle T is for example approximately several days. The white list server stores the white list. Note that the update of the white list may be performed at the time when a new application is installed in the mobile type terminal . Furthermore in the flow of information acquired via the external communication portion is denoted with an arrow with a single dotted line.

The application app is an application program with a function of automotive navigation. The application app is an application program capable of acquiring and utilizing a variety of services. The application app is an application program with a function of vehicle audio. In the example shown in every application program includes a mobile side information provision portion LPA and a communication control portion mobile side communication control portion APM. The mobile side information provision portion LPA is a functional portion for transmitting and receiving vehicle information by means of the mobile side first communication portion and is made of a dedicated protocol for transmitting and receiving vehicle information. In compliance with a request from each application program the mobile side information provision portion LPA transmits information which is indicative of a request to acquire vehicle information to the in vehicle display unit via the communication control portion APM. Here in acquiring vehicle information the applications app to app requests the mobile side information provision portion LPA of each application program to acquire desired vehicle information from the in vehicle display unit . This request is made by for example an API Application Programming Interface defined by the dedicated protocol constituting the mobile side information provision portion LPA. Based on a predetermined API and on an argument indicative of the desired vehicle information the applications app to app cause the mobile side information provision portions LPA to acquire the desired vehicle information from the in vehicle display unit . Furthermore the mobile side information provision portion LPA receives vehicle information from the in vehicle display unit via the communication control portion APM.

The communication control portion APM converts vehicle information and a request to acquire vehicle information to a PDU that is transmittable and receivable via wireless communication and transmits and receives the converted PDU in the wireless communication that is conducted between the mobile side first communication portion and the vehicle side first communication portion . Furthermore the communication control portion APM converts various images and sounds which are to be transmitted to the vehicle side second communication portion to a PDU transmittable and receivable by the mobile side second communication portion which conducts wired communication and transmits the converted PDUs to the vehicle side second communication portion . Furthermore from the vehicle side second communication portion via the mobile side first communication portion the communication control portion APM acquires information that is indicative of an input from the user and has been converted to a PDU transmittable and receivable by the mobile side second communication portion . Arrows with a solid line in denote a flow of a request to acquire vehicle information and vehicle information. Furthermore arrows with a broken line in denote a flow of various images and sounds and information indicative of an input from the user.

In this manner each application program transmits and receives vehicle information by means of the mobile side information provision portion LPA and the communication control portion APM and transmits and receives various images and sounds and information indicative of an input from the user by means of the communication control portion APM. Each of the application programs included in the aforementioned white list is capable of independently establish communication with the in vehicle display unit and of transmitting and receiving various pieces of information.

Furthermore in the example of the communication intermediary server MLS manages the white list. Via the OS and the external communication portion the communication intermediary server MLS updates the white list from the white list server after every lapse of the predetermined cycle T. The OS is an operating system for example an Android registered trademark OS.

Here in acquiring vehicle information the applications appto apprequest the mobile side information provision portions LPA of the application appto acquire desired vehicle information from the in vehicle display unit . This request is made by for example an API defined by the dedicated protocol that constitutes the mobile side information provision portion LPA. Based on a predetermined API and on an argument indicative of the desired vehicle information the applications appto appcause the mobile side information provision portions LPA to acquire the desired vehicle information from the in vehicle display unit . Therefore through the application appas a launcher application the applications appto appmake a request to acquire vehicle information to the in vehicle display unit . In summary in the example of only through the launcher application the application programs acquire vehicle information via the mobile side first communication portion and the vehicle side first communication portion while as for various images and sounds and information indicative of an input from the user the communication intermediary server MLS transmits and receives them via the mobile side second communication portion and the vehicle side second communication portion . Note that request s to acquire vehicle information to the in vehicle display unit may be performed with pieces of vehicle information specified separately but may be performed with pieces of vehicle information specified in a batch.

A specific operation of the application apprelated to the acquisition request of vehicle information will be described in detail below. The mobile side information provision portion LPA outputs an acquisition request of vehicle information to the mobile side communication control portion LPACP. The mobile side communication control portion LPACP converts the acquired acquisition request of vehicle information to a PDU transmittable by the mobile side first communication portion and transmits the acquisition request of the vehicle information which has been converted to a transmittable PDU to the in vehicle display unit via wireless communication.

The vehicle side first communication control portion of the in vehicle display unit outputs the acquisition request of vehicle information which has been acquired via wireless communication to the vehicle side information provision portion . Based on the acquired acquisition request of vehicle information the vehicle side information provision portion reads the requested vehicle information from the in vehicle equipment . The vehicle side information provision portion outputs the read vehicle information to the vehicle side first communication control portion . The vehicle side first communication control portion converts the acquired vehicle information to a PDU transmittable by the vehicle side first communication portion and transmits the converted PDU to the mobile type terminal .

The mobile side communication control portion LPACP of the application appconverts the vehicle information which has been acquired via wireless communication to information in a format treatable by the mobile type terminal and outputs the converted vehicle information to the mobile side information provision portion LPA. The mobile side information provision portion LPA outputs the acquired vehicle information to the application app. Based on the acquired vehicle information the application appgenerates various images and transmits the generated images to the vehicle side second communication control portion via the communication intermediary server MLS. At this time the communication intermediary server MLS converts the images to PDUs transmittable by the mobile side second communication portion and then transmits them to the in vehicle display unit .

Firstly the mobile type terminal and the in vehicle display unit performs pairing related to wireless communication via the mobile side first communication portion and the vehicle side first communication portion . Here the pairing is made by use of for example HFP Hands Free Profile .

Next after the mobile type terminal and the in vehicle display unit are paired the mobile type terminal and the in vehicle display unit are connected by the user who uses the cable Cbl to wiredly connect between the mobile side second communication portion and the vehicle side second communication portion . Here the cable Cbl is for example an HDMI cable.

Next when connected to the mobile type terminal by the cable Cbl in step S the in vehicle display unit displays a start button for the launcher application on the display portion . Note that the start button for the launcher application is displayed even if the steps S and S are in the reverse order. Namely the in vehicle display unit displays the start button for the launcher application only when both of the pairing related to wireless communication and the connection by the cable Cbl are performed. Below is a description for the case where the start button for the launcher application is tapped by the user i.e. the start of the launcher application is selected .

Next the in vehicle display unit transmits a request to start the launcher application to the mobile type terminal via the vehicle side first communication portion and the mobile side first communication portion .

Next based on the received request to start the launcher application the mobile type terminal starts the launcher application.

Nest the mobile type terminal transmits authentication information of the communication control portion APM to the in vehicle display unit via the mobile side second communication portion and the vehicle side second communication portion to thereby perform authentication between the communication control portion APM and the vehicle side first communication control portion .

Next based on the acquired authentication information the authentication portion of the in vehicle display unit performs authentication and transmits information indicative of completion of the authentication of the communication control portion APM or information indicative of authentication error to the mobile type terminal via the vehicle side second communication portion and the mobile side second communication portion . Below is a description for the case where information indicative of completion of the authentication is transmitted.

Next on acquiring the information indicative of completion of the authentication of the communication control portion APM the mobile type terminal transmits an affirmative response to the in vehicle display unit via the mobile side second communication portion and the vehicle side second communication portion .

Next on acquiring the affirmative response the in vehicle display unit transmits a request to start authentication of an information provision portion to the mobile type terminal via the vehicle side first communication portion and the mobile side first communication portion in order to perform authentication between the vehicle side information provision portion and the mobile side information provision portion LPA.

Next in response to the acquired request to start authentication the mobile type terminal transmits the authentication information of the mobile side information provision portion LPA to the in vehicle display unit via the mobile side first communication portion and the vehicle side first communication portion . Here the authentication information of the mobile side information provision portion LPA is for example a UUID Universally Unique Identifier that uniquely identifies software SIM Subscriber Identity Module information of the mobile type terminal or the like.

Next based on the acquired authentication information of the mobile side information provision portion LPA the authentication portion of the in vehicle display unit performs authentication. When the authentication is completed the in vehicle display unit transmits information indicative of completion of authentication together with an encryption key necessary for encryption and decryption of the information which is transmitted and received between the mobile side information provision portion LPA and the vehicle side information provision portion to the mobile type terminal via the vehicle side first communication portion and the mobile side first communication portion . With the encryption and decryption by means of the encryption key the electronic communication system is allowed to transmit and receive vehicle information more safely to thereby make it possible to for example prevent interference to information among application programs in action in the mobile type terminal .

Firstly the mobile type terminal and the in vehicle display unit perform pairing related to wireless communication via the mobile side first communication portion and the vehicle side first communication portion .

Next after the mobile type terminal and the in vehicle display unit are paired the mobile type terminal and the in vehicle display unit are wiredly connected by the user by use of the cable Cbl. Here the cable Cbl is for example a USB cable.

Next when connected to the mobile type terminal by the cable Cbl in step S the in vehicle display unit transmits authentication information of the communication intermediary server MLS via the vehicle side second communication portion and the mobile side second communication portion to thereby perform authentication between the communication intermediary server MLS and the vehicle side first communication control portion . In the case where the HDMI cable is connected the in vehicle display unit displays a start button for the launcher application on the display portion similarly to step S of and conducts the operations in steps S to S of . However in the case where the USB cable is connected the in vehicle display unit moves to the operation in step S instead of displaying the start button for the launcher application on the display portion .

Next based on the acquired authentication information the in vehicle display unit performs authentication and transmits information indicative of completion of the authentication of the communication intermediary server MLS or information indicative of authentication error to the mobile type terminal via the vehicle side second communication portion and the mobile side second communication portion . Below is a description for the case where information indicative of completion of authentication is transmitted.

Next on acquiring the information indicative of completion of authentication of the communication control portion APM the mobile type terminal transmits an affirmative response to the in vehicle display unit via the mobile side second communication portion and the vehicle side second communication portion .

Next on acquiring the affirmative response the in vehicle display unit transmits a request to start authentication of an information provision portion to the mobile type terminal via the vehicle side first communication portion and the mobile side first communication portion in order to perform authentication between the vehicle side information provision portion and the mobile side information provision portion LPA.

Next in response to the acquired request to start the authentication the mobile type terminal transmits the authentication information of the mobile side information provision portion LPA to the in vehicle display unit via the mobile side first communication portion and the vehicle side first communication portion .

Next based on the acquired authentication information of the mobile side information provision portion LPA the in vehicle display unit performs authentication. When the authentication is completed the in vehicle display unit transmits information indicative of completion of the authentication together with an encryption key necessary for encryption and decryption of information which is transmitted and received between the mobile side information provision portion LPA and the vehicle side information provision portion to the mobile type terminal via the vehicle side first communication portion and the mobile side first communication portion .

Firstly the mobile type terminal displays images of a list of application programs that have been made visible by the launcher application and are also allowed to communicate with the in vehicle display unit .

Next the mobile type terminal transmits the image which is shown on its own unit to the in vehicle display unit via the mobile side second communication portion and the vehicle side second communication portion .

Next the in vehicle display unit receives an input from the user by means of the input reception portion .

Next the in vehicle display unit transmits information indicative of the received input from the user to the mobile type terminal via the vehicle side second communication portion and the mobile side second communication portion . Here the input from the user is information indicative of selection start of a navigation application out of the list of application programs that are displayed on the display portion .

Next the mobile type terminal receives the information indicative of the input from the user. Based on the received information the mobile type terminal selects starts the navigation application. Then the mobile type terminal displays an image of the started navigation application on the display portion . Here it is presumed that in the image of the started navigation application a navigation menu is drawn.

Next the mobile type terminal transmits the image displayed on its own unit to the in vehicle display unit via the mobile side second communication portion and the vehicle side second communication portion .

Next the in vehicle display unit receives an input from the user by means of the input reception portion .

Next the in vehicle display unit transmits information indicative of the received input from the user to the mobile type terminal via the vehicle side second communication portion and the mobile side second communication portion . Here it is presumed that the input from the user is information for selecting entering the display of the current position and current moving speed out of the menu of the navigation applications that is displayed on the display portion .

Next the mobile type terminal receives information indicative of the input from the user. Based on the received information the mobile type terminal displays on the display portion the information for selecting entering the display of the current position and current moving speed.

Next the mobile type terminal transmits a request to acquire the vehicle information that is necessary for displaying the current position and current moving speed to the in vehicle display unit via the mobile side first communication portion and the vehicle side first communication portion .

Next based on the request to acquire the vehicle information necessary for displaying the current position and current moving speed the in vehicle display unit acquires vehicle information.

Next the in vehicle display unit transmits the acquired vehicle information to the mobile type terminal via the vehicle side first communication portion and the mobile side first communication portion .

Next based on the acquired vehicle information the mobile type terminal generates an image to be displayed namely an image in which the current position and current moving speed are drawn. Then the mobile type terminal displays the generated image on the display portion .

Next the mobile type terminal transmits the imaged displayed on its own unit and the sound to be emitted to the in vehicle display unit via the mobile side second communication portion and the vehicle side second communication portion .

Next the in vehicle display unit displays the received image on the display portion of its own unit. After this the mobile type terminal and the in vehicle display unit repeat the flow of these operations.

Thus in the electronic communication system according to the first embodiment communication is performed between the mobile type terminal and the in vehicle display unit on two communication systems. The in vehicle display unit transmits vehicle information to the mobile type terminal via communication to first communication specifications for example the aforementioned wireless communication while the mobile type terminal transmits various images or sounds which have been generated in its own unit to the in vehicle display unit via communication to second communication specifications for example the aforementioned wired communication . Therefore in the in vehicle display unit it is possible to reproduce the various images and sounds that have been generated in the mobile type terminal based on the vehicle information.

Furthermore the mobile type terminal of the electronic communication system receives a request from the application program via the API and transmits the received request to the in vehicle display unit to thereby acquire the information that has been acquired by the side of the in vehicle display unit . Therefore it is possible to improve the compatibility of application programs.

Furthermore the electronic communication system performs authentication processing according to the wired second communication specifications. Therefore the mobile type terminal and the in vehicle display unit that adopt various types of second communication specifications are capable of communicating with each other.

Furthermore in the electronic communication system when a physical connection for conducting communication to the wired second communication specifications is established between the mobile type terminal and the in vehicle display unit the in vehicle display unit displays the start button of the launcher application. Then in the case where the start button of the launcher application is tapped authentication related to communication to the first communication specifications and authentication related to communication to the second communication specifications are started. Therefore it is possible to inhibit unintentional operations by the user.

While an embodiment of the present invention has been described in detail above with reference to the drawings specific configurations are not limited to this embodiment. Modifications replacements omissions and so on may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention.

Note that a program for implementing the processings of the functional portions of the electronic communication system according to the aforementioned embodiments may be recorded in a recording medium readable by computers. Then the program recorded in the recording medium may be caused to be read by a computer system and executed. Thereby the aforementioned processings related to the electronic communication system may be performed. The computer system here includes an OS Operation System and hardware such as a peripheral device.

Furthermore in the case where the WWW system is utilized the computer system additionally includes an environment of providing or an environment of displaying web pages.

Furthermore the recording medium readable by computers refers to a portable medium such as a flexible disk a magneto optical disk a ROM and a CD ROM and a storage device such as a hard disk built in a computer system. Furthermore the recording medium readable by computers additionally includes one that dynamically retains a program for a short period of time such as a communication line in the case where a program is transmitted over a communication line such as a network including the Internet and a telephone line and one that retains a program for a given period of time such as internal volatile memory of a computer system that functions as a server or a client for the aforementioned case where a program is transmitted over a communication line. Furthermore the aforementioned program may be one for implementing a part of the aforementioned functions. Furthermore the aforementioned program may be one that is capable of achieving the aforementioned functions by being combined with a program already recorded in the computer system.

As described above an electronic communication system according to the present embodiment includes a mobile type terminal and an in vehicle unit that communicates with the mobile type terminal wherein the mobile type terminal includes a mobile side first communication portion that receives information which the in vehicle unit has acquired in a motor vehicle via communication to a first communication specification a mobile side second communication portion that transmits an image or a sound which has been generated in the mobile type terminal to the in vehicle unit via communication to a second communication specification and an application functional portion that generates the image or the sound based on information received from the in vehicle unit and wherein the in vehicle unit includes a vehicle side first communication portion that transmits information which the in vehicle unit has acquired in the motor vehicle to the mobile type terminal via the communication to the first communication specification a vehicle side second communication portion that receives the image or the sound which has been generated in the mobile type terminal via the communication to the second communication specification and reproduction portions that reproduce the image or the sound that has been received. Furthermore the mobile type terminal may further include an information provision portion that receives a request from the application functional portion via an API Application Programming Interface that controls the mobile side first communication portion so as to transmit the received request to the in vehicle unit and that provides the application functional portion with the information which the mobile side first communication portion has received from the in vehicle unit as a response to the API. Furthermore the in vehicle unit may adopt a wired communication specification as the second communication specification and may further include an authentication portion that when communication to the first communication specification is conducted and also a physical connection for conducting communication to the second communication specification is established performs authentication processing according to the second communication specification. Furthermore the in vehicle unit may further include an input portion that receives an input operation from a user and wherein when communication to the first communication specification is conducted and also a physical connection for conducting communication to the second communication specification is established the authentication portion may do an output of inquiring whether to start transmission of information which the in vehicle unit has acquired via in vehicle communication to the mobile type terminal via communication to the first communication specification or not if the second communication specification is a given communication specification and the authentication portion may perform authentication processing for starting the transmission if an input operation indicative of affirmation to the inquiry is performed to the input portion . Furthermore an in vehicle unit according to the present embodiment is an in vehicle unit that communicates with a mobile type terminal includes a first communication portion that transmits information which is acquirable in a motor vehicle provided with the in vehicle unit to the mobile type terminal via communication to a first communication specification a second communication portion that receives an image or a sound which has been generated in the mobile type terminal via communication to a wired second communication specification reproduction portions that reproduce the image or the sound that has been received and an authentication portion that when the communication to the first communication specification is conducted and also a physical connection for conducting the communication to the second communication specification is established performs authentication processing according to the second communication specification. Furthermore the in vehicle unit may further include an input portion that receives an input operation from a user wherein when communication to the first communication specification is conducted and also a physical connection for conducting the communication to the second communication specification is established the authentication portion may do an output of inquiring whether to start transmission of information which the in vehicle unit has acquired via in vehicle communication to the mobile type terminal via communication to the first communication specification or not if the second communication specification is a given communication specification and the authentication portion may perform authentication processing for starting the transmission if the input portion receives information indicative of affirmation to the inquiry as an input from the user. Furthermore a control method of an electronic communication system according to the present embodiment includes a mobile type terminal and an in vehicle unit that communicates with the mobile type terminal wherein the mobile type terminal receives information which the in vehicle unit has acquired in a motor vehicle via communication to a first communication specification transmits an image or a sound which has been generated in the mobile type terminal to the in vehicle unit via communication to a second communication specification and generates the image or the sound based on information received from the in vehicle unit and wherein the in vehicle unit transmits information which the in vehicle unit has acquired in the motor vehicle to the mobile type terminal via communication to the first communication specification receives the image or the sound which has been generated in the mobile type terminal via communication to the second communication specification and reproduces the image or the sound that has been received.

