---

title: Automatic aggregation for infrastructure string matching
abstract: In some examples, a computing system may receive a plurality of string matching requests with respect to a plurality of data streams, and determine one or more opportunities for aggregation of string matching.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09563620&OS=09563620&RS=09563620
owner: Empire Technology Development LLC
number: 09563620
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140602
---
Technologies described herein pertain generally to string matching and more particularly to aggregation of string matching with respect to multiple data streams.

Unless otherwise indicated herein the approaches described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Data centers see business opportunities in offering an entire spectrum of services from virtualized basic hardware to turnkey task accomplishments. In particular any task that scales better for the data center operator than it does for users renting virtual machines is a candidate for data centers to offer as a turnkey service. As an example video transcoding is being offered by a data center operator as a turnkey service because it is difficult for users to run efficient video transcoding on arbitrary virtual machines.

String matching is another function by which data centers may scale better than individual users. Multipattern string matching is a general purpose function in which a processing module reports occurrences of a given set or dictionary string in a stream of data. Multipattern string matching arises in a number of applications including network intrusion detection digital forensics business analytics and natural language processing. In one example calculating the reach of a social media post involves recognizing and pulling all URLs out of a stream of data or detecting URLs that have various properties and then processing the specific posts to extract unique subscriber counts and the like. Similarly many consumer companies pay for access to feeds of various content posting streams in order to search for indications of feelings towards their products to either deal with discontent or promulgate positive crowd stories.

Realizing the value of multipattern search across multiple users has a number of challenges however. To realize such advantages a data center will need to find and unify similar search streams and then manage search and report ownership.

In one example embodiment a method may include one or more processors receiving a plurality of string matching requests with respect to a plurality of data streams and determining one or more opportunities for aggregation of string matching.

In another example embodiment a computer readable storage medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions executable by one or more processors to perform operations that include identifying similarity in a subset of requests of a plurality of string matching requests with respect to one or more data streams and aggregating string matching for the subset of requests of the plurality of string matching requests.

In yet another example embodiment an apparatus may include an aggregation determination module that includes a plurality of string matching units a stream registry unit a stream characterization unit and a stream provider portal unit. The string matching units are configured to receive a plurality of string matching requests with respect to a plurality of data streams perform string matching related to the plurality of data streams in response to the receiving and compose a combined dictionary from a plurality of dictionaries each of which including a respective plurality of strings. The stream registry unit is configured to register an identity of a first data stream of the plurality of data streams and generate a first output. The stream characterization unit is configured to extract information from the first data stream and generate a second output. The stream provider portal unit is configured to receive indication from one or more data providers that duplicate streams of data are provided to the one or more data providers and generate a third output.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the description. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. Furthermore unless otherwise noted the description of each successive drawing may reference features from one or more of the previous drawings to provide clearer context and a more substantive explanation of the current example embodiment. Still the example embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the drawings may be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

Many algorithms tend to scale better than linearly in number of terms searched and there are likely multiple users screening the same text input e.g. social media feeds stock prices etc. such that the total number of searches may be reduced as well. The output of these searches could be produced with fewer resources when a single search task is processing the terms of many users. Data centers would also benefit from joining together users who are searching the same streams by reducing the amount of data flowing into and around their networks and potentially by directing access to hardware that is designed for string matching. Customers using the same streams may even be on the same user account in the data center. For example some corporate entities may have multiple users or departments parsing the same internally generated data streams. Anything that data centers can do to reduce the resource consumption of such analytics will generate significant value.

Centralizing such functions in a data center provides a number of benefits for the operator of the data center. First multiple users within a data center may subscribe to the same feeds e.g. Gnip s social streams http gnip.com product overview and reducing the feeds to one copy of each stream may save money and bandwidth for both the data center and the stream provider. Second multipattern string matching scales very well with additional search terms. While single pattern search algorithms like Boyer Moore scale linearly in resource demand with regard to search term count multi pattern methods like Aho Corasick are sublinear with regard to search term count once the initial processing cost to construct the Aho Corasick tree is paid so that additional terms cost less. Exact reports of Aho Corasick scaling are highly variable due to the strong impact of coding and memory but it is clear that replacing e.g. twenty users doing Aho Corasick search with one unit doing the same search work would reduce processing requirements by five to ten times with additional gains made by removing duplicate search terms and streams.

The sublinear scaling of Aho Corasick and multipattern matching means that it is better regarding hardware resources to add more patterns to a single matcher than it is to run multiple matchers. Thus a data center may generate value from user aggregation by performing infrastructure string matching.

Another advantage is direct hardware access. Typically data centers have a border gateway function that includes network processors. These layers include session border controllers border gateways session aware load balancers multiservice security gateways or other similar equipment. These processors include matching engines for rapidly matching patterns in headers or packets themselves. The onset of software defined networks SDN means that such network functions are expected of general purpose server racks which points toward a generation of mixed general purpose and network processing chips and mainstream chips that are already appearing and include general purpose processors and hardware finite automata HFAs which are specifically designed for Aho Corasick matching. This further increases the potential value of infrastructure owned multipattern string matching. Specifically a data center implementing techniques of the present disclosure may likely not only reduce network usage by aggregating incoming streams across customers but also have advantages of both algorithm scaling and hardware acceleration that are not readily available to datacenter users.

The example embodiments for infrastructure string matching described herein detect that multiple users are parsing the same streams find ways to merge and aggregate them without losing data and deliver the results to different users.

Each of data providers is a respective source of data. For example as shown in data providers include repositories of data . Data providers are configured to provide data streams respectively to data center upon requests made by one or more of users e.g. via data center . Data center receives some or all of the data streams as streams and aggregates string matching with respect to streams before routing some or all of outputs to some or all of users . In the present disclosure users may refer to a set of computing devices and their respective human operators in that each computing device may be associated with and used by one or more human operators.

One or more processors of the one or more servers of data center may be configured to determine or otherwise identify one or more opportunities for aggregation of string matching with respect to streams and to perform aggregation of string matching when at least one opportunity is determined or otherwise identified. In some embodiments the one or more processors of the one or more servers may be configured to function as an aggregation determination module and a handoff management module to implement aggregation of string matching with respect to streams in accordance with the present disclosure.

String matching units include dictionaries respectively. That is each of string matching units includes a respective dictionary. String matching units may be configured to perform operations including receiving string matching requests from some or all of users with respect to streams performing string matching related to streams in response to receiving the requests from some or all of users and composing a combined dictionary from dictionaries each of which including a respective plurality of strings. Stream matching units may be set up by users e.g. via an application programming interface API call.

Stream registry unit may be configured to perform operations including registering an identity of each data stream e.g. of streams and generating a first output. In some embodiments in registering the identity of a given data stream stream registry unit may store a source identity an IP address a service provider or another identifier associated with the given data stream.

Stream characterization unit may be configured to perform operations including extracting information from each data stream of streams and generating a second output. Stream characterization unit may be flexible. Specifically for example in the strictest implementation two data streams of streams may have to be item by item identical before aggregation will occur. However the gains from search aggregation may be significant. Other components of aggregation determination module and handoff management module may be capable of sorting out by association that a user may not qualify for search results from a given stream because they may not have received that particular item. Accordingly in some cases it would make sense to aggregate streams that share 50 or less discrete items. In such a case the items that are not to be delivered to a given user may be tagged such that a user only receives the results from items such user is entitled to receive. The savings from multiuser pattern matching are sufficient to offset loss in reduction in search computation on a fraction of a given stream.

Stream provider portal unit may be configured to perform operations including receiving indication from one or more data providers e.g. data providers that duplicate streams of data are provided to the one or more data providers and generating a third output. Stream provider portal unit may allow data providers to inform data center of duplicate streams are being requested by one or more of users to be sent to the one or more users . In some embodiments such information may be available in the form of multicast instructions. Each of data providers may provide data to stream provider portal unit which identifies when multiple users or multiple installations within a single user have requested processing for the same stream. This in turn will trigger the sending of an aggregation signal as described below.

Stream aggregation management unit may be configured to receive the first output from stream registry unit the second output from stream characterization unit and the third output from stream provider portal unit . In response to receiving the first output the second output and the third output stream aggregation management unit may be further configured to identify a subset of requests of the string matching requests from some or all of users for processing of a given data stream to generate aggregation signal .

Time difference detection unit may be configured to perform operations including receiving aggregation signal and detecting a difference in time between at least two streams of the plurality of data streams. For example aggregation signal may identify matching feeds to time difference detection unit which detects leads and or lags between identical streams such as for different users of users who have subscribed to the same data service feed but might be receiving them through different connections. Those feeds may initially feed into some or all of single user string matching units which are individual user resources such as Storm bolts chosen from a data center library. Time difference detection may include observing the spacing between the occurrence of similar records on multiple input streams .

Stream redirection unit may be configured to redirect a leading stream of streams and to activate output routing for a given request of the subset of requests. Stream redirection unit may also be configured to delay redirection of one or more next leading streams of streams and activate output routing for associated one or more requests of the subset of requests. That is stream redirection unit may capture the incoming streams and singulate streams and may send a suppression message to the originator and or add tags to the singulated stream such as to indicate which users are entitled to output from each record. The singulated stream is provided to multiuser string matching unit .

Multiuser string matching unit may be configured to provide tagged results of string matching. The results are tagged so that each result is associate with a respective one of some or all of users that correspond to the subset of requests. In some embodiments in providing the tagged results of string matching multiuser string matching unit may perform operations including tagging each stream of streams with identities of the multiple users among users processing streams to generate the results of string matching and tagging the results of string matching to associate the results with the multiple users. In some embodiments multiuser string matching unit may process streams by using one or more finite state automata and using the Aho Corasick string matching algorithm.

Output routing unit may be configured to route the tagged results of string matching from each data stream to some or all of users . Output routing unit may be preserved and associated with a stream user term registry so that the correct results are sent to the associated user shown as the output from multiuser string matching unit returning to output routing unit in .

Handoff management module may receive aggregation signal detect lead or lag in the input streams compose a combined dictionary redirect the leading stream first while activating output to the first user of users and delay redirection of streams in lead lag order with activation of associated users until all the multiple users who request for the same stream among users are receiving results from the same stream. In some cases redirecting streams with a time difference may include tagging records a user may see multiple times due to switching leads and lags to prevent duplicate outputs or multiple counting of the same record. This may eliminate redundant network traffic while also joining string matching to take advantage of algorithmic complexity scaling.

Stream and user term registry unit may be configured to store a combined dictionary based on the dictionaries of string matching units 

Finite state automata may be configured to process data streams of streams to generate results of string matching. In some embodiments finite state automata process data streams using the Aho Corasick string matching algorithm.

Association and tagging unit may be configured to provide tagged or untagged results of string matching to associate each of the tagged or untagged results with a respective user among users corresponding to the requests therefrom. For example association and tagging unit may tag each stream of data streams with identities of some or all of users finite state automata may process data streams to generate the results of string matching and association and tagging unit may tag the results of string matching to associate the results with some or all of users who are entitled to receive the tagged results. The term registry may include associations of tags to each term.

As streams are received by multiuser string matching unit each string is associated at association and tagging unit with the users and search terms such as by tagging each stream with the identities of users observing that stream e.g. from stream and user term registry unit . The unique terms for each stream are sent by stream and user term registry unit to finite state automata or other pattern recognition unit to process the streams to generate results. At association and tagging unit the results are tagged with the appropriate users to provide them to output routing unit from which the tagged results may be sent selectively to the various users who originally set up processing of each target stream for each target term.

With reference to the aggregation that takes place at aggregation determination module and handoff management module takes multiple users and streams and discovers the converged combination of reduced streams and increased dictionaries to perform and redistribute all the relevant searches with fewer network and filtering resources. It is noteworthy that the actual string matching component e.g. finite state automata and dictionaries are not particularly strongly altered in the present disclosure beyond the support for gathering and parceling out of multiple user needs.

A single user e.g. data center account may actually have multiple copies of a single stream that the present disclosure may reduce within a data center. For example an e commerce customer may generate a clickstream which is then subscribed to by separate marketing product buying and web analytics teams who may have different development teams that place filters in front of the stream. In such cases the reduction of duplicate streams and duplicate string processing presented herein may be within the same user account. The data center may choose to indicate such savings are available and encourage the customer to formalize it to achieve greater stability and reduce complexity or alternatively may simply realize the gains and increase margins using techniques provided by the present disclosure.

Block Receive String Matching Requests Regarding Multiple Streams may refer to one or more processors receiving a plurality of string matching requests with respect to a plurality of data streams. For example one or more processors of the one or more servers in which aggregation determination module is implemented may receive or observe multiple string matching request from multiple users of users . . . with respect to data streams . Block may be followed by block . String matching may for example be perceived in user deployments as the implementation of available string matching tools or may be received as explicit commands to set up datacenter string matching tools.

Block Determine Opportunities For String Matching Aggregation may refer to the one or more processors determining one or more opportunities for aggregation of string matching. For example one or more processors of the one or more servers in which aggregation determination module is implemented may determine one or more opportunities for aggregation of string matching in accordance with the present disclosure.

In some embodiments in determining the opportunities processing flow may include registering an identity of a first data stream of the plurality of data streams and providing a first output. For example with reference to and stream registry unit of aggregation determination module may register an identity of the data stream of streams and provide a first output to stream aggregation management unit . In some embodiments in registering the identity processing flow may store a source identity an IP address a service provider or another identifier associated with the first data stream.

In some embodiments in determining the opportunities processing flow may also include extracting information from the first data stream and providing a second output. Continuing with the above example stream characterization unit of aggregation determination module may extract information from the data stream and provide a second output to stream aggregation management unit .

In some embodiments in determining the opportunities processing flow may further include receiving indication from one or more data providers that duplicate streams of data are provided to the one or more data providers and providing a third output. Continuing with the above example stream provider portal unit of aggregation determination module may receive indication from data providers and that duplicate streams of data are provided to one or more of users . In response to receiving such indication stream provider portal unit may provide a third output to stream aggregation management unit .

In some embodiments processing flow may also include identifying a subset of requests of the plurality of string matching requests for processing of the first data stream based on the first output the second output and the third output and further include triggering aggregation of string matching for the subset of requests. Continuing with the above example in response to receiving the first output second output and third output stream aggregation management unit of aggregation determination module may identify a subset of requests of the plurality of string matching requests for processing the data stream . Upon the identification of the subset of requests stream aggregation management unit may trigger aggregation of string matching for the subset of requests by generating and providing an aggregation signal .

Additionally processing flow may include aggregating string matching for the subset of requests in response to the triggering. For example upon receiving the aggregation signal from stream aggregation management unit of aggregation determination module handoff management module may aggregate string matching for the subset of requests.

In some embodiments in aggregating string matching processing flow may include detecting a difference in time between at least two streams of the plurality of data streams. Processing flow may also include composing a combined dictionary from a plurality of dictionaries each of which including a respective plurality of strings. For example time difference detection unit of handoff management module may detect difference in time e.g. leads and or lags between identical streams such as for different users who have subscribed to data center for the same data feed service but might be receiving the feeds through different connections and at different times. Additionally string matching units or alternatively multiuser string matching unit of handoff manager may compose and store a combined dictionary in the stream and user term registry unit based on the dictionaries of string matching units 

In some embodiments in aggregating string matching processing flow may also include redirecting a leading stream of the plurality of data streams and activating output routing for a first request of the subset of requests. Processing flow may further include delaying redirection of the one or more next leading streams in an order from leading to lagging in time with activation of output routing for the associated one or more requests until all the subset of requests are provided with results of string matching from the first data stream. For example stream redirection unit of handoff manager may redirect a leading stream e.g. data stream of streams and activate output routing unit of handoff manager to route a first request of the subset of requests from users . Additionally stream redirection unit may delay redirection of one or more of data streams in an order from leading to lagging in time with activation of output routing of data streams for the associated one or more requests until all the subset of requests are provided with results of string matching from the data stream

In some embodiments in aggregating string matching processing flow may further include providing tagged results of string matching that are tagged to associate each of the results with a respective one of multiple users that correspond to the subset of requests. Processing flow may additionally include routing the tagged results of string matching from the first data stream to the multiple users. For example the association and tagging unit of multiuser string matching unit may provide tagged results of string matching to associate each of the tagged results with a respective user among users corresponding to the requests therefrom. Additionally output routing unit may route the tagged results of string matching from data stream to some or all of users who are entitled to receive data stream

In some embodiments in providing the tagged results of string matching processing flow may include tagging each stream of the plurality of data streams with identities of the multiple users processing the plurality of data streams to generate the results of string matching and tagging the results of string matching to associate the results with the multiple users. For example association and tagging unit may tag each stream of data streams with identities of some or all of users finite state automata of multiuser string matching unit may process data streams to generate the results of string matching and association and tagging unit may tag the results of string matching to associate the results with some or all of users who are entitled to receive the tagged results.

In some embodiments in processing the data streams processing flow may process the data streams using the Aho Corasick string matching algorithm. For example the finite state automata may implement the Aho Corasick string matching algorithm in processing data streams 

Block Identify Similarity In String Matching Requests may refer to one or more processors identifying similarity in a subset of requests of a plurality of string matching requests with respect to one or more data streams. For example one or more processors of the one or more servers in which aggregation determination module is implemented may identify similarity in a subset of i.e. multiple requests of a set of string matching requests with respect to one or more data streams . Block may be followed by block .

Block Aggregate String Matching For Multiple String Matching Requests may refer to the one or more processors aggregating string matching for the subset of requests of the plurality of string matching requests. For example one or more processors of the one or more servers in which aggregation determination module is implemented may aggregate string matching for the subset of requests when there is similarity in the subset of requests.

In some embodiments in identifying similarity in the subset of requests processing flow may include characterizing the string matching requests and detecting opportunities for aggregation of string matching for the subset of requests. For example with reference to and aggregation determination module may be configured to characterize the string matching requests from users and detect opportunities for aggregation of string matching for the subset of requests.

In some embodiments in characterizing the string matching requests processing flow may include registering an identity of a first data stream of the plurality of data streams and providing a first output. For example stream registry unit of aggregation determination module may register an identity of the data stream of streams and provide a first output to stream aggregation management unit . In some embodiments in registering the identity processing flow may store a source identity an IP address a service provider or another identifier associated with the first data stream.

In some embodiments in characterizing the string matching requests processing flow may also include extracting information from the first data stream and providing a second output. Continuing with the above example stream characterization unit of aggregation determination module may extract information from the data stream and provide a second output to stream aggregation management unit .

In some embodiments in characterizing the string matching requests processing flow may further include receiving indication from one or more data providers that duplicate streams of data are provided to the one or more data providers and providing a third output. Continuing with the above example stream provider portal unit of aggregation determination module may receive indication from data providers and that duplicate streams of data are provided to one or more of users . In response to receiving such indication stream provider portal unit may provide a third output to stream aggregation management unit .

In some embodiments in detecting opportunities for aggregation processing flow may include identifying the subset of requests for processing of the first data stream based on the first output the second output and the third output. Continuing with the above example in response to receiving the first output second output and third output stream aggregation management unit of aggregation determination module may identify a subset of requests of the plurality of string matching requests for processing the data stream

In some embodiments in aggregating string matching processing flow may include managing combined dictionary composition and managing distribution of outputs for the plurality of string matching requests by adjusting for a difference in time in the one or more data streams. For example handoff management module may be configured to manage combined dictionary composition as well as manage distribution of outputs for the plurality of string matching requests by adjusting for a difference in time in the one or more data streams.

In some embodiments in managing combined dictionary composition processing flow may include composing a combined dictionary from a plurality of dictionaries each of which including a respective plurality of strings. For example string matching units or alternatively multiuser string matching unit of handoff manager may compose and store a combined dictionary in the stream and user term registry unit based on the dictionaries of string matching units . The combined dictionary may include indications of which terms are associated with users and terms may be associated with single or multiple users.

In some embodiments in adjusting for a difference in time processing flow may include redirecting a leading stream of the one or more data streams and activating output routing for a first request of the subset of requests. Processing flow may also include delaying redirection of the one or more next leading streams in an order from leading to lagging in time with activation of output routing for the associated one or more requests until all the subset of requests are provided with results of string matching from a first data stream of the one or more data streams. For example stream redirection unit of handoff manager may redirect a leading stream e.g. data stream of streams and activate output routing unit of handoff manager to route a first request of the subset of requests from users . Additionally stream redirection unit may delay redirection of one or more of data streams in an order from leading to lagging in time with activation of output routing of data streams for the associated one or more requests until all the subset of requests are provided with results of string matching from the data stream

In some embodiments in aggregating string matching processing flow may also include providing tagged results of string matching that are tagged to associate each of the results with a respective one of multiple users that correspond to the subset of requests. Processing flow may further include routing the tagged results of string matching from the first data stream to the multiple users. For example association and tagging unit of multiuser string matching unit may provide tagged results of string matching to associate each of the tagged results with a respective user among users corresponding to the requests therefrom. Additionally output routing unit may route the tagged results of string matching from data stream to some or all of users who are entitled to receive data stream

In some embodiments in providing the tagged results of string matching processing flow may include tagging each stream of the plurality of data streams with identities of the multiple users processing the plurality of data streams to generate the results of string matching and tagging the results of string matching to associate the results with the multiple users. For example association and tagging unit may tag each stream of data streams with identities of some or all of users finite state automata of multiuser string matching unit may process data streams to generate the results of string matching and association and tagging unit may tag the results of string matching to associate the results with some or all of users who are entitled to receive the tagged results.

In some embodiments in processing the data streams processing flow may process the data streams using the Aho Corasick string matching algorithm. For example the finite state automata may implement the Aho Corasick string matching algorithm in processing data streams 

In a very basic configuration computing device typically includes one or more processors and a system memory . A memory bus may be used for communicating between processor and system memory .

Depending on the desired configuration processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. Processor may include one more levels of caching such as a level one cache and a level two cache a processor core and registers . An example processor core may include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. An example memory controller may also be used with processor or in some implementations memory controller may be an internal part of processor .

Depending on the desired configuration system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. System memory may include an operating system aggregation determination module and handoff management module . Aggregation determination module may be similar to aggregation determination module of and perform functions as described herein with respect to . Handoff management module may be similar to handoff management module of and perform functions as described herein with respect to . Aggregation determination module includes data which may be useful for operation of aggregation determination module . Similarly handoff management module includes data which may be useful for operation of handoff management module . In some embodiments aggregation determination module may be arranged to operate with handoff management module e.g. in conjunction with or on operating system such that implementations of aggregation of string matching with respect to multiple data streams e.g. processing flow of and processing flow of may be provided as described herein. This described basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within the inner dashed line.

Computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between basic configuration and any required devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . Data storage devices may be removable storage devices non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

System memory removable storage devices and non removable storage devices are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices e.g. output devices peripheral interfaces and communication devices to basic configuration via bus interface controller . Example output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V ports . Example peripheral interfaces include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices e.g. keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices e.g. printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . An example communication device includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication link via one or more communication ports .

The network communication link may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein may include both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may be implemented as a portion of a small form factor portable or mobile electronic device such as a cell phone a smartphone a personal data assistant PDA a personal media player device a wireless web watch device a personal headset device an application specific device or a hybrid device that include any of the above functions. Computing device may also be implemented as a server or a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations.

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein may be implemented e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle may vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes for device configuration via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a CD a DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities. A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

Lastly with respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations. Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that various embodiments of the present disclosure have been described herein for purposes of illustration and that various modifications may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. Accordingly the various embodiments disclosed herein are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

