---

title: Ambiguous structured search queries on online social networks
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes accessing a social graph that includes a plurality of nodes and edges, receiving an unstructured text query comprising an ambiguous n-gram, identifying nodes and edges that correspond to the ambiguous n-gram, generating a first set of structured queries corresponding to the identified second nodes and edges, receiving from the first user a selection of a first structured query form the first set, and generating a second set of structured queries based on the selected first structured query.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09514218&OS=09514218&RS=09514218
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09514218
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140918
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 732 101 filed 31 Dec. 2012 which is a continuation in part under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 556 046 filed 23 Jul. 2012 which is a continuation in part under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 162 filed 19 Apr. 2010 each of which is incorporated by reference.

This disclosure generally relates to social graphs and performing searches for objects within a social networking environment.

A social networking system which may include a social networking website may enable its users such as persons or organizations to interact with it and with each other through it. The social networking system may with input from a user create and store in the social networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include demographic information communication channel information and information on personal interests of the user. The social networking system may also with input from a user create and store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social networking system as well as provide services e.g. wall posts photo sharing event organization messaging games or advertisements to facilitate social interaction between or among users.

The social networking system may transmit over one or more networks content or messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing device of a user. A user may also install software applications on a mobile or other computing device of the user for accessing a user profile of the user and other data within the social networking system. The social networking system may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a user such as a newsfeed of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.

Social graph analysis views social relationships in terms of network theory consisting of nodes and edges. Nodes represent the individual actors within the networks and edges represent the relationships between the actors. The resulting graph based structures are often very complex. There can be many types of nodes and many types of edges for connecting nodes. In its simplest form a social graph is a map of all of the relevant edges between all the nodes being studied.

In particular embodiments in response to a text query received from a user a social networking system may generate structured queries that include references to particular social graph elements. By providing suggested structured queries in response to a user s text query the social networking system may provide a powerful way for users of an online social network to search for elements represented in a social graph based on their social graph attributes and their relation to various social graph elements.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may parse queries containing ambiguous terms with structured queries. The social networking system may receive an unstructured text query from a user that contains an ambiguous n gram. In response the social networking system may access a social graph and then parse the text query to identify social graph elements that corresponded to ambiguous n grams from the text query. A term in a query may be ambiguous when it possibly matches multiple social graph elements. The social networking system may generate a set of structured queries where each structured query corresponds to one of the possible matching social graph elements. The querying user may then select among the structured queries to indicate which social graph element the querying user intended to reference with the ambiguous term. In response to the querying user s selection the social networking system may then effectively lock the ambiguous term to the social graph element selected by the querying user and then generate a new set of structured queries based on the selected social graph element.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may generate a set of default structured queries for a page of the online social network. The social networking system may identify a page that a user is currently viewing or otherwise accessing and then identifying any social graph elements corresponding to that page. The social graph elements corresponding to a page may be for example the node corresponding to a user or concept profile page or the nodes edges referenced in a structured query used to generate a particular search results page. The social networking system may then generate a set of default structured queries for the page based on the identified social graph elements for that page. For example when accessing a user profile page for the user Mark some of the default structured queries for that page may include Friends of Mark or Photos of Mark . These default structured queries may then be transmitted and presented to the user.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system social networking system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

In particular embodiments client system may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client system . As an example and not by way of limitation a client system may include a computer system such as a desktop computer notebook or laptop computer netbook a tablet computer e book reader GPS device camera personal digital assistant PDA handheld electronic device cellular telephone smartphone other suitable electronic device or any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems . A client system may enable a network user at client system to access network . A client system may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems .

In particular embodiments client system may include a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER GOOGLE CHROME or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system may enter a Uniform Resource Locator URL or other address directing the web browser to a particular server such as server or a server associated with a third party system and the web browser may generate a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system one or more Hyper Text Markup Language HTML files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system may render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation webpages may render from HTML files Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language XHTML files or Extensible Markup Language XML files according to particular needs. Such pages may also execute scripts such as for example and without limitation those written in JAVASCRIPT JAVA MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT combinations of markup language and scripts such as AJAX Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML and the like. Herein reference to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files which a browser may use to render the webpage and vice versa where appropriate.

In particular embodiments social networking system may be a network addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social networking system may generate store receive and transmit social networking data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social networking system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more servers . Each server may be a unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server proxy server another server suitable for performing functions or processes described herein or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more data stores . Data stores may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data stores may be organized according to specific data structures. In particular embodiments each data store may be a relational database. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system a social networking system or a third party system to manage retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data store .

In particular embodiments social networking system may store one or more social graphs in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments a social graph may include multiple nodes which may include multiple user nodes each corresponding to a particular user or multiple concept nodes each corresponding to a particular concept and multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social networking system may provide users of the online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular embodiments users may join the online social network via social networking system and then add connections i.e. relationships to a number of other users of social networking system whom they want to be connected to. Herein the term friend may refer to any other user of social networking system with whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via social networking system .

In particular embodiments social networking system may provide users with the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects supported by social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation the items and objects may include groups or social networks to which users of social networking system may belong events or calendar entries in which a user might be interested computer based applications that a user may use transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service interactions with advertisements that a user may perform or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact with anything that is capable of being represented in social networking system or by an external system of third party system which is separate from social networking system and coupled to social networking system via a network .

In particular embodiments social networking system may be capable of linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation social networking system may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third party systems or other entities or to allow users to interact with these entities through an application programming interfaces API or other communication channels.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include one or more types of servers one or more data stores one or more interfaces including but not limited to APIs one or more web services one or more content sources one or more networks or any other suitable components e.g. that servers may communicate with. A third party system may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social networking system . In particular embodiments however social networking system and third party systems may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social networking services to users of social networking system or third party systems . In this sense social networking system may provide a platform or backbone which other systems such as third party systems may use to provide social networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.

In particular embodiments a third party system may include a third party content object provider. A third party content object provider may include one or more sources of content objects which may be communicated to a client system . As an example and not by way of limitation content objects may include information regarding things or activities of interest to the user such as for example movie show times movie reviews restaurant reviews restaurant menus product information and reviews or other suitable information. As another example and not by way of limitation content objects may include incentive content objects such as coupons discount tickets gift certificates or other suitable incentive objects.

In particular embodiments social networking system also includes user generated content objects which may enhance a user s interactions with social networking system . User generated content may include anything a user can add upload send or post to social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user communicates posts to social networking system from a client system . Posts may include data such as status updates or other textual data location information photos videos links music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social networking system by a third party through a communication channel such as a newsfeed or stream.

In particular embodiments social networking system may include a variety of servers sub systems programs modules logs and data stores. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more of the following a web server action logger API request server relevance and ranking engine content object classifier notification controller action log third party content object exposure log inference module authorization privacy server search module ad targeting module user interface module user profile store connection store third party content store or location store. Social networking system may also include suitable components such as network interfaces security mechanisms load balancers failover servers management and network operations consoles other suitable components or any suitable combination thereof. In particular embodiments social networking system may include one or more user profile stores for storing user profiles. A user profile may include for example biographic information demographic information behavioral information social information or other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences interests affinities or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user likes an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand or the general category of shoes or clothing. A connection store may be used for storing connection information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies educational history or are in any way related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user defined connections between different users and content both internal and external . A web server may be used for linking social networking system to one or more client systems or one or more third party system via network . The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social networking system and one or more client systems . An API request server may allow a third party system to access information from social networking system by calling one or more APIs. An action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user s actions on or off social networking system . In conjunction with the action log a third party content object log may be maintained of user exposures to third party content objects. A notification controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system . Information may be pushed to a client system as notifications or information may be pulled from client system responsive to a request received from client system . Authorization servers may be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social networking system . A privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in or opt out of having their actions logged by social networking system or shared with other systems e.g. third party system such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third party content object stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties such as a third party system . Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client systems associated with users. Ad pricing modules may combine social information the current time location information or other suitable information to provide relevant advertisements in the form of notifications to a user.

In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to a user of social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over social networking system . In particular embodiments when a user registers for an account with social networking system social networking system may create a user node corresponding to the user and store the user node in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to registered users and user nodes associated with registered users. In addition or as an alternative users and user nodes described herein may where appropriate refer to users that have not registered with social networking system . In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with information provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation a user may provide his or her name profile picture contact information birth date sex marital status family status employment education background preferences interests or other demographic information. In particular embodiments a user node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with a user. In particular embodiments a user node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to a concept. As an example and not by way of limitation a concept may correspond to a place such as for example a movie theater restaurant landmark or city a website such as for example a website associated with social network system or a third party website associated with a web application server an entity such as for example a person business group sports team or celebrity a resource such as for example an audio file video file digital photo text file structured document or application which may be located within social networking system or on an external server such as a web application server real or intellectual property such as for example a sculpture painting movie game song idea photograph or written work a game an activity an idea or theory another suitable concept or two or more such concepts. A concept node may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or information gathered by various systems including social networking system . As an example and not by way of limitation information of a concept may include a name or a title one or more images e.g. an image of the cover page of a book a location e.g. an address or a geographical location a website which may be associated with a URL contact information e.g. a phone number or an email address other suitable concept information or any suitable combination of such information. In particular embodiments a concept node may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept node . In particular embodiments a concept node may correspond to one or more webpages.

In particular embodiments a node in social graph may represent or be represented by a webpage which may be referred to as a profile page . Profile pages may be hosted by or accessible to social networking system . Profile pages may also be hosted on third party websites associated with a third party server . As an example and not by way of limitation a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node . Profile pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way of limitation a user node may have a corresponding user profile page in which the corresponding user may add content make declarations or otherwise express himself or herself. As another example and not by way of limitation a concept node may have a corresponding concept profile page in which one or more users may add content make declarations or express themselves particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node .

In particular embodiments a concept node may represent a third party webpage or resource hosted by a third party system . The third party webpage or resource may include among other elements content a selectable or other icon or other inter actable object which may be implemented for example in JavaScript AJAX or PHP codes representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation a third party webpage may include a selectable icon such as like check in eat recommend or another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third party webpage may perform an action by selecting one of the icons e.g. eat causing a client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s action. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge e.g. an eat edge between a user node corresponding to the user and a concept node corresponding to the third party webpage or resource and store edge in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments a pair of nodes in social graph may be connected to each other by one or more edges . An edge connecting a pair of nodes may represent a relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments an edge may include or represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may indicate that a second user is a friend of the first user. In response to this indication social networking system may transmit a friend request to the second user. If the second user confirms the friend request social networking system may create an edge connecting the first user s user node to the second user s user node in social graph and store edge as social graph information in one or more of data stores . In the example of social graph includes an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user A and user B and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes of user C and user B. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges with particular attributes connecting particular user nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent a friendship family relationship business or employment relationship fan relationship follower relationship visitor relationship subscriber relationship superior subordinate relationship reciprocal relationship non reciprocal relationship another suitable type of relationship or two or more such relationships. Moreover although this disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected this disclosure also describes users or concepts as being connected. Herein references to users or concepts being connected may where appropriate refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected in social graph by one or more edges .

In particular embodiments an edge between a user node and a concept node may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user node toward a concept associated with a concept node . As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in a user may like attended played listened cooked worked at or watched a concept each of which may correspond to a edge type or subtype. A concept profile page corresponding to a concept node may include for example a selectable check in icon such as for example a clickable check in icon or a selectable add to favorites icon. Similarly after a user clicks these icons social networking system may create a favorite edge or a check in edge in response to a user s action corresponding to a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation a user user C may listen to a particular song Imagine using a particular application SPOTIFY which is an online music application . In this case social networking system may create a listened edge and a used edge as illustrated in between user nodes corresponding to the user and concept nodes corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover social networking system may create a played edge as illustrated in between concept nodes corresponding to the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular application. In this case played edge corresponds to an action performed by an external application SPOTIFY on an external audio file the song Imagine . Although this disclosure describes particular edges with particular attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges with any suitable attributes connecting user nodes and concept nodes . Moreover although this disclosure describes edges between a user node and a concept node representing a single relationship this disclosure contemplates edges between a user node and a concept node representing one or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation an edge may represent both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively another edge may represent each type of relationship or multiples of a single relationship between a user node and a concept node as illustrated in between user node for user E and concept node for SPOTIFY .

In particular embodiments social networking system may create an edge between a user node and a concept node in social graph . As an example and not by way of limitation a user viewing a concept profile page such as for example by using a web browser or a special purpose application hosted by the user s client system may indicate that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node by clicking or selecting a Like icon which may cause the user s client system to transmit to social networking system a message indicating the user s liking of the concept associated with the concept profile page. In response to the message social networking system may create an edge between user node associated with the user and concept node as illustrated by like edge between the user and concept node . In particular embodiments social networking system may store an edge in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments an edge may be automatically formed by social networking system in response to a particular user action. As an example and not by way of limitation if a first user uploads a picture watches a movie or listens to a song an edge may be formed between user node corresponding to the first user and concept nodes corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure describes forming particular edges in particular manners this disclosure contemplates forming any suitable edges in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments an advertisement may be text which may be HTML linked one or more images which may be HTML linked one or more videos audio one or more ADOBE FLASH files a suitable combination of these or any other suitable advertisement in any suitable digital format presented on one or more webpages in one or more e mails or in connection with search results requested by a user . In addition or as an alternative an advertisement may be one or more sponsored stories e.g. a news feed or ticker item on social networking system . A sponsored story may be a social action by a user such as liking a page liking or commenting on a post on a page RSVPing to an event associated with a page voting on a question posted on a page checking in to a place using an application or playing a game or liking or sharing a website that an advertiser promotes by for example having the social action presented within a pre determined area of a profile page of a user or other page presented with additional information associated with the advertiser bumped up or otherwise highlighted within news feeds or tickers of other users or otherwise promoted. The advertiser may pay to have the social action promoted.

In particular embodiments an advertisement may be requested for display within social networking system webpages third party webpages or other pages. An advertisement may be displayed in a dedicated portion of a page such as in a banner area at the top of the page in a column at the side of the page in a GUI of the page in a pop up window in a drop down menu in an input field of the page over the top of content of the page or elsewhere with respect to the page. In addition or as an alternative an advertisement may be displayed within an application. An advertisement may be displayed within dedicated pages requiring the user to interact with or watch the advertisement before the user may access a page or utilize an application. The user may for example view the advertisement through a web browser.

A user may interact with an advertisement in any suitable manner. The user may click or otherwise select the advertisement. By selecting the advertisement the user may be directed to or a browser or other application being used by the user a page associated with the advertisement. At the page associated with the advertisement the user may take additional actions such as purchasing a product or service associated with the advertisement receiving information associated with the advertisement or subscribing to a newsletter associated with the advertisement. An advertisement with audio or video may be played by selecting a component of the advertisement like a play button . Alternatively by selecting the advertisement the social networking system may execute or modify a particular action of the user. As an example and not by way of limitation advertisements may be included among the search results of a search results page where sponsored content is promoted over non sponsored content. As another example and not by way of limitation advertisements may be included among suggested search query where suggested queries that reference the advertiser or its content products may be promoted over non sponsored queries.

An advertisement may include social networking system functionality that a user may interact with. For example an advertisement may enable a user to like or otherwise endorse the advertisement by selecting an icon or link associated with endorsement. As another example an advertisement may enable a user to search e.g. by executing a query for content related to the advertiser. Similarly a user may share the advertisement with another user e.g. through social networking system or RSVP e.g. through social networking system to an event associated with the advertisement. In addition or as an alternative an advertisement may include social networking system context directed to the user. For example an advertisement may display information about a friend of the user within social networking system who has taken an action associated with the subject matter of the advertisement.

In particular embodiments one or more client side and or backend server side processes may implement and utilize a typeahead feature that may automatically attempt to match social graph elements e.g. user nodes concept nodes or edges to information currently being entered by a user in an input form rendered in conjunction with a requested webpage such as for example a user profile page a concept profile page a search results webpage or another suitable page of the online social network which may be hosted by or accessible in the social networking system . In particular embodiments as a user is entering text to make a declaration the typeahead feature may attempt to match the string of textual characters being entered in the declaration to strings of characters e.g. names descriptions corresponding to user concepts or edges and their corresponding elements in the social graph . In particular embodiments when a match is found the typeahead feature may automatically populate the form with a reference to the social graph element such as for example the node name type node ID edge name type edge ID or another suitable reference or identifier of the existing social graph element.

In particular embodiments as a user types or otherwise enters text into a form used to add content or make declarations in various sections of the user s profile page home page or other page the typeahead process may work in conjunction with one or more frontend client side and or backend server side typeahead processes hereinafter referred to simply as typeahead process executing at or within the social networking system e.g. within servers to interactively and virtually instantaneously as appearing to the user attempt to auto populate the form with a term or terms corresponding to names of existing social graph elements or terms associated with existing social graph elements determined to be the most relevant or best match to the characters of text entered by the user as the user enters the characters of text. Utilizing the social graph information in a social graph database or information extracted and indexed from the social graph database including information associated with nodes and edges the typeahead processes in conjunction with the information from the social graph database as well as potentially in conjunction with various others processes applications or databases located within or executing within social networking system may be able to predict a user s intended declaration with a high degree of precision. However the social networking system can also provides user s with the freedom to enter essentially any declaration they wish enabling users to express themselves freely.

In particular embodiments as a user enters text characters into a form box or other field the typeahead processes may attempt to identify existing social graph elements e.g. user nodes concept nodes or edges that match the string of characters entered in the user s declaration as the user is entering the characters. In particular embodiments as the user enters characters into a form box the typeahead process may read the string of entered textual characters. As each keystroke is made the frontend typeahead process may transmit the entered character string as a request or call to the backend typeahead process executing within social networking system . In particular embodiments the typeahead processes may communicate via AJAX Asynchronous JavaScript and XML or other suitable techniques and particularly asynchronous techniques. In particular embodiments the request may be or comprise an XMLHTTPRequest XHR enabling quick and dynamic sending and fetching of results. In particular embodiments the typeahead process may also transmit before after or with the request a section identifier section ID that identifies the particular section of the particular page in which the user is making the declaration. In particular embodiments a user ID parameter may also be sent but this may be unnecessary in some embodiments as the user may already be known based on the user having logged into or otherwise been authenticated by the social networking system .

In particular embodiments the typeahead process may use one or more matching algorithms to attempt to identify matching social graph elements. In particular embodiments when a match or matches are found the typeahead process may transmit a response which may utilize AJAX or other suitable techniques to the user s client system that may include for example the names name strings or descriptions of the matching social graph elements as well as potentially other metadata associated with the matching social graph elements. As an example and not by way of limitation if a user entering the characters pok into a query field the typeahead process may display a drop down menu that displays names of matching existing profile pages and respective user nodes or concept nodes such as a profile page named or devoted to poker or pokemon which the user can then click on or otherwise select thereby confirming the desire to declare the matched user or concept name corresponding to the selected node. As another example and not by way of limitation upon clicking poker the typeahead process may auto populate or causes the web browser to auto populate the query field with the declaration poker . In particular embodiments the typeahead process may simply auto populate the field with the name or other identifier of the top ranked match rather than display a drop down menu. The user may then confirm the auto populated declaration simply by keying enter on his or her keyboard or by clicking on the auto populated declaration.

More information on typeahead processes may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 763 162 filed 19 Apr. 2010 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 556 072 filed 23 Jul. 2012 which are incorporated by reference.

In particular embodiments the typeahead processes described herein may be applied to search queries entered by a user. As an example and not by way of limitation as a user enters text characters into a search field a typeahead process may attempt to identify one or more user nodes concept nodes or edges that match the string of characters entered search field as the user is entering the characters. As the typeahead process receives requests or calls including a string or n gram from the text query the typeahead process may perform or causes to be performed a search to identify existing social graph elements i.e. user nodes concept nodes edges having respective names types categories or other identifiers matching the entered text. The typeahead process may use one or more matching algorithms to attempt to identify matching nodes or edges. When a match or matches are found the typeahead process may transmit a response to the user s client system that may include for example the names name strings of the matching nodes as well as potentially other metadata associated with the matching nodes. The typeahead process may then display a drop down menu that displays names of matching existing profile pages and respective user nodes or concept nodes and displays names of matching edges that may connect to the matching user nodes or concept nodes which the user can then click on or otherwise select thereby confirming the desire to search for the matched user or concept name corresponding to the selected node or to search for users or concepts connected to the matched users or concepts by the matching edges. Alternatively the typeahead process may simply auto populate the form with the name or other identifier of the top ranked match rather than display a drop down menu . The user may then confirm the auto populated declaration simply by keying enter on a keyboard or by clicking on the auto populated declaration. Upon user confirmation of the matching nodes and edges the typeahead process may transmit a request that informs the social networking system of the user s confirmation of a query containing the matching social graph elements. In response to the request transmitted the social networking system may automatically or alternately based on an instruction in the request call or otherwise search a social graph database for the matching social graph elements or for social graph elements connected to the matching social graph elements as appropriate. Although this disclosure describes applying the typeahead processes to search queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates applying the typeahead processes to search queries in any suitable manner.

In connection with search queries and search results particular embodiments may utilize one or more systems components elements functions methods operations or steps disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 503 093 filed 11 Aug. 2006 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 977 027 filed 22 Dec. 2010 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 978 265 filed 23 Dec. 2010 which are incorporated by reference.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may receive from a querying first user corresponding to a first user node an unstructured text query. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may want to search for other users who 1 are first degree friends of the first user and 2 are associated with Stanford University i.e. the user nodes are connected by an edge to the concept node corresponding to the school Stanford . The first user may then enter a text query friends stanford into query field as illustrated in . As the querying user enters this text query into query field the social networking system may provide various suggested structured queries as illustrated in drop down menus . As used herein an unstructured text query refers to a simple text string inputted by a user. The text query may of course be structured with respect to standard language grammar rules e.g. English language grammar . However the text query will ordinarily be unstructured with respect to social graph elements. In other words a simple text query will not ordinarily include embedded references to particular social graph elements. Thus as used herein a structured query refers to a query that contains references to particular social graph elements allowing the search engine to search based on the identified elements. Furthermore the text query may be unstructured with respect to formal query syntax. In other words a simple text query will not necessarily be in the format of a query command that is directly executable by a search engine e.g. the text query friends stanford could be parsed to form the query command intersect school Stanford University friends me which could be executed as a query in a social graph database . Although this disclosure describes receiving particular queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates receiving any suitable queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may parse the unstructured text query also simply referred to as a search query received from the first user i.e. the querying user to identify one or more n grams. In general an n gram is a contiguous sequence of n items from a given sequence of text or speech. The items may be characters phonemes syllables letters words base pairs prefixes or other identifiable items from the sequence of text or speech. The n gram may comprise one or more characters of text letters numbers punctuation etc. entered by the querying user. An n gram of size one can be referred to as a unigram of size two can be referred to as a bigram or digram of size three can be referred to as a trigram and so on. Each n gram may include one or more parts from the text query received from the querying user. In particular embodiments each n gram may comprise a character string e.g. one or more characters of text entered by the first user. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may parse the text query friends stanford to identify the following n grams friends stanford friends stanford. As another example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may parse the text query friends in palo alto to identify the following n grams friends in palo alto friends in in palo palo alto friend in palo in palo also friends in palo alto. In particular embodiments each n gram may comprise a contiguous sequence of n items from the text query. Although this disclosure describes parsing particular queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates parsing any suitable queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may identify a plurality of nodes or a plurality of edges corresponding to one or more of the n grams of a text query. Identifying social graph elements that correspond to an n gram may be done in a variety of manners such as for example by determining or calculating for each n gram identified in the text query a score that the n gram corresponds to a social graph element. The score may be for example a confidence score a probability a quality a ranking another suitable type of score or any combination thereof. As an example and not by way of limitation the social networking system may determine a probability score also referred to simply as a probability that the n gram corresponds to a social graph element such as a user node a concept node or an edge of social graph . The probability score may indicate the level of similarity or relevance between the n gram and a particular social graph element. There may be many different ways to calculate the probability. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable method to calculate a probability score for an n gram identified in a search query. In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine a probability p that an n gram corresponds to a particular social graph element. The probability p may be calculated as the probability of corresponding to a particular social graph element k given a particular search query X. In other words the probability may be calculated as p k X . As an example and not by way of limitation a probability that an n gram corresponds to a social graph element may calculated as an probability score denoted as p. The input may be a text query X x x . . . x and a set of classes. For each i j and a class k the social networking system may compute p p class x k X . As an example and not by way of limitation the n gram stanford could be scored with respect to the following social graph elements as follows school Stanford University 0.7 location Stanford California 0.2 user Allen Stanford 0.1. In this example because the n gram stanford corresponds to multiple social graph elements it may be considered an ambiguous n gram by the social networking system . In other words the n gram is not immediately resolvable to a single social graph element based on the parsing algorithm used by the social networking system . In particular embodiments after identifying an ambiguous n gram the social networking system may highlight that n gram in the text query to indicate that it may correspond to multiple social graph elements. As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in the term Stanford in query field has been highlighted with a dashed underline to indicate that it may correspond to multiple social graph elements as discussed previously. As another example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in the term facebook has been highlighted with a dashed underline to indicate that it may correspond to multiple social graph elements. Although this disclosure describes determining whether n grams correspond to social graph elements in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining whether n grams correspond to social graph elements in any suitable manner. Moreover although this disclosure describes determining whether an n gram corresponds to a social graph element using a particular type of score this disclosure contemplates determining whether an n gram corresponds to a social graph element using any suitable type of score.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may determine the probability that a particular n gram corresponds to a social graph element based social graph information. As an example and not by way of limitation when determining a probability p that an n gram corresponds to a particular social graph element the calculation of the probability may also factor in social graph information. Thus the probability of corresponding to a particular social graph element k given a particular search query X and social graph information G may be calculated as p k X G . In particular embodiments the probability that an n gram corresponds to a particular node may be based on the degree of separation between the first user node and the particular node. A particular n gram may have a higher probability of corresponding to a social graph element that is closer in the social graph to the querying user i.e. fewer degrees of separation between the element and the first user node than a social graph element that is further from the user i.e. more degrees of separation . As an example and not by way of limitation referencing if user B inputs a text query of chicken the calculated probability that this corresponds to the concept node for the recipe Chicken Parmesan which is connected to user B by an edge may be higher than the calculated probability that this n gram corresponds to other nodes associated with the n gram chicken e.g. concept nodes corresponding to chicken nuggets or funky chicken dance that are not connected to user B in the social graph . In particular embodiments the probability that an n gram corresponds to a particular node may be based on the search history associated with the querying user. Social graph elements that the querying user has previously accessed or are relevant to the social graph elements that the querying user has previously accessed may be more likely to be the target of the querying user s search query. As an example and not by way of limitation if first user has previously visited a the Facebook Culinary Team profile page but has never visited the Facebook Studio profile page when determining the probability that the n gram facebook corresponds to either of the concept nodes corresponding to these pages the social networking system may determine that the concept node for Facebook Culinary Team has a relatively higher probability of corresponding to the n gram facebook because the querying user has previously accessed that concept node and may in fact already be connected to that node with a viewed edge . Although this disclosure describes determining whether n grams correspond to social graph elements in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates determining whether n grams correspond to social graph elements in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may identify one or more edges having a probability greater than an edge threshold probability. Each of the identified edges may correspond to at least one of the n grams. As an example and not by way of limitation the n gram may only be identified as corresponding to an edge k if p p. In particular embodiments the social networking system may identify a plurality of edges or edge types as corresponding to a particular n gram. In such a case the n gram may be considered an ambiguous n gram by the social networking system because multiple edges have a probability pthat is greater than p. As an example and not by way of limitation the n gram work could be scored with respect to the following social graph elements as follows edge type work at 0.6 edge type worked at 0.39 edge type lives in 0.01. If the edge threshold probability is equal to 0.25 then the edge types corresponding to work at and worked at may be identified because they have probabilities greater than the edge threshold probability while the edge type corresponding to lives in would not be identified because its probability is not greater than the edge threshold probability. Consequently because the social networking system identified multiple edge types as corresponding to the n gram work that n gram may be considered ambiguous. In particular embodiments each of the identified edges may be connected to at least one of the identified nodes. In other words the social networking system may only identify edges or edge types that are connected to user nodes or concept nodes that have previously been identified as corresponding to a particular n gram. Although this disclosure describes identifying edges that correspond to n grams in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates identifying edges that correspond to n grams in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may identify one or more user nodes or concept nodes having a probability greater than a node threshold probability. Each of the identified nodes may correspond to at least one of the n grams. As an example and not by way of limitation the n gram may only be identified as corresponding to a node k if p p. In particular embodiments the social networking system may identify a plurality of edges or edge types as corresponding to a particular n gram. In such a case the n gram may be considered an ambiguous n gram by the social networking system because multiple edges have a probability p that is greater than p. As an example and not by way of limitation the n gram facebook could be scored with respect to the following social graph elements as follows company Facebook 0.8 group Facebook Culinary Team 0.15 website Facebook Studio 0.05. If the node threshold probability is equal to 0.1 then the concept nodes corresponding to Facebook and Facebook Culinary Team may be identified because they have probabilities greater than the node threshold probability while the concept node corresponding to Facebook Studio would not be identified because its probability is not greater than the node threshold probability. Consequently because the social networking system identified multiple concept nodes as corresponding to the n gram facebook that n gram may be considered ambiguous. In particular embodiments each of the identified user nodes or concept nodes may be connected to at least one of the identified edges . In other words the social networking system may only identify nodes or nodes types that are connected to edges that have previously been identified as corresponding to a particular n gram. In particular embodiments the social networking system may only identify nodes that are within a threshold degree of separation of the user node corresponding to the first user i.e. the querying user . The threshold degree of separation may be for example one two three or all. Although this disclosure describes identifying nodes that correspond to n grams in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates identifying nodes that correspond to n grams in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may access a context free grammar model comprising a plurality of grammars. Each grammar of the grammar model may comprise one or more non terminal tokens or non terminal symbols and one or more terminal tokens or terminal symbols query tokens where particular non terminal tokens may be replaced by terminal tokens. A grammar model is a set of formation rules for strings in a formal language. Although this disclosure describes accessing particular grammars this disclosure contemplates any suitable grammars.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may generate one or more strings using one or more grammars. To generate a string in the language one begins with a string consisting of only a single start symbol. The production rules are then applied in any order until a string that contains neither the start symbol nor designated non terminal symbols is produced. In a context free grammar the production of each non terminal symbol of the grammar is independent of what is produced by other non terminal symbols of the grammar. The non terminal symbols may be replaced with terminal symbols i.e. terminal tokens or query tokens . Some of the query tokens may correspond to identified nodes or identified edges as described previously. A string generated by the grammar may then be used as the basis for a structured query containing references to the identified nodes or identified edges. The string generated by the grammar may be rendered in a natural language syntax such that a structured query based on the string is also rendered in natural language. A context free grammar is a grammar in which the left hand side of each production rule consists of only a single non terminal symbol. A probabilistic context free grammar is a tuple E N S P where the disjoint sets and N specify the terminal and non terminal symbols respectively with S N being the start symbol. P is the set of productions which take the form E p with E N N and p Pr E the probability that E will be expanded into the string . The sum of probabilities p over all expansions of a given non terminal E must be one. Although this disclosure describes generating strings in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates generating strings in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may generate one or more structured queries. The structured queries may be based on the natural language strings generated by one or more grammars as described previously. Each structured query may include references to one or more of the identified nodes or one or more of the identified edges . This type of structured query may allow the social networking system to more efficiently search for resources and content related to the online social network such as for example profile pages by searching for content connected to or otherwise related to the identified user nodes and the identified edges . As an example and not by way of limitation in response to the text query show me friends of my girlfriend the social networking system may generate a structured query Friends of Stephanie where Friends and Stephanie in the structured query are references corresponding to particular social graph elements. The reference to Stephanie would correspond to a particular user node where the social networking system has parsed the n gram my girlfriend to correspond with a user node for the user Stephanie while the reference to Friends would correspond to friend type edges connecting that user node to other user nodes i.e. edges connecting to Stephanie s first degree friends . When executing this structured query the social networking system may identify one or more user nodes connected by friend type edges to the user node corresponding to Stephanie . As another example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in in response to the text query friends who like facebook the social networking system may generate a structured query Friends who like Facebook where Friends like and Facebook in the structured query are references corresponding to particular social graph elements as described previously i.e. a friend type edge a like type edge and concept node corresponding to the company Facebook . Although this disclosure describes generating particular structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates generating any suitable structured queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may rank the generated structured queries. The structured queries may be ranked based on a variety of factors. Where the text query received from the querying user contains an ambiguous n gram the suggested structured queries generated in response to that text query may be ranked for example in order of the probability or likelihood that the identified nodes edges referenced in those structured queries match the intent of the querying user as determined by the social networking system . After ranking the structured queries the social networking system may then transmit only those structured queries having a rank greater than a threshold rank e.g. the top seven ranked queries may be transmitted to the querying user and displayed in a drop down menu . In particular embodiments the rank for a structured query may be based on the degree of separation between the user node of the querying user and the particular social graph elements referenced in the structured query. Structured queries that reference social graph elements that are closer in the social graph to the querying user i.e. fewer degrees of separation between the element and the querying user s user node may be ranked more highly than structured queries that reference social graph elements that are further from the user i.e. more degrees of separation . In particular embodiments the social networking system may rank the structured queries based on a search history associated with the querying user. Structured queries that reference social graph elements that the querying user has previously accessed or are relevant to the social graph elements the querying user has previously accessed may be more likely to be the target of the querying user s search query. Thus these structured queries may be ranked more highly. As an example and not by way of limitation if querying user has previously visited the Stanford University profile page but has never visited the Stanford California profile page when determining the rank for structured queries referencing these concepts the social networking system may determine that the structured query referencing the concept node for Stanford University has a relatively high rank because the querying user has previously accessed the concept node for the school. In particular embodiments the social networking system may rank the structured queries based on advertising sponsorship. An advertiser such as for example the user or administrator of a particular profile page corresponding to a particular node may sponsor a particular node such that a structured query referencing that node may be ranked more highly. Although this disclosure describes ranking structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates ranking structured queries in any suitable manner.

More information on generating structured queries and grammar models may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 674 695 filed 12 Nov. 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 731 866 filed 31 Dec. 2012 each of which is incorporated by reference.

In particular embodiments in response to receiving a text query comprising an ambiguous n gram the social networking system may generate a set of structured queries where each structured query in this set corresponds to an identified node or identified edge corresponding to the ambiguous n gram. Thus each of these structured queries may comprise a reference to the corresponding identified node or identified edge. For each identified node or identified edge corresponding to the ambiguous n gram the social networking system may generate at least one structured query referencing the identified node or identified edge. As discussed previously these structured queries may be presented to the querying user who can then select among the structured queries to indicate which social graph element the querying user intended to reference with the ambiguous term. In response to the querying user s selection the social networking system may then lock the ambiguous term in the query to the social graph element selected by the querying user and then generate a new set of structured queries based on the selected social graph element. As an example and not by way of limitation referencing in response to receiving the unstructured text query people who like facebook in query field the social networking system may generate a set of structured queries where each structured query references a social graph entity corresponding to one of the identified concept nodes that correspond to the ambiguous n gram facebook . In this example the set of structured queries includes references to Facebook Facebook Culinary Team and Facebook Camera among others each of which may have been identified by the social networking system as possibly corresponding to the ambiguous n gram facebook from the received text query. The querying user may then select one of the structured queries to select the particular concept referenced in the structured query and thereby lock the structured query to the concept node corresponding to the selected concept. For example if the querying user selected the first suggested structured query from the drop down menu illustrated in People who like Facebook then the social networking system may generate a new set of structured queries based on this selection as illustrated in where the new set of structured queries in the drop down menu of all reference the concept node for Facebook since that has now been locked to the previously ambiguous n gram facebook from the received text query. Although this disclosure describes generating particular structured queries in response to particular ambiguous text queries this disclosure contemplates generating any suitable structured queries in response to any suitable ambiguous text queries.

In particular embodiments a structured query may include a snippet of contextual information about one or more of the social graph elements referenced in the structured query. Where the structured query is generated in response to a text query containing an ambiguous n gram the snippet may provide contextual information about the identified node or identified edge corresponding to the ambiguous n gram that is referenced in a particular structured query. The snippet included with the structured query may be presented to the querying user e.g. inline with the structured query in drop down menu to help aid the user determine whether the referenced social graph element matches with the user s intent. In particular embodiments snippets may be included automatically with a structured query. When displaying a set of structured queries a snippet of contextual information may be automatically included with each structured query. In particular embodiments a snippet may be included with a structured query when the querying user interacts with the structured query. When the structured queries are initially presented to the querying user a snippet may not be necessarily included with each structured query. Instead the snippet for a particular structured query may be presented to the querying user after the user interacts with the structured query such as for example by mousing over focusing on or otherwise interacting with the structured query. As an example and not by way of limitation referencing in response to the text query people who like facebook in query field which contains the ambiguous term facebook the social networking system has generated structured queries referencing the concept nodes corresponding to the company Facebook the group Facebook Culinary Team among others which are presented to the user in drop down menu . In the example illustrated in the querying user has focused on the structured query People who like Facebook and in response a snippet reading Product Service 81 431 771 like this has been generated next to the structured query where this snippet provides contextual information about the referenced concept node for the company Facebook indicating that it corresponds to a Product Service . Furthermore this snippet provides contextual information about the referenced like type edge indicating that 81 431 771 like this i.e. that number of user nodes are connected to the concept node for Facebook by a like type edge . Similarly were the user to focus on other structured queries displayed in drop down menu of different snippets may be displayed for each of those structured queries based on the social graph elements referenced in the particular structured query. Although this disclosure illustrates and describes generating particular snippets for structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates generating any suitable snippets for structured queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may transmit one or more of the structured queries to the querying user. As an example and not by way of limitation after the structured queries are generated the social networking system may transmit one or more of the structured queries as a response which may utilize AJAX or other suitable techniques to the user s client system that may include for example the names name strings of the referenced social graph elements other query limitations e.g. Boolean operators etc. as well as potentially other metadata associated with the referenced social graph elements. The web browser on the querying user s client system may display the transmitted structured queries in a drop down menu as illustrated in . Where the structured queries are generated in response to receiving a text query with an ambiguous n gram then the transmitted structured queries may be selectable by the querying user to indicate that the identified node or identified edges reference in the structured query match an intent of the user for the ambiguous n gram. As an example and not by way of limitation referencing in response to the unstructured text query people who like facebook in query field the social networking system may generate the set of structured queries illustrated in drop down menu . These structured queries include references to the concept nodes corresponding to Facebook Facebook Culinary Team and Facebook Camera among others each of which may have been identified by the social networking system as possibly corresponding to the ambiguous n gram facebook from the received text query. The querying user may then select one of these structured queries to select the particular concept referenced in the structured query and thereby lock the ambiguous n gram facebook to the concept node corresponding to the selected structured query. In particular embodiments the transmitted queries may be presented to the querying user in a ranked order such as for example based on a rank previously determined as described above. Structured queries with better rankings may be presented in a more prominent position. Furthermore in particular embodiments only structured queries above a threshold rank may be transmitted or displayed to the querying user. As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in the structured queries may be presented to the querying user in a drop down menu where higher ranked structured queries may be presented at the top of the menu with lower ranked structured queries presented in descending order down the menu. In the examples illustrated in only the seven highest ranked queries are transmitted and displayed to the user. In particular embodiments one or more references in a structured query may be highlighted e.g. outlined underlined circled bolded italicized colored lighted offset in caps in order to indicate its correspondence to a particular social graph element. As an example and not by way of limitation as illustrated in the references to Stanford University and Stanford California are highlighted outlined in the structured queries to indicate that it corresponds to a particular concept node . Similarly the references to Friends like work at and go to in the structured queries presented in drop down menu could also be highlighted to indicate that they correspond to particular edges . Although this disclosure describes transmitting particular structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates transmitting any suitable structured queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments social networking system may receive from the querying user a selection of one of the structured queries. The nodes and edges referenced in the received structured query may be referred to as the selected nodes and selected edges respectively. By selecting one of the structured queries generated in response to a text query with an ambiguous n gram the querying user may be indicating that the node or edges referenced in the selected structured query match the intent of the user for the ambiguous n gram. As an example and not by way of limitation the web browser on the querying user s client system may display the transmitted structured queries in a drop down menu as illustrated in which the user may then click on or otherwise select e.g. by simply keying enter on his keyboard to indicate the particular structured query the user wants the social networking system to execute. By selecting one of the structured queries the querying user may thereby lock the ambiguous n gram to the social graph element corresponding to the selected structured query. As an example and not by way of limitation referencing the querying user may be inputted the unstructured text query friends who like facebook into query field where the term facebook in the text query has been identified as an ambiguous n gram. If the querying user selects the second suggested structured query from the drop down menu illustrated in People who like Facebook Culinary Team which corresponds to the concept node for the group Facebook Culinary Team then the social networking system may lock the ambiguous n gram facebook from the text query to the concept node for Facebook Culinary Team and generate a new set of structured queries based on this selection i.e. a new set of structured queries that reference the concept node for Facebook Culinary Team . Furthermore upon selecting the particular structured query the user s client system may call or otherwise instruct to the social networking system to execute the selected structured query. Although this disclosure describes receiving selections of particular structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates receiving selections of any suitable structured queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments in response to receiving a selection of a structured query from the querying user the social networking system may generate a new set of structured queries based on the selection. The selected structured query may comprise a reference to one of the identified nodes or identified edges corresponding to the ambiguous n gram. These identified nodes or identified edges may be referred to at the selected nodes or selected edges indicating that the particular social graph element referenced in the structured query selected by the querying user represents a social graph element that the querying user specifically intended to select. The structured queries of this new set may comprise reference to the selected node or selected edge and may further comprise reference to zero or more additional nodes and zero or more additional edges. In this way the suggested structured queries generated by the social networking system may expanded off of the user s selection where the querying user effectively selects the base of the query to use for generating more complex queries. As an example and not by way of limitation the drop down menu illustrated in shows a set of structured queries generated in response to the querying user s selection of the suggested structured query People who like Facebook from . The suggested structured query People who like Facebook corresponded to the concept node for the company Facebook which had been identified as a concept node that corresponded to the ambiguous n gram facebook from the unstructured text query in query field of . After selecting this structured query the ambiguous n gram facebook was locked to the concept node for the company Facebook and the social networking system then generated a new set of structured queries that referenced this concept node along with additional social graph elements. The selected structured query may also be used to replace the unstructured text query previously received in the query field . For example once the querying user selected the structured query People who like Facebook from the drop down menu in that selected structured query may replace the original text query and the social networking system may auto populate the query field with the selected structured query as illustrated in where the query field is now populated with the previously selected structured query. In particular embodiments the querying user may then continue to input text into query field to further modify the query for example by adding a text string before into or after the structured query that has been populated into the query field . In this way the structured query may be further refined by the querying user. Furthermore the processes described above may be repeated in response to the input of additional ambiguous n grams. Thus the social networking system may parse the unstructured text query portion of a query that has been inputted into query field . Although this disclosure describes generating structured queries in response to a user s selection in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates generating structured queries in response to a user s selection in any suitable manner.

More information on structured search queries may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 556 072 filed 23 Jul. 2012 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 674 695 filed 12 Nov. 2012 each of which is incorporated by reference.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may identify a node of the social graph corresponding to a page currently accessed by a user. A user may access any suitable page such as for example a user profile page a concept profile page a search results page a homepage a newsfeed page an email or messages page or another suitable page of the online social network. Particular pages of the online social network may correspond to particular social graph elements. In particular embodiments the user may currently be accessing a profile page of the online social network corresponding to a particular user node or concept node . Each user of the online social network may have a user profile page that corresponds to a user node of the user. As an example and not by way of limitation referencing which illustrate a user profile page for the user Mark this page may correspond to a user node of the user Mark . Similarly each concept represented in the online social network may have a concept profile page that corresponds to a concept node representing that concept. As an example and not by way of limitation referencing which illustrate a concept profile page for the politician Barack Obama this page may correspond to a concept node representing the politician Barack Obama note of course that Barack Obama may also have a personal user profile page . In particular embodiments the user may currently be accessing a search results page corresponding to a structured query. The structured query may comprise references to one or more nodes and one or more edges and the search results page may have been generated in response to this structured query. In this case one or more of the nodes referenced in the structured query may be identified by the social networking system as being the nodes corresponding to the page. As an example and not by way of limitation referencing which illustrate a search results page generated by the structured query Current Facebook employees which includes a reference to the concept node for the company Facebook the social networking system may identify the concept node corresponding to the company Facebook as being the node corresponding to this search results page. Although this disclosure describes identifying particular nodes corresponding to particular pages in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates identifying any suitable nodes corresponding to any suitable pages in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may generate one or more structured queries that each comprise a reference to the identified node s of the page currently accessed by a user. These generated structured queries may be considered the default structured queries for the page. Each of these structured queries may also comprise references to one or more edges that are connected to the identified node. These default structured queries are effectively based on and reference the page currently being accessed by the user. Where the title bar and the query field field are unified fields as described previously the social networking system may essentially use the title of the page which itself may be considered a reference to one or more social graph elements as a template query upon which query modifications are added to generate the default structured queries. As an example and not by way of limitation referencing the title of the page is Barack Obama where this title is unified with the query field such that a user may interact with the title to immediately bring up a drop down menu with a set of default queries for the page that reference the page the user is interacting with i.e. the suggested default queries contain references to the concept node associated with the concept Barack Obama . In particular embodiments if the user is accessing a search results page then the default structured queries generated by the social networking system may comprises references to the social graph elements referenced in the structured query used to generate that search results page. In other words if a structured query comprising references to one or more nodes and one or more edges is used to generate a particular search results page then the default structured queries generated for that page will also include at least references to the one or more nodes and one or more edges of the original structured query. Thus the structured query used to generate a particular search results page may be used as the base upon which expansions of that initial query may be suggested as default queries. As an example and not by way of limitation referencing the title of the page is Current Facebook employees where this title is also a structured query that was used to generate the search results page and has now been populated into query field . When the user interacts with the query field the social networking system may generate a set of default structured queries based on the original structure query where each of the default structured queries is effectively a modification of the original query Current Facebook employees . For example in the example illustrated in the social networking system has generated the suggested default structured queries Current Facebook employees who live in Austin Tex. which references the additional social graph elements of a live in type edge and a concept node for Austin Tex. and Current Facebook employees who like Old Pro which references the additional social graph elements of a like type edge and a concept node for Old Pro where each of these references the social graph elements from the original structured query as well as additional social graph elements that are modifications of the original query. Although this disclosure describes generating particular default structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates any suitable default structured queries in any suitable manner. Moreover although this disclosure describes generating default structured queries for particular types of pages this disclosure contemplates generating default structured queries for any suitable types of pages.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may transmit one or more of the default structured queries to the querying user for display on the page currently accessed by the user. These structured queries may be transmitted and displayed as previously described. As an example and not by way of limitation the web browser on the querying user s client system may display the transmitted structured queries in a drop down menu in association with a query field of a webpage as illustrated in . The default structured queries generated for a particular page may not be displayed until the user interacts with the query field such as for example by mousing over or clicking on the query field which may cause the structured queries to be transmitted and displayed in drop down menu . The structured queries displayed in drop down menu may enable the user accessing the page to selected one of the structured queries indicating that the selected structured query should be executed by the social networking system . Although this disclosure describes transmitting particular default structured queries in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates transmitting any suitable default structured queries in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments the social networking system may generate one or more default structured queries in response to a user accessing a page that does not correspond to a particular social graph element. A user may access a page of the online social network that does not necessarily correspond to any particular social graph element such as for example a newsfeed page which may not necessarily correspond to any particular nodes or edges of the social graph . In this case the page may be considered to be in a null state with respect to identifying social graph elements that correspond to the page. Similarly for a page that does correspond to one or more social graph elements the user accessing that page may place the query field of the page into a null state by for example clearing or deleting any title or query that that had previously occupied the field. For a null state page or a query field in a null state the social networking system may generate a set of default structured queries for the page based on a variety of factors such as for example the type of page the user is accessing the query history of the user the general or current popularity of particular queries the usefulness of particular queries other suitable factors or any combination thereof. These default structured queries may be pre generated and accessed from a cache or generated dynamically in response to input from the user. In particular embodiments when the user is accessing a page that does not correspond to a particular social graph element the social networking system may access a set of default structured queries corresponding to the page. Each of these default structured queries may comprise references to one or more edges or edge types or one or more nodes or node types . As an example and not by way of limitation illustrates a newsfeed page being accessed by a user of the online social network. Some of the default structured queries for this page may include Friends of . . . or People who like . . . as illustrated in drop down menu where these structured queries included references to friend type edges and like type edges respectively. In the example illustrated in the default structured queries contain ellipses to indicate that the user may input text into the query field to complete the query. As another example and not by way of limitation for the same newsfeed page illustrated in the social networking system may generate default structured queries that include My friends Photos of my friends Photos I like or Apps my friends use where these structured queries include reference to both edges and nodes e.g. for the structured query My friends the term My is a reference to the user node of the querying user and the term friends is a reference to friend type edges connected to that node . Although this disclosure describes generating default structured queries for a page that does not correspond to particular social graph elements in a particular manner this disclosure contemplates generating default structured queries for a page that does not correspond to particular social graph elements in any suitable manner.

In particular embodiments in response to a structured query received from a querying user the social networking system may generate one or more search results where each search result matches or substantially matches the terms of the structured query. The social networking system may receive a structured query from a querying user also referred to as the first user corresponding to a first user node . In response to the structured query the social networking system may generate one or more search results corresponding to the structured query. Each search result may include link to a profile page and a description or summary of the profile page or the node corresponding to that page . The search results may be presented and transmitted to the querying user as a search results page. illustrates an example search results page generated in response to a particular structured query. The structured query used to generate a particular search results page is shown in query field and the various search results generated in response to the structured query are illustrated in a field for presented search results. In particular embodiments the query field may also serve as the title bar for the page. In other words the title bar and query field may effectively be a unified field on the search results page. As an example illustrates a search results page with the structured query Current Facebook employees in query field . This structured query also effectively serves as the title for the generated page where the page shows a plurality search results of users of the online social network who are employees at the company Facebook . The search results page may also include a field for modifying search results and a field for providing suggested searches. When generating the search results the social networking system may generate one or more snippets for each search result where the snippets are contextual information about the target of the search result i.e. contextual information about the social graph entity profile page or other content corresponding to the particular search result . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular search results pages this disclosure contemplates any suitable search results pages.

More information on generating search results may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 731 939 filed 31 Dec. 2012 which is incorporated by reference.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

