---

title: Enhancing sensor data by coordinating and/or correlating data attributes
abstract: A method includes receiving first sensor data acquired by a first sensor in communication with a cloud computing system. The first sensor data has a first set of associated attributes including a time and a location at which the first sensor data was acquired. The method also includes receiving second sensor data acquired by a second sensor in communication with the cloud computing system. The second data has a second set of associated attributes including a time and a location at which the second sensor data was acquire. Further, the method includes generating a data processing result based at least in part on the first sensor data, the first set of associated attributes, the second sensor data, and the second set of associated attributes and instructing a robot in communication with the cloud computing system to perform a task based at least in part on the data processing result.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09399290&OS=09399290&RS=09399290
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09399290
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140923
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 564 313 filed on Aug. 1 2012 and entitled Enhancing Sensor Data by Coordinating and or Correlating Data Attributes which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 588 440 filed on Jan. 19 2012 both of which are herein incorporated by reference as if fully set forth in this description.

Cloud computing refers generally to the provision of computing resources via a computer network. Common shorthand used for a cloud computing service or an aggregation of existing cloud services is the cloud. In a traditional model of computing data and software are entirely contained in a user s device which may be a personal computer PC for example. In cloud computing however the user s device is configured to be coupled to computing resources via a computer network and consequently may contain relatively little hardware software or data. For example the user s device may include an operating system a network connection and a network interface application such as a web browser to provide access to the network of computing resources which may include for example servers processors hard drives memory applications etc. on the cloud. Thus the user s device may simply serve as an input device and or display terminal for processes occurring on the cloud.

Cloud computing may also free the user and the user s device from certain hardware and software installation and maintenance tasks due to applications being performed on computing resources coupled via a wired or wireless link to the cloud. Further devices coupled to the cloud may have access to the same pool of data and applications. This allows users to store and access personal files such as music pictures videos and bookmarks or play games or use productivity applications remotely rather than physically carrying around a storage medium such as a DVD or thumb drive to access such data and or applications.

In one example a user s device may by coupled to a host of web servers that run user interface software that collects and interprets commands from the user. In response to the commands the servers may manage some or all of the necessary computing and can store or retrieve information from database or file servers and cause the user s device to display relevant information. Through cloud computing data across multiple servers distributed throughout various locations can be used to facilitate collaborative work on a project or task from any number of user devices coupled to the cloud from any location.

In one example a method for processing data in a cloud computing system includes acquiring first sensor data having an associated first set of attributes and acquiring second sensor data having an associated second set of attributes. In some embodiments the first sensor data may be acquired at a first corresponding time and the second sensor data may be acquired at a second corresponding time. The first sensor data and the second sensor data may be acquired by the same sensor in some embodiments. But in other embodiments the first sensor data and the second sensor data may be acquired by two different sensors. In some embodiments where the first sensor data and second sensor data are acquired by two different sensors one of the two different sensors may be associated with a first robot and another of the two different sensors may be associated with a second robot. However in some embodiments the two different sensors may be associated with the same robot. Further one or more of the first sensor the second sensor the first robot and the second robot may be in communication with a cloud computing system.

The first set of attributes may include a time and a location at which the first sensor data was acquired and the second set of attributes may include a time and a location at which the second sensor data was acquired. The method may also include processing the first set of attributes and the second set of attributes to localize and synchronize the first sensor data and the second sensor data. The method may further include providing an instruction for a robot to perform a task based at least in part on localized and or synchronized sensor data.

In another example a computing device coupled to a cloud computing system may receive a command to execute a task. Generally the computing device can function as a server device and or a client device. In response the computing device may instruct a first client device such as a robot and or sensor coupled to the cloud computing system to collect first sensor data that is relevant to executing the task. In response to receiving the instructions from the computing device the first client device may i acquire the first sensor data ii record a first set of one or more attributes associated with the first sensor data and iii send the first sensor data and associated first set of one or more attributes to the computing device.

If the computing device determines that additional sensor data would be helpful to execute the task the computing device may instruct the first client device or alternatively one or more additional client devices to collect second sensor data. In response to receiving the instructions from the computing device the first client device or alternatively the one or more additional client devices may i acquire the second sensor data ii record a second set of one or more attributes associated with the second sensor data and iii send the second sensor data and associated second set of one more attributes to the computing device.

In some embodiments the computing device may be configured to correlate compare combine or otherwise process the first sensor data and the second sensor data based at least in part on the first set of one or more attributes and the second set of one or more attributes to generate a result. Then the computing device alone or in combination with one or more client devices may then execute the task based at least in part on the generated result.

In yet another example a cloud computing system includes a computing device configured to receive a request to perform a task. The computing device is configured to receive first sensor data associated with a first set of attributes and to receive second sensor data associated with a second set of attributes. The first sensor data and the second sensor data may be acquired by the same sensor in some embodiments. But in other embodiments the first sensor data and the second sensor data may be acquired by two different sensors. In some embodiments where the first sensor data and second sensor data are acquired by two different sensors one of the two different sensors may be associated with a first client device and another of the two different sensors may be associated with a second client device. However in some embodiments the two different sensors may be associated with the same client device.

The first set of attributes may include a corresponding time and location at which the first sensor data was acquired and the second set of attributes may include a corresponding time and location at which the second sensor data was acquired. The server device is also configured to process the first set of attributes and the second set of attributes to localize and synchronize the first sensor data and the second sensor data. The server device is also configured to instruct at least one client device to perform the task based at least in part on the localized and or synchronized sensor data.

In yet another example a non transitory computer readable medium has stored therein instructions executable by at least one processor to cause the at least one processor to perform functions. The functions include accessing first sensor data acquired by a first sensor that is in communication with a cloud computing system and accessing second sensor data acquired by a second sensor that is in communication with the cloud computing system. The first sensor data has a first set of associated attributes including a time and a location at which the first sensor data was acquired and the second data has a second set of associated attributes including a time and a location at which the second sensor data was acquired. Further the functions include generating a data processing result based at least in part on the first sensor data the first set of associated attributes the second sensor data and the second set of associated attributes and instructing a robot that is in communication with the cloud computing system to perform a task based at least in part on the data processing result.

Other instructions can also be stored on the computer readable medium and can be executable to perform other functions including for example processing the first set of attributes and the second set of attributes to localize and synchronize the first sensor data and the second sensor data and providing an instruction for a robot to perform a task based at least in part on localized and or synchronized sensor data.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting to the scope of the present disclosure. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments examples and features described above further aspects embodiments examples and features will become apparent by reference to the accompanying figures and the following detailed description.

One aspect of the present disclosure is related to collecting sensor data from multiple robots and or from one robot over a period of time. The sensor data can be collated and or synchronized utilizing cloud computing resources so that coordinated times places and objects corresponding to or otherwise associated with the sensor data can be identified together. Data samples with such commonly identified characteristics can be enhanced or otherwise improved. For example the data samples can be processed to remove noise stitch together a sequence of sounds create composite or panoramic views and or generate 3D stereoscopic views or 3D models etc. The enhanced sensor data can be stored for future reference and or used to initiate other functions such as for example to instruct one or more robots to perform a specific command and or to collect additional data.

More generally the present disclosure is related to processing data such as data from one or more sensors in the broad context of cloud computing over a computer network in which computing resources application execution data storage etc. may be divided to some extent between client and server devices. Generally a client device is a computing device that accesses a resource or service on the cloud and a server device is a computing device that is communicatively coupled to the cloud and provides resources or services to client devices. In some instances a computing device communicatively coupled to the cloud can function simultaneously and or intermittently as both a client device and a server device.

In one example the client device is configured as a robot that that can be utilized to perform a task. The robot may be configured to interact with its surrounding environment utilizing a mechanical electrical and or electromechanical actuation capability. In one example the actuation capability allows the robot to manipulate objects and or to be mobile or navigate within an environment. Alternatively or in conjunction the robot may include one or more sensors such as for example microphones still or video cameras ambient light sensors proximity and distance sensors global positioning system GPS sensors gyroscopes accelerometers biosensors wireless network transceivers etc. In one example sensors are configured as hardware and or software modules that can be made available to the robot as needed or desired. Such modules can be made available to the robot in a wired and or wireless manner. In some examples a robot is configured to be coupled via a wired or wireless link to a second device or module such as mobile phone or laptop. The second device or module may be configured to function as a controller of the robot and to provide additional sensor modules or other device modules.

In the present disclosure a plurality of client devices can communicate with local and or remote computing resources on the cloud to share data program instructions applications modules processing capabilities and the like. The computing resources accessible via the cloud can be shared between one or more client devices on a real time or near real time basis. Parts of the shared data and program instructions may be dynamically delivered as needed or otherwise to various client devices via the cloud. Some details of the cloud architecture may be transparent to users of client devices. Thus a user of a client device may not be aware that the client device is downloading application logic or instructions and data from the cloud or that the client device is offloading processing or storage functions to the cloud for example.

Utilizing shared computing resources at least in part a client device can be controlled to perform actions or commands such as to interact with an environment and to obtain or acquire sensor data relating to the environment. The acquired sensor data can be associated with various attributes relating to the acquisition thereof such as for example the times and or places that the sensor data was acquired. The sensor data can include different types of data such as acoustic signals image data temperature location and distance data etc. Further the acquired sensor data and its associated attributes can be shared through the cloud and enhanced to facilitate various functions such as for example object recognition object inventorying voice recognition command interpretation navigational functions etc.

In one example a client device such as a robot with an actuation capability receives a command to perform one or more processes to identify or recognize objects in an area and to inventory the objects in the area. Such processes may include controlling one or more sensors to obtain various types and amounts of sensor data relating to the area and the objects located therein. The one or more sensors can be physically or communicatively coupled to the client device or perhaps to one or more other client devices. Alternatively some of the one or more sensors can be distributed throughout the area in which the robot is operating. For example some of the one or more sensors could correspond to cameras or microphones integrated with other objects in the area e.g. a camera and or microphone integrated with a computer computer monitor mobile phone or security system for example.

Once the sensor data has been acquired the sensor data can then be shared with other devices e.g. server devices other client devices other robots etc. via the cloud and used to facilitate the processes of object recognition and inventorying. For example a server device can combine the shared data based on attributes thereof such as acquisition times and or locations to enhance the processes of object recognition and inventorying. Illustratively a number of client devices that are distributed at different locations throughout a room can capture images of objects in the room from different perspectives and or at different times. The server device can process analyze and or combine the images based on the location and time acquisition attributes to better enable an identification of the objects. Further the server device may perform additional processing on the data to enhance and remove noise from the data. Still further different types of data such as audio data temperature data and the like can be processed in accordance with the concepts disclosed herein.

Referring now to the figures illustrates a cloud based computing system according to one example of the present disclosure. In the system includes a cloud that represents a networked architecture of computing resources. Further the cloud in includes a cloud service a cloud platform a cloud infrastructure and a database . In other examples the cloud may include additional of fewer functional and or physical components. In addition the cloud service the cloud platform the cloud infrastructure and the database of may include other elements or components that are not specifically illustrated in . Generally one or more functional or physical components of the system may be divided into additional functional or physical components or combined into fewer functional or physical components. Delivery of cloud computing resources may involve multiple clouds or cloud components that communicate with each other over application programming interfaces such as web services or multi tier architectures for example.

Generally the cloud represents a networked architecture of computing resources and in one example the cloud service represents a queue for handling requests from client devices coupled to the cloud. The cloud platform may include a frontend of the cloud and may be coupled to the cloud service to perform functions to interact with client devices. The cloud platform may provide applications used to access the cloud via a user interface such as a web browser. The cloud infrastructure may include service applications for billing components of the cloud and thus may interact with the cloud service . The database may represent storage capabilities of the cloud and may be accessed by any of the cloud service the cloud platform the infrastructure and client devices.

The system of includes a number of client devices that can be configured to communicate with the cloud and to each other by wired and or wireless communication connections . In other examples additional or fewer client devices may communicate with the cloud . In some examples the devices are configured to collect and upload data to the cloud . The cloud may be configured to perform calculations or analysis on the data and return processed data to the device . In another example the collected data can be uploaded to another local or remote device coupled to the cloud for processing and analysis.

By way of non limiting examples the devices may include any type of device with computing capabilities such as a PC laptop computer tablet computer smart appliance electronic home security systems etc. and or any type of general mobile computing device such as a personal digital assistant GPS device cellular telephone smart phone portable gaming device etc. In addition the devices may include robot devices that generally may comprise a computing device that has connection capabilities to the cloud and that has an actuation capability such as mechanical electrical and or electromechanical capabilities. Generally the devices may include one or more of a display system memory input output components a network connection and a processor.

Further any of the client devices may include one or more sensors such as a gyroscope or an accelerometer GPS sensors optical sensors infrared sensors sonar biosensors radio frequency identification systems near field communication chips wireless network transceivers compasses among others.

In addition any of the client devices may include an integrated user interface that allows a user to interact with the device. For example the devices may include various buttons and or a touchscreen interface that allow a user to provide input to the device. In another example the client device may include a microphone configured to receive voice commands from a user. Furthermore the devices may include one or more interfaces that allow various types of secondary devices or modules to be connected thereto as will be described in more detail hereinafter.

In the communication connections between client devices and the cloud may include wired connections such as a serial or parallel bus. The communication connections may also be wireless links that utilize for example Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 which may refer to IEEE 802.11 2007 IEEE 802.11n 2009 or any other IEEE 802.11 revision and the like.

In other examples the system may include access points through which the client devices may communicate with the cloud . Access points may take various forms for example an access point may take the form of a wireless access point WAP or wireless router. As another example if a client device is coupled using a cellular air interface protocol such as a CDMA or GSM protocol an access point may be a base station in a cellular network that provides Internet connectivity via the cellular network.

As such the client devices may include wired or wireless network interfaces through which the client devices can by coupled to the cloud or access points . As an example the client devices may be configured to use one or more protocols such as 802.11 802.16 WiMAX LTE GPRS CDMA EV DO and or HSPDA among others. Furthermore the client devices may be configured use multiple wired and or wireless protocols such as 3G or 4G data connectivity using a cellular communication protocol for example CDMA GSM or WiMAX as well as for WiFi connectivity using 802.11. Other examples are also possible.

Generally the processor may be configured to operate the device in accordance with an operating system program instructions and other data stored in the storage . In one example one or more of the operating system program instructions and other data or portions thereof can be stored on or otherwise accessible via the communication interface from the cloud . The communication interface can be a wired and or wireless communication interface to access the cloud . A wired interface may include for example a parallel bus or a serial bus such as a Universal Serial Bus USB . A wireless interface may utilize for example Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 cellular such as GSM CDMA UMTS EV DO WiMAX or LTE or Zigbee among other possibilities.

The storage may also be configured to store data from the one or more sensors of the device and the processor may be configured to interpret the data from the sensors. Data from the sensors can also be made accessible through the cloud for processing by computing resources coupled thereto. Further the sensors can be coupled to the client device locally or remotely via the wired or wireless connection . Non limiting example sensors may include smoke sensors light sensors proximity sensors distance sensors radio sensors infrared sensors microphones gyroscopes accelerometers cameras radar capacitive sensors touch sensors compasses GPS sensors temperature sensors etc.

Further the processor may be configured to processes inputs from the I O device s and to control outputs to the I O devices. The I O devices may include for example a touch panel keypad mouse microphone speaker display panel and the like.

The client device may also include components or devices that allow the client device to interact with its environment. For example the client device may include one or more actuators such as motors wheels articulating grippers movable arms legs head etc. that enable the device to physically move or interact with objects in its environment.

In one example the client device is a robot that is controlled according to an operating system designed for specific functions of the robot. The robot operating system may provide libraries and tools such as hardware abstraction device drivers visualizers message passing package management program instructions etc. to enable robot executable applications. Examples of robot operating systems include open source or proprietary software such as ROS robot operating system DROS Dave s ROS ARCOS advanced robotics control operating system ROSJAVA and the like. A robot operating system may include publish and subscribe functionality and may also include functionality to control components of the robot such as head tracking base movement actuation of articulating arms legs grippers etc.

In some examples various sensors and devices on the client device are configured as modules. Such modules may be physical components coupled to the client device and or software or other programming instruction modules that are executed locally or remotely for the client device. Different modules may be added or removed from the client device depending on requirements of the client device. For example in a low power situation the device may utilize fewer modules to reduce power consumption. In another example additional physical sensor or software modules can be added to increase an amount of data the device is able to collect.

In some examples the client device may be configured to communicate via a wired and or wireless connection to a computing device such as a device . The device can be considered a module and may include one or more of the processor the storage the sensors the communication interface and I O components . For example the client device can be a robot that has a number of actuators for example a movable base and articulating arms and grippers and the client device may be configured to receive the device for example a smartphone or laptop that is configured to control one or more components of the robot.

In one example the client device may be a relatively basic device without one or more of the sensors communication interface or I O components . In the present example the client device can be operatively coupled to the device which can provide one or more of the sensors communication interface I O components and other components to the client device.

The device can be a smartphone or other mobile device that provides an interactive display to control the client device . A smartphone can also provide additional peripheral components and sensing capabilities to the device such as a wired or wireless communication interface to the cloud processing capabilities communication capabilities of the phone an accelerometer gyroscope compass GPS camera a touch screen or other input device proximity sensor ambient light sensor etc. Thus the smartphone may enable the client device to communicate with the cloud and to download or otherwise access routines applications program instructions and other data from the cloud. For example a laundry folding routine may be stored on the cloud and a user may be able to select such routine using the device such as a smartphone to download the routine from the cloud onto the device. When the device is placed into or otherwise coupled to the client device the client device with suitable actuators and other components can be controlled to perform the downloaded routine.

As described above with respect to various client devices such as the client device may be in communication with the cloud and its network of computing resources. For example the client device may access data applications processing resources and the like from the cloud and other client devices in communication with the cloud . Further the cloud may access data applications processing resources and the like from client devices coupled to the cloud . The data from each client device in communication with the cloud can be compiled into a larger data set that can be accessed and shared by other devices in communication with the cloud . In this manner client devices such as robots can share experiences with other client devices to enable learned behaviors. Further the shared data can be processed to identify data samples with common characteristics and such data samples can be enhanced to facilitate the execution of various tasks or commands as described herein.

Illustratively the client device can be communicatively coupled to the cloud and may include sensors to detect characteristics of a surrounding environment and actuators to provide motor control for the device. Output data from the sensors can include acoustic signals image data location data distance data etc. The sensor output data can be provided to the cloud which can process the data to enable the client device and other client devices to perform functions such as identifying and interacting with objects in the environment. In some embodiments the processing of the sensor data can be performed entirely by the cloud or can be divided between one or more client devices and the cloud.

In one example one or more sensors coupled to one or more client devices can be controlled to capture images of an object. An object recognition application available via the cloud may be configured to identify the object in the images. In another example additional images of the object can be captured from one or more sensors coupled to the same or different client devices. For example the additional images of the object may be captured from different perspectives and or captured at different times. The multiple captured images can then be utilized to improve or aid in the identification of the object. Generally the identity of the object can be used to determine or retrieve additional information relating to the object. Such additional information can be stored in the database and may include for example a location size weight color model number instructions for use etc. of the object.

In still another example a first client device may build a map of an area and a second client device can later download or otherwise access the map to obtain information regarding the area. Further the second client device can update the map created by the first client device with additional information that the second client device may have learned about the area. For example the second client device may include different types of sensors that the first client device did not have. For example the second client device may be equipped with or otherwise able to access or use a camera an RFID scanner a temperature sensor or other type of sensor that the first client device may not have been equipped with or otherwise had access to at the time that it built the map. In this example the second client device can utilize its sensors to acquire additional information regarding the area to update the map. For example the second client device might update the map with temperature information light intensity information and or the identity of other objects that may be located in the area. Thus in operation the first client device and the second client device are able to share data that each has collected. This sharing of data enables faster adaptation such that one device can build upon a learned experience or other information previously gathered by another device.

In the method illustrated in block includes receiving a command or request to perform a task and processing the command to interpret or define the command. The command may be received by a client device or may be received by a server device associated with the cloud . In various examples the command or request can be an audible command spoken by a user a manually initiated command entered by a user on an input device and or a command that is generated based on a schedule or other triggering event. In some embodiments a client device that receives a command from a user may in turn relay the command to a server device associated with the cloud.

Once a command has been received and interpreted the command can then be assigned to one or more client devices for execution. For example block includes identifying one or more relevant client devices and relevant data that can be utilized to execute the task. The block can also include identifying various characteristics of the relevant client devices such as for example locations sensor capabilities and actuation capabilities of the relevant client devices. In one example the block may include utilizing the identification of the relevant client devices and characteristics thereof and the relevant data to plan the execution of the task.

Block includes acquiring relevant data for executing the task. For example the block can include controlling one or more sensors to acquire sensor data. The sensors may be physically or wirelessly coupled to a client device and the sensors may be controlled to acquire images of various objects in a room along with other data regarding the objects and or the room. In one example block also includes identifying various attributes relating to the acquired sensor data such as times and or locations that the sensor data was acquired. The attributes of the acquired sensor data can also include parameters or other details related to the one or more sensors that were controlled to acquire the sensor data. Such parameters may include by way of non limiting example an orientation resolution and magnification of a camera or other image sensor that was used to acquire or capture the images.

Block includes processing the acquired sensor data the attributes associated with the acquired sensor data and perhaps other data and attributes accessible via the cloud for example. Next decision block includes determining whether additional data is needed or would be helpful for executing the task. For example the decision block may include determining whether the acquired sensor data is sufficient to reliably identify a particular object. If the acquired sensor data is sufficient to reliably identify the particular object then control passes to block which includes performing one or more tasks associated with executing the command. For example the one or more tasks may include identifying the object providing instructions for using the object and then using e.g. moving retrieving etc. the identified object according to the provided instructions.

However if a determination is made at decision block that additional data is necessary or would be helpful then control passes back to the block . Additional data may be necessary or helpful in situations when a particular object cannot be identified or at least not identified to within a desired threshold of certainty. After control passes back to block the same client device or a different client device can be instructed to acquire additional sensor data regarding the particular object. For example at block another client device can be selected to acquire images of the object from different perspectives. Alternatively or in conjunction a client device can be controlled or instructed to acquire or access other local or remote sensor modules to acquire additional sensor data. For example a client device can be controlled or instructed to access a distance sensor to determine a distance of the object from the sensor and the client device. Thereafter control passes to the blocks as described above.

The method also includes block that includes receiving second sensor data. Similarly the second sensor data is generally relevant data that can be utilized to execute a task and such data can include the data obtained during the execution of block of for example. Illustratively the second sensor data can include a second image of a second perspective of the object to be identified. Likewise the block may also include acquiring a second set of attributes relating to the second sensor data such as for example a location from which the second image was acquired a time at which the second image was acquired and a distance between the object in the first image and the sensor that acquired the second image.

The method also includes block that includes enhancing or otherwise modifying the first sensor data and the second sensor data to obtain a data processing result. Enhancing and or modifying the first and second sensor data may include removing noise from the data or interpolating the data to construct additional data points. The first sensor data and the second sensor data can be enhanced independently or can be enhanced collectively using the first sensor data to enhance the second sensor data and vice versa for example.

Additionally block may also include utilizing the first set of attributes and or the second set of attributes to enhance the first sensor data and the second sensor data. In one example the first sensor data and the second sensor data may also include audio data and block may further include utilizing the first and second sets of attributes including for example locations where the audio data was acquired and times when the audio data was acquired to remove background sounds and or other noise.

In another example the first sensor data and second sensor data may also include images of an object from different perspectives. In this example block includes utilizing the first and or second sets of attributes including for example locations where the images were acquired and times when the images were acquired to improve image processing by isolating the image from a background and or foreground for example. In yet a further example the steps and or functions of block can be omitted or combined with other steps and or functions of other blocks of the methods . For example the steps and or functions of block can be combined with block of .

More particularly block includes combining or correlating the first sensor data and second sensor data. In one example block may include combining or correlating the first sensor data and second sensor data by utilizing the first set of attributes and or second set of attributes to localize and or synchronize the first sensor and second sensor data. Generally localizing the first and second sensor data may include identifying relative locations of sensors that acquired the first and second sensor data and or identifying relative locations of an object or signal source with respect to the sensor locations. Further synchronizing the first and second sensor data may generally include identifying times when the first and second sensor data were acquired and extrapolating the first and second sensor data to a common time or period. For example extrapolating the first and second sensor data to a common time or period may be helpful to combine common characteristics of the sensor data such as audio and images.

In one example the first and second sensor data includes images of an object from different perspectives. At block the first and second sets of attributes including for example locations where the images were acquired and times when the images were acquired can be utilized to identify the same object in each image and or to combine the first and second sensor data to obtain a more detailed representation of the object in the images. Such combined sensor data can then be used to identify the object in accordance with a command to inventory a room for example.

In another example the first sensor data and second sensor data may include audio data such as an audible command spoken by an individual. In the present example the first sensor data may include audio data of a first portion of the audible command and the second sensor data may include audio data of a second portion of the audible command. At block the first and second sets of attributes including for example locations where the first and second sensor data were acquired and times when the first and second sensor data were acquired can be used to combine the first and second sensor data and construct the audible command spoken by the individual. The audible command can be then be executed by one or more client devices alone or in combination with one or more server devices all of which may be in communication with one another via the cloud.

In yet another example the first sensor data may include audio data and the second sensor data may include an image of an object. At block the first and second sets of attributes including for example locations where the audio data and image were acquired and times when the audio data and the image were acquired can be used to combine the first sensor data i.e. the audio data and second sensor data i.e. the image to determine that the particular object shown in the image made a particular sound at a particular time. In yet a further example the first and second sensor data may also include temperature data at particular times and locations. In this further example block may include combining the first and second sensor data to obtain temperature data for other times and locations by interpolation or other techniques.

The methods of respectively can be used with a cloud computing system such as the system of and any of the client devices of . The methods may include one or more operations functions or actions as illustrated by any one or more of blocks . Although the blocks are generally illustrated in a sequential order the blocks may also be performed in parallel and or in a different order than described herein. Also methods may include additional or fewer blocks as needed or desired. For example the various blocks may be combined into fewer blocks divided into additional blocks and or removed based upon a desired implementation.

In addition each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium or storage device including a disk or hard drive for example. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device. In addition one or more of the blocks may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions of the method .

Referring now to an environment is illustrated where one or more client devices can be controlled to collect sensor data and perform tasks. More particularly illustrates a room with various objects disposed therein client devices located inside the room and a client device located outside the room. In the example of the objects include a table a book a pet a television a guitar a first couch and a second couch . Further in the client devices are configured as robots with sensors and actuation capabilities and the client device is a security system with various sensors.

With further reference to the methods of in one example block includes receiving and processing a command to inventory the objects in the room . Block includes identifying relevant client devices and relevant data needed to execute the task. In the present example client devices are identified as being in the vicinity of the room and as having access to suitable sensors such as for example cameras distance sensors bar code scanners RFID transceivers etc. for collecting the relevant data. After identifying the client device as being in the room the client device can be instructed to begin collecting data for use in inventorying the objects . However in other examples the client device and or the client device can be selected in addition to or instead of the client device to inventory the objects .

In the present example client device can be controlled to acquire images and other data e.g. attributes associated with the images relating to the various objects in the room . The acquired images and other data can then be processed according to the method . If additional data is needed then any of the client devices can be instructed to acquire additional sensor data. For example the image data acquired by the client device may be sufficient to generally identify the table the book the pet the television an obstructed view of the object the first couch and the second couch .

However in the present example additional data may be required to identify more particularly a model of the television the identity of the object and a title of the book . Consequently t another client device such as the client device and or the client device can be instructed to identify and or acquire additional relevant data such as a model number of the television an ISBN of the book and an unobstructed image of the object . Thus the client device for example can be instructed to move closer to the book and scan a barcode of the book to move closer to the television to acquire images of sides of the television where the model number may be located and to move closer to the object to obtain an image of the object from a different perspective. Such additional data can then be processed according to the method . For example the additional data can be combined and or correlated with the earlier obtained data to identify the objects in the room. If still additional data is needed to identify one or more of the objects in the room then one or more of the client devices can be instructed to acquire additional data.

The above detailed description describes various features and functions of the disclosed systems devices and methods with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description figures and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments can be utilized and other changes can be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

