---

title: Method and apparatus for providing enhanced interference management at restricted access points
abstract: Methods and apparatuses are provided that facilitate providing access point measurements to restricted access points. Restricted access points can lessen restrictions to allow devices to register with the restricted access point for providing measurements thereto. Additionally or alternatively, access point measurements can be provided to a minimization of drive tests (MDT) server for providing to the restricted access points. Thus, restricted access points can obtain the access point measurements for performing enhanced interference management or other functionality based at least in part on the measurements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09648509&OS=09648509&RS=09648509
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09648509
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140519
---
The present Application for Patent is a Divisional of patent application Ser. No. 13 084 125 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING ENHANCED INTERFERENCE MANAGEMENT AT RESTRICTED ACCESS POINTS filed Apr. 11 2011 which claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 323 263 entitled ENHANCED INTERFERENCE MANAGEMENT FOR HOME NODE Bs filed Apr. 12 2010 and to Provisional Application No. 61 332 553 entitled AUTONOMOUS FEMTO ENHANCED INTERFERENCE MANAGEMENT filed May 7 2010 all of which are assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The following description relates generally to wireless network communications and more particularly to controlling interference between restricted access points.

Wireless communication systems are widely deployed to provide various types of communication content such as for example voice data and so on. Typical wireless communication systems may be multiple access systems capable of supporting communication with multiple users by sharing available system resources e.g. bandwidth transmit power . . . . Examples of such multiple access systems may include code division multiple access CDMA systems time division multiple access TDMA systems frequency division multiple access FDMA systems orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA systems and the like. Additionally the systems can conform to specifications such as third generation partnership project 3GPP 3GPP long term evolution LTE ultra mobile broadband UMB evolution data optimized EV DO etc.

Generally wireless multiple access communication systems may simultaneously support communication for multiple mobile devices. Each mobile device may communicate with one or more base stations via transmissions on forward and reverse links. The forward link or downlink refers to the communication link from base stations to mobile devices and the reverse link or uplink refers to the communication link from mobile devices to base stations. Further communications between mobile devices and base stations may be established via single input single output SISO systems multiple input single output MISO systems multiple input multiple output MIMO systems and so forth. In addition mobile devices can communicate with other mobile devices and or base stations with other base stations in peer to peer wireless network configurations.

To supplement conventional base stations additional restricted access points can be deployed to provide more robust wireless coverage to mobile devices. For example wireless relay stations and low power base stations e.g. which can be commonly referred to as Home NodeBs or Home eNBs collectively referred to as H e NBs femto access points femtocells picocells microcells etc. can be deployed for incremental capacity growth richer user experience in building or other specific geographic coverage and or the like. In some configurations such low power base stations are connected to the Internet and the mobile operator s network via broadband connection e.g. digital subscriber line DSL router cable or other modem etc. . Some H e NBs provide closed subscriber group CSG access that restricts access to certain devices or related users that are members of the CSG. This can impede enhanced interference management or other processes that benefit from device reporting at the H e NBs.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In accordance with one or more embodiments and corresponding disclosure thereof various aspects are described in connection with allowing reporting of device measurement information at restricted access points. For example the measurement information can be made available to the restricted access points to facilitate enhanced interference management EIM . In one example minimization of drive tests MDT functionality can be utilized to allow devices to perform measurements related to restricted access points and report measurement information to an MDT server service. The MDT server service can then make the measurement information available to one or more restricted access points e.g. and or a management server for the access points for performing EIM based on the measurement information. In another example the restricted access points can initialize training periods during which the restricted access points can at least temporarily allow some level of access to devices that are not typically authorized to communicate with the restricted access points. Thus the devices can register with the restricted access points during the training periods to report measurement information relating to the restricted access points.

According to an example a method for providing closed subscriber group CSG access is provided including providing wireless network access to one or more devices where the one or more devices are members of a CSG and determining a period of time during which to allow registration from one or more other devices that are not members of the CSG. The method further includes receiving access point measurement information from the one or more other devices during the period of time.

In another aspect an apparatus for providing CSG access is provided. The apparatus includes at least one processor configured to provide wireless network access to one or more devices where the one or more devices are members of a CSG and determine a period of time during which to allow registration from one or more other devices that are not members of the CSG. The at least one processor is further configured to receive access point measurement information from the one or more other devices during the period of time. The apparatus also includes a memory coupled to the at least one processor.

In yet another aspect an apparatus for providing CSG access is provided that includes means for providing wireless network access to one or more devices where the one or more devices are members of a CSG and means for determining a period of time during which to allow registration from one or more other devices that are not members of the CSG. The apparatus further includes means for receiving access point measurement information from the one or more other devices during the period of time.

Still in another aspect a computer program product for providing CSG access is provided including a computer readable medium having code for causing at least one computer to provide wireless network access to one or more devices where the one or more devices are members of a CSG and code for causing the at least one computer to determine a period of time during which to allow registration from one or more other devices that are not members of the CSG. The computer readable medium further includes code for causing the at least one computer to receive access point measurement information from the one or more other devices during the period of time.

Moreover in an aspect an apparatus for providing CSG access is provided that includes an access mode component for providing wireless network access to one or more devices where the one or more devices are members of a CSG and a training period determining component for determining a period of time during which to allow registration from one or more other devices that are not members of the CSG. The apparatus further includes a measurement receiving component for receiving access point measurement information from the one or more other devices during the period of time.

According to another example a method for reporting access point measurements to restricted access points is provided. The method includes performing one or more measurements of a signal from a restricted access point. The method further includes generating a MDT log comprising the one or more measurements along with a related cell identifier and reporting the MDT log to an MDT service.

In another aspect an apparatus for reporting access point measurements to restricted access points is provided. The apparatus includes at least one processor configured to perform one or more measurements of a signal from a restricted access point. The at least one processor is further configured to generate a MDT log comprising the one or more measurements along with a related cell identifier and report the MDT log to an MDT service. The apparatus also includes a memory coupled to the at least one processor.

In yet another aspect an apparatus for reporting access point measurements to restricted access points is provided that includes means for performing one or more measurements of a signal from a restricted access point. The apparatus further includes means for generating a MDT log comprising the one or more measurements along with a related cell identifier and means for reporting the MDT log to an MDT service.

Still in another aspect a computer program product for reporting access point measurements to restricted access points is provided including a computer readable medium having code for causing at least one computer to perform one or more measurements of a signal from a restricted access point. The computer readable medium further includes code for causing the at least one computer to generate a MDT log comprising the one or more measurements along with a related cell identifier and code for causing the at least one computer to report the MDT log to an MDT service.

Moreover in an aspect an apparatus for reporting access point measurements to restricted access points is provided that includes an access point measuring component for performing one or more measurements of a signal from a restricted access point. The apparatus further includes a MDT logging component for generating a MDT log comprising the one or more measurements along with a related cell identifier and a MDT reporting component for communicating the MDT log to an MDT service.

According to yet another example a method for performing EIM is provided that includes receiving one or more access point measurements from a MDT service and utilizing the one or more access point measurements in performing an EIM.

In another aspect an apparatus for performing EIM is provided. The apparatus includes at least one processor configured to receive one or more access point measurements from a MDT service. The at least one processor is further configured to utilize the one or more access point measurements in performing an EIM. The apparatus also includes a memory coupled to the at least one processor.

In yet another aspect an apparatus for performing EIM is provided that includes means for receiving one or more access point measurements from a MDT service. The apparatus further includes means for utilizing the one or more access point measurements in performing an EIM.

Still in another aspect a computer program product for performing EIM is provided including a computer readable medium having code for causing at least one computer to receive one or more access point measurements from a MDT service. The computer readable medium further includes code for causing the at least one computer to utilize the one or more access point measurements in performing an EIM.

Moreover in an aspect an apparatus for performing EIM is provided that includes a measurement receiving component for receiving one or more access point measurements from a MDT service. The apparatus further includes an EIM component for utilizing the one or more access point measurements in performing an EIM.

In yet another example a method for providing measurements to restricted access points is provided. The method includes receiving a MDT log comprising one or more access point measurements from a device and providing at least one of the one or more access point measurements from the MDT log to a restricted access point based at least in part on determining a cell identifier in the at least one of the one or more access point measurements.

In another aspect an apparatus for providing measurements to restricted access points is provided. The apparatus includes at least one processor configured to receive a MDT log comprising one or more access point measurements from a device. The at least one processor is further configured to provide at least one of the one or more access point measurements from the MDT log to a restricted access point based at least in part on determining a cell identifier in the at least one of the one or more access point measurements. The apparatus also includes a memory coupled to the at least one processor.

In yet another aspect an apparatus for providing measurements to restricted access points is provided that includes means for receiving a MDT log comprising one or more access point measurements from a device. The apparatus further includes means for providing at least one of the one or more access point measurements from the MDT log to a restricted access point based at least in part on determining a cell identifier in the at least one of the one or more access point measurements.

Still in another aspect a computer program product for providing measurements to restricted access points is provided including a computer readable medium having code for causing at least one computer to receive a MDT log comprising one or more access point measurements from a device. The computer readable medium further includes code for causing the at least one computer to provide at least one of the one or more access point measurements from the MDT log to a restricted access point based at least in part on determining a cell identifier in the at least one of the one or more access point measurements.

Moreover in an aspect an apparatus for providing measurements to restricted access points is provided that includes a MDT receiving component for receiving a MDT log comprising one or more access point measurements from a device. The apparatus further includes a measurement providing component for providing at least one of the one or more access point measurements from the MDT log to a restricted access point based at least in part on determining a cell identifier in the at least one of the one or more access point measurements.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details.

As described further herein device measurements of parameters related to a restricted access point can be reported to the restricted access point e.g. or one or more other access points . For example this can be for the purpose of determining restricted access point transmission power and or reducing interference e.g. performing enhanced interference management EIM etc. or other processes that utilize such measurements. For example devices can perform measurements related to the restricted access points e.g. measurements of radio conditions at or near the restricted access points signal strength or interference level of the restricted access points etc. . In one example the devices can report the measurements to a minimization of drive tests MDT server service. The MDT server service can make the measurements available to the restricted access points. In another example the restricted access points can lessen or remove access restrictions for a period of time. In this regard devices that would otherwise be restricted from connecting to the restricted access point can connect to the restricted access points to provide the measurements during the period of time. In either case the access points can use the measurements for performing EIM or other procedures based at least in part on the measurements.

As used in this application the terms component module system and the like are intended to include a computer related entity such as but not limited to hardware firmware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets such as data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal.

Furthermore various aspects are described herein in connection with a terminal which can be a wired terminal or a wireless terminal A terminal can also be called a system device subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile mobile device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal communication device user agent user device or user equipment UE . A wireless terminal may be a cellular telephone a satellite phone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a handheld device having wireless connection capability a computing device or other processing devices connected to a wireless modem. Moreover various aspects are described herein in connection with a base station. A base station may be utilized for communicating with wireless terminal s and may also be referred to as an access point a Node B evolved Node B eNB H e NB or some other terminology.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

The techniques described herein may be used for various wireless communication systems such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and other systems. The terms system and network are often used interchangeably. A CDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA W CDMA and other variants of CDMA. Further cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . An OFDMA system may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE is a release of UMTS that uses E UTRA which employs OFDMA on the downlink and SC FDMA on the uplink. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Additionally cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . Further such wireless communication systems may additionally include peer to peer e.g. mobile to mobile ad hoc network systems often using unpaired unlicensed spectrums 802.xx wireless LAN BLUETOOTH and any other short or long range wireless communication techniques.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches may also be used.

Referring to an example wireless communication system is illustrated that facilitates reporting device measurements related to restricted access points. System comprises a device that can receive signals from a restricted access point . System can optionally comprise a MDT service for receiving measurement information from device regarding signals associated with the restricted access point . In addition an access point can optionally be present in system for which device can measure one or more broadcast signals. For example device can be a UE modem or other tethered device a portion thereof and or the like. Restricted access point can be a femtocell such as a Home Node B or Home evolved Node B collectively referred to herein as H e NB picocell macrocell or similar base station a mobile base station a relay node a device e.g. communicating in peer to peer or ad hoc mode a portion thereof and or the like that restricts access to a subset of devices. MDT service can be substantially any database server or other component or collection of components that can store measurement information reported by one or more devices. In an example MDT service can comprise multiple inter connected components e.g. a log collection entity communicating with a log management entity etc. which are not shown for ease of explanation .

According to an example restricted access point can be associated with a wireless cell set. In general a wireless cell set comprises a set of one or more cells e.g. provided by at least one access point such as restricted access point having a defined relationship. An example of a wireless cell set is a closed subscriber group CSG . The descriptions below may simply refer to the term CSG rather than the more general term wireless cell set. It should be appreciated however that the described concepts may be applicable to other types of defined sets or groups e.g. restricted groups of wireless cells or other similar entities. In this regard restricted access point can operate according to an access mode to provide CSG access to not provide such access. For example restricted access point can set an access mode to an open access mode to provide access to substantially any device able to communicate with restricted access point a closed access mode to allow access to devices that are members of the CSG. Also restricted groups can provide a diminished level access mode to non members which can be referred to herein as a hybrid access mode or the cells within the group as hybrid cells . In addition it is to be appreciated that an access point such as restricted access point can provide one or more cells within which devices can communicate with the access point.

Device can receive signals broadcasted from restricted access point such as broadcast signal for example but may not be able to access restricted access point e.g. due to not being a member of a CSG or other restricted group of restricted access point . Restricted access point however may be performing EIM or other processes that utilize information from surrounding devices. For example EIM can relate to reducing of otherwise determining a level of interference of a network node caused to one or more other network nodes based at least in part on measurements of signals received from the network node at various devices. For example the signal measurements can relate to received signal power at the devices strength of a signal from the network node interference level of signals received from the network node a location of the devices identifiers of the network node or devices etc. Thus for example restricted access point can receive such measurements of signals transmitted by restricted access point from device . Based at least in part on this information using EIM restricted access point can set a transmission power to optimize a level of interference and a corresponding signal quality of a restricted access point transmission within a cell provided by restricted access point .

In any case device can measure signals such as broadcast signal from restricted access point and can generate measurement information which as described can include a received signal power strength of a signal from restricted access point interference level of signals received from restricted access point a location of device an identifier of device etc. In addition in one example device can measure other signals from other access points such as broadcast signal from access point . In one example restricted access point can initialize one or more training periods during which restricted access point can enforce a less restrictive access mode to allow device to communicate therewith for reporting measurement information related to broadcast signal and or .

For example as described further herein restricted access point can operate in an open or hybrid access mode during the training period. In this regard device can connect to restricted access point at least to provide the measurement information during the training period. In another example device can provide the measurement information to MDT service according to a MDT specification possibly at a later time than measurement time. As described further herein device can utilize an interface to MDT service e.g. through one or more access points and or other network nodes to report the measurement information and can include a cell identifier in the measurement information to facilitate differentiating measurement information of multiple access points or related cells. MDT service can then provide access to the measurement information or at least a representation thereof so restricted access point can perform EIM etc. using the measurement information or the representation. For example such a representation can include not only individual measurement s but also a significant statistic or action representative of the measurement s such as an average statistical regression etc.

Turning to an example wireless communication system is illustrated that facilitates reporting restricted access point measurement information. System comprises a device operable to receive signals broadcasted from a restricted access point . As described for example restricted access point can provide CSG functionality such to restrict access of devices that are not members of the CSG. Moreover system can optionally include an access point gateway that can communicate with one or more restricted access points such as restricted access point for providing access to one or more components of a core network not shown . In this regard for example restricted access point can be a H e NB femtocell picocell macrocell or similar base station mobile base station relay node etc. access point gateway can be an H e NB gateway and or device can be a UE modem or other tethered device etc. as described.

Device can comprise an access point measuring component for measuring signals received from one or more access points and a registering component for performing registration with one or more access points. Restricted access point can comprise an access mode component for operating according to one or more access modes to restrict access to the restricted access point e.g. open closed hybrid etc. access modes and a training period determining component for determining a time for opening access to restricted access point to receive measurement information from one or more devices. Restricted access point also comprises a measurement receiving component for obtaining signal measurement information from one or more devices an optional access control component for restricting device access to a core network and an optional EIM component for performing EIM based at least in part on received signal measurement information. In addition access mode component can optionally comprise a CSG parameter component for determining whether to broadcast one or more parameters related to a CSG and or a primary synchronization code PSC selecting component for determining a PSC to utilize for scrambling one or more broadcast signals e.g. where different PSCs are used outside and during the time determined by training period determining component . Optional access point gateway can comprise an access control component for restricting device access to the core network in additional or alternatively to access control component .

According to an example as described access point measuring component can receive signals from restricted access point and or other access points and can perform measurements related to a strength of the signals a strength of the signal from restricted access point interference of the signal from restricted access point and or the like. In a specific example access point measuring component can measure a common pilot indicator channel CPICH Ec lo CPICH received signal code power RSCP cell identity and or the like. Access point measuring component can additionally generate measurement information from the measurements which can include the measurements one or more identifiers and or the like. While access point measuring component can typically report such measurement information to one or more access points device can be excluded from a CSG of restricted access point for example preventing access point measuring component from reporting the measurement information. To facilitate receiving the measurement information however restricted access point can provide access to device for at least a period of time during which access point measuring component can communicate the measurement information to restricted access point .

Thus for example access mode component can cause restricted access point to operate in a closed access mode such that devices that are not members of the CSG cannot access restricted access point . In this example access mode component can provide wireless network access to devices that are members of the CSG while denying requests from non member devices to communicate with restricted access point . In addition CSG parameter component can advertise a CSG identifier of the CSG related to restricted access point along with a CSG indicator that specifies to device the operating mode as closed access. For example a combination of CSG identifier and CSG indicator can be used to specify the operating mode. In one example CSG parameter component can broadcast a CSG identifier and a CSG indicator to specify to device a closed access mode e.g. access to only members of a CSG a CSG identifier with no CSG indicator to specify a hybrid access mode e.g. restricted access to non members and neither a CSG identifier nor a CSG indicator to specify an open access mode e.g. access to substantially all devices .

To facilitate receiving measurement information from device however training period determining component can determine a period of time during which to switch to a hybrid or open access mode for example. Training period determining component can determine the period of time based at least in part on detecting a threshold change in radio conditions such as at least one of a RSSI received signal strength indication which can be determined based on measuring signals from neighboring access points for example receiving measurement reports from member devices and or the like one or more traffic conditions e.g. detecting a decrease in a number of devices connected to restricted access point such that opening access may have a smaller effect on the connected devices etc.

In another example training period determining component can determine the period of time based at least in part on receiving one or more configured values e.g. from a hardcoding configuration network specification etc. such as time values e.g. a starting time an end time a timer interval or duration and or the like which can include information or inferences regarding the configured values e.g. more training periods around lunch time for a restricted access point in an office etc. . In another example the configured values can relate to a deployment environment or substantially any values from which a training period can be defined. In an example training period determining component can receive the values from a HNB management system HMS not shown or other management system a user interface for the restricted access point that allows a user to specify a time interval start training etc. one or more other access points one or more devices such as device and or the like.

In any case during the determined period of time access mode component can lessen restrictions for communicating with restricted access point . In one example access mode component can cause restricted access point to operate in a hybrid mode during the period of time such to allow at least some level of access to devices that are not members of the CSG while allowing increased access to member devices. In this regard during the period of time CSG parameter component can refrain from transmitting the CSG indicator that specifies the closed access mode e.g. and or transmit a CSG indicator that specifies hybrid mode . In this regard for example registering component can detect that restricted access point is operating in hybrid access mode e.g. based at least in part on receiving the CSG identifier without a CSG indicator and or a CSG indicator that specifies a hybrid access mode . In addition restricted access point can be a primary interferer with device communications. Thus registering component can register with restricted access point operating in hybrid access mode. For example this can include performing a registration with restricted access point while device is in active mode performing an idle mode reselection to restricted access point and or the like.

Once registering component registers with the restricted access point in hybrid access mode access point measuring component can provide signal measurement information to restricted access point . Measurement receiving component can obtain the measurement information. In this regard in one example EIM component can optionally perform EIM based at least in part on the measurement information. In one example while device is connected to restricted access point access control component can restrict device access to a core network. In this regard restricted access point can initialize the hybrid access mode for device for the purpose of receiving the measurement information for EIM e.g. or other process as described . Thus access control component can block at least some communications from device intended to access the core network e.g. user plane packets etc. . In another example access point gateway and or one or more components of the core network can provide access control as described further herein.

In one example since CSG parameter component still advertises the CSG identifier during the training period registering component receives the CSG identifier and specifies the CSG identifier in a measurement report e.g. for active hand in signaling towards restricted access point as shown below in . Thus access control component can determine whether device is a member of the CSG based at least in part on the specified CSG identifier and CSG membership information received for device . In another example though access mode component is hybrid to device access mode component can indicate a closed access mode to the core network. In this regard the core network can perform access control based on receiving the CSG identifier and reported device information as for a closed mode access point. For example the core network can reject device access based on the CSG identifier and access control component can accordingly block communications from device intended for the core network. In another example access control component can decode non access stratum NAS access stratum AS Iu interface radio access network application part RANAP or similar messages received from the core network to determine whether device is a member of the CSG.

For example restricted access point can receive messages such as RANAP COMMON ID HNBAP UE REGISTRATION ACCEPT HNBAP UE REGISTRATION REJECT and or similar messages from the core network for device . In one example such messages can include a CSG rejection code. Access control component can decode such messages to determine whether device is a member of the CSG e.g. if registration is accepted or rejected based at least in part on the HNBAP messages whether a common ID is present in the RANAP COMMON ID message etc. . Moreover in an example where access point gateway facilitates communications between restricted access point and the core network access control component can determine whether device is a member of the CSG based at least in part on decoding the NAS AS Iu RANAP etc. messages from the core network to restricted access point regarding device . Access control component can control access of device to the core network and or provide access control information to restricted access point based at least in part on the decoded messages.

In any case if access control component access control component or the core network determine the device is not a member of the CSG communications from the device other than measurement reports to restricted access point e.g. communications intended for the core network can be rejected. Similarly in the case of reselection once the device is registered with restricted access point access control component can specify the CSG identifier in a connect message for the device and core network can indicate whether device is a member of the CSG. Access control component in this example can similarly control access to core network based at least in part on the indication of CSG identifier and or an indication of the access mode of device .

When the period of time is complete as determined by training period determining component CSG parameter component can again advertise the CSG indicator specifying closed access mode at restricted access point . If device is still connected to restricted access point at this time for example access mode component can additionally close the connection with device instruct device to reselect or handover to another access point e.g. based on received measurement reports and or the like.

Moreover for example access points can use scrambling code such as a PSC for scrambling a pilot signal e.g. transmitted over a CPICH to provide at least quasi orthogonality among the pilot signals of neighboring access points. In addition a portion of available PSCs can be reserved for restricted e.g. CSG access points to allow identification of the access point as CSG without processing broadcast signals to determine a CSG identifier etc. Moreover a group of PSCs can be reserved for active hand in while another group can possibly be reserved for registration e.g. from idle mode . In an example the group reserved for registration can be a null set. For example this can be based at least in part on a specification and hardcoded or otherwise configured to device restricted access point etc. In this regard during the period of time determined for training PSC selecting component can also select a PSC for scrambling that is not reserved for restricted access points indicating that the access mode is not closed e.g. to device and or a device receiving measurement reports from device . Furthermore in an example PSC selecting component can select the PSC from the group reserved for active hand in.

Thus in one example PSC selecting component can switch between a PSC reserved for a CSG access point and a PSC not so reserved. In one example PSC selecting component can perform the switching when no devices are communicating with restricted access point so as not to impact devices communicating with restricted access point . Thus in this example training period determining component can determine to begin and or end a training period when the restricted access point is not communicating with any devices. In another example PSC selecting component can switch between PSCs regardless of devices communicating with restricted access point . Where device is in a measurement reporting state for example PSC selecting component can configure device with a new PSC before switching to allow device to continue measuring. Where device is not in a measurement reporting state for example the device can perform reselection based on the PSC switch and can likely reconnect to restricted access point . It is to be appreciated that PSC selecting component can configure device with a new PSC in other cases as well such as where device is in active mode communications with restricted access point e.g. in a call such that switching the PSC can cause minimal interruption to device .

In another example PSC selecting component can maintain the same PSC regardless of training period and or can switch to a PSC that is still reserved for CSG access points during the training period. This however can prevent registering component from attempting registration with restricted access point for some devices e.g. legacy devices that are unable to process CSG information . For example registering component can utilize a neighbor cell list e.g. a whitelist of accessible neighboring cell or related access point PSCs if the PSC is for CSG access points but is in the neighbor cell list NCL registering component for the remaining devices those able to process CSG information can attempt to register with restricted access point .

Additionally it is to be appreciated that switching between a PSC reserved for CSG access points and a PSC not so reserved for example can impact manual CSG selection functionality at one or more devices since a fingerprint of the restricted access point is modified. For example where device is a member of the CSG and registers with restricted access point during the training period it may not recognize the PSC used by restricted access point following the training period and or vice versa if not in the NCL. Thus in this example device may need to re register with restricted access point following the training period when PSC selecting component scrambles CPICH using the original PSC. In this regard as well PSC selecting component can utilize the same PSC or switch to another PSC reserved for CSG access points during the training period that is in the NCL for devices that are members of the CSG to prevent such re registration.

Moreover PSC selecting component can determine a PSC to utilize based at least in part on an allocation of PSCs at various neighboring cells or access points. For example PSC selecting component can determine the allocation from one or more neighbor lists received in measurement control messages e.g. received from device and or other devices from processing broadcast signals of neighboring cells e.g. similar to a device detecting surrounding pilot signals e.g. similar to a device and or the like. In one example processing broadcast signals and or detecting surrounding pilot signals can be performed using a co located UE not shown . In one example the broadcast signals and or pilot signals can be received from the access points and or from a device that receives the signals. In another example PSC selecting component can receive the PSC from signaling by a controlling entity e.g. HMS a hardcoding configuration network specification and or the like.

In another example rather than switching to a hybrid access mode for the training period access mode component can switch to an open access mode. In this regard CSG parameter component can refrain not only from transmitting the CSG indicator but also a CSG identifier during the training period to advertise open access. Thus registering component can register with restricted access point when open access is advertised and access point measuring component can provide measurement information thereto as described. In addition in an example access control component can perform similar access control PSC selecting component can similarly select a different PSC reserved for restricted access points or not so reserved and or the like as described above. Following the training period CSG parameter component can continue broadcasting the CSG identifier and CSG indicator e.g. and or PSC selecting component can scramble the CPICH with a PSC reserved for restricted access points etc.

In yet another example rather than switching access modes CSG parameter component can advertise a CSG identifier that indicates acceptance of registrations for providing measurement information during the training period. For example the CSG identifier can be placed in an operator whitelist e.g. a whitelist of accessible CSG cells or related access points managed by a core network for one or more devices. Thus for example upon CSG parameter component advertising the CSG identifier representing the training period the registering component can detect the CSG identifier and locate the identifier in the whitelist for device . Accordingly registering component can register with restricted access point and can provide measurement information thereto as described. Following the training period the CSG parameter component can continue broadcasting the original CSG identifier.

In this example a device that is a member of the CSG may need to re register if registered during the training period e.g. since the CSG identifier used for closed access mode was not broadcasted upon registering . In addition in this example the PSC selecting component can continue using the same PSC throughout which as described can prevent registering component from attempting registration with restricted access point for some devices e.g. legacy devices that are unable to process CSG information . In addition in one example training period determining component can determine to begin a training period based at least in part on availability of the CSG identifier that indicates the training period. For example this CSG identifier can be managed by a centralized entity to ensure that restricted access points within proximity of one another do not use the CSG identifier during the same time period.

Referring to an example wireless communication system is illustrated for providing core network access control of devices handing in to an access point during a training period. System comprises a UE that can receive signals from a H e NB . H e NB can communicate with an H e NB gateway GW which can provide access to core network CN . In addition system includes a source radio access network with which UE communicates to receive access to core network . As described previously H e NB can restrict access to UEs that are members of a CSG and in this example UE is not a member. In this example H e NB can lessen restrictions e.g. operate in a hybrid or open access mode to allow UE to connect and report measurement information of H e NB as described. Thus UE can measure surrounding cells and can obtain a signal from H e NB . At UE can optionally perform CSG membership verification based at least in part on the received signal e.g. verifying a CSG identifier in the signal with a whitelist etc. . UE can transmit an RRC measurement report message to source RAN including the H e NB .

For example H e NB can be interfering with UE communications thus UE can include H e NB in the measurement report for active hand in. Where UE performed membership verification UE can additionally include an indication of whether UE is a member of the CSG of H e NB in the measurement report message . Source RAN can optionally perform access control for UE to determine whether UE can access H e NB and or a level of access to be provided as described. Source RAN can accordingly initiate relocation to the target cell for UE where the target cell is provided by H e NB and or can prevent handover of UE where source RAN determines UE is unable to access H e NB . For example source RAN can determine whether H e NB is closed based at least in part on a PSC received in the measurement report message .

In addition source RAN can communicate a RANAP relocation request to CN . CN can perform access control to determine whether UE is permitted to access CN through H e NB . In this regard UE can include a CSG identifier of H e NB in the RRC measurement report message to source RAN and source RAN can forward the CSG identifier in the RANAP relocation request as well along with an indicator of the assumed access mode of H e NB . Thus at CN can optionally perform access control to determine whether UE is a member of the CSG based at least in part on the CSG identifier e.g. and CSG subscription information stored for UE .

In this example CN can transmit the RANAP relocation request to H e NB gateway to facilitate relocating UE to H e NB . CN can indicate whether UE is a member of the CSG in the RANAP relocation request as well as the CSG identifier in one example. In addition in an example H e NB GW can additionally or alternatively perform access control at . At H e NB GW can trigger a UE registration with H e NB which again can include the CSG identifier. H e NB can additionally validate the CSG identifier. At relocation procedures can continue. Thus using the CSG identifier and or the indication of whether UE is a member of the CSG H e NB H e NB GW and or CN can control access of UE to the CN . Thus UE can connect to H e NB to at least report measurement information but may or may not be able to communicate with CN if not a member of the CSG. For example this can depend at least in part on a determination by the source RAN of H e NB access mode etc. In another example CSG and or membership indication may be absent altogether when H e NB is in open access mode or assumed open by source RAN . Moreover though not shown if it is determined that the UE is not be allowed access to H e NB H e NB GW can still notify H e NB of the attempted hand in via access control .

Referring to an example wireless communication system is illustrated for providing access control of devices reselecting to an access point during a training period. System comprises a UE that can receive signals from a H e NB . H e NB can communicate with an H e NB GW which can provide access to CN . As described previously H e NB can restrict access to UEs that are members of a CSG and in this example UE is not a member. In this example H e NB can lessen restrictions e.g. to operate in a hybrid or open access mode to allow UE to connect and report measurement information of H e NB as described. Thus UE can perform an RRC connection establishment to the H e NB .

Following establishment of the connection UE can communicate an RRC initial direct transfer to the H e NB . H e NB can check release and UE capabilities at . If UE s identity provided in is not recognizable by H e NB UE can also optionally be requested to transmit an identity to H e NB via a request response procedure . In addition H e NB can optionally perform an access control to determine whether UE is a member of a CSG related to H e NB . H e NB in either case can transmit a UE registration request to H e NB GW to determine whether UE is authorized to access H e NB . H e NB GW can optionally perform access control to determine whether UE can access H e NB and can transmit a UE registration accept and or reject to H e NB . For example the UE registration message can include a CSG identifier of H e NB and or an identity of UE as well as an indication of whether the UE supports the CSG. In another example H e NB can assume H e NB GW performs access control based at least in part on parameters received from CN regarding the UE e.g. CSG membership information and a CSG identifier if H e NB . Thus as part of access control H e NB GW can reject the UE registration or other communications where H e NB GW determines that UE is not a member of the CSG and can transmit a UE registration deny message not shown to H e NB .

In this example based at least in part on receiving the UE registration reject H e NB can register UE as non member e.g. where H e NB is in training mode . In another example H e NB can register UE as a member and depend on H e NB GW and or CS to perform access control based at least in part on H e NB indicating a closed or hybrid access mode to H e NB GW and or CN as described. In this case and or where UE registration accept is received H e NB can request connection of UE . In this example H e NB GW can include the CSG identifier in an optional connection request to CN which can be a CSG identifier other than that utilized by H e NB in a training mode as described. For example the connection request can be a skinny call control protocol SCCP message or similar protocol message. In this regard CN can determine whether UE is a member of the CSG to enforce access control. CN can communicate a connection confirm to H e NB GW which can specify whether UE is a member of the CSG.

In addition NAS procedure can continue at which can provide another optional form of access control by informing H e NB or H e NB GW e.g. via a NAS reject that UE can or cannot access H e NB . As described for example H e NB or H e NB GW can decode NAS AS Iu RANAP or other messages from CN to determine CSG membership of UE . In another example CN can utilize another message such as RANAP COMMON ID to inform H e NB or H e NB GW whether UE is a member of the CSG related to H e NB . In one example the message can include a CSG rejection code if for example UE is not a member of the CSG. Thus using the indication of whether UE is a member of the CSG H e NB H e NB GW and or CN can control access of UE to the CN . Thus UE can connect to H e NB to at least report measurement information but may be prevented from communicating e.g. sending or receiving data packets with CN if not a member of the CSG. It is to be appreciated in an example that other messages can be communicated and are not shown such as RANAP COMMON ID HNBAP UE REGISTRATION REJECT etc.

Turning to an example wireless communication system is depicted that facilitates reporting measurement information of restricted access points using MDT. System comprises a device that can communicate with an MDT service to report measured information thereto to mitigate performing drive tests as described above. For example MDT is supported in 3GPP to include a UTRAN entity to configure and collected MDT logs from devices using radio resource control RRC . In addition MDT is supported in a open mobile alliance OMA device management DM service including a centralized MDT server that configures and collects MDT logs from devices in a user plane e.g. using hypertext transport protocol HTTP etc. . In this regard MDT service can be and or can be implemented within the UTRAN entity or entities an OMA DM server e.g. where device is an OAM DM client and or the like for example. System can also include a restricted access point from which device can receive one or more signals and or an optional management server that can provide information to one or more access points. Device can be a UE modem etc. and restricted access point can be a H e NB femtocell or other base station etc. as described previously. In addition management server can be a HMS or similar management server.

Device can comprise an access point measuring component for performing measurements of one or more signals received from an access point an MDT logging component for creating one or more MDT logs according to a configuration and an MDT reporting component for communicating the one or more logs to an MDT service. MDT service can comprise an MDT receiving component for obtaining one or more MDT logs and a measurement providing component for reporting access point measurements received in the one or more MDT logs to a wireless network component. Optional management server comprises an optional measurement receiving component for obtaining one or more access point measurements from an MDT service and an optional measurement providing component for communicating the one or more access point measurements to one or more access points. Restricted access point can comprise a measurement receiving component for obtaining one or more access point measurements and an optional EIM component for performing EIM based at least in part on the one or more measurements.

According to an example device can be configured to perform MDT by measuring parameters related to one or more access points logging the parameters and reporting the logs to MDT service . In one example details regarding log format and content can be provisioned by MDT service . Access point measuring component can thus perform measurements of signals received from one or more access points such as restricted access point . In an example MDT can be utilized to perform measurements for EIM at one or more restricted access points. Thus for example access point measuring component can measure or determine a PSC cell identifier CPICH RSCP CPICH Ec lo transmit power and or the like of restricted access point . MDT logging component can insert the measured or determined parameters in a log and can associate the parameters with a cell identifier of restricted access point for subsequent identification of the parameters. In addition for example MDT logging component can associate other parameters with the measured parameters such as whether device is a member of the CSG of restricted access point .

For example access point measuring component can begin measuring such parameters and or MDT logging component can begin logging such parameters based at least in part on one or more triggers such as a timer location of device serving cell channel quality e.g. where restricted access point is an interfering cell pageability detecting restricted access point e.g. based on one or more received signals determining that logging storage is close to at or exceeding a threshold capacity and or the like. Similarly MDT reporting component can transmit one or more logs of such parameters to MDT service based at least in part on one or more triggers. For example MDT reporting component can receive a network request for the one or more logs e.g. from a core network component MDT service and or the like and MDT reporting component can accordingly provide the one or more logs to the MDT service .

MDT receiving component can obtain and store the one or more MDT logs from device . In an example measurement providing component can communicate one or more access point measurements from the MDT logs to the restricted access point or management server . For example this can be based at least in part on a request from measurement receiving component or measurement receiving component received at measurement providing component . For example the request can include an identifier of the restricted access point and measurement providing component can determine one or more access point measurements stored by MDT receiving component that correspond to the restricted access point based on the identifier. Measurement providing component can communicate the measurements to management server or restricted access point .

For example where measurement providing component communicates the one or more measurements to management server measurement receiving component can obtain the one or more measurements and measurement providing component can communicate the one or more measurements to restricted access point e.g. based at least in part on the identifier . It is to be appreciated that measurement providing component and or measurement providing component can additionally compute representations using the one or more measurements which can be provided to restricted access point . For example the one or more representations can include individual measurements a significant statistics or desired action an average of one or more measurements a statistical regression etc. as described. Measurement receiving component can obtain the one or more measurements. In one example EIM component can utilize the one or more measurements to perform EIM as described previously. For example measurement receiving component can additionally receive measurements from one or more devices that are a member of a CSG of restricted access point . EIM component can further use these measurements to perform EIM in one example.

Referring to example methodologies relating to providing measurements to restricted access points are illustrated. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance with one or more embodiments occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example it is to be appreciated that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with one or more embodiments.

Referring to an example methodology is displayed that facilitates obtaining access point measurement information from devices that are not members of a CSG. At wireless network access can be provided to one or more devices where the one or more devices are members of a CSG. For example the wireless network access can be restricted to such devices in a closed access mode. At a time period during which to allow registration from one or more other devices that are not members of the CSG can be determined For example as described this can be determined based at least in part on one or more received time value parameters one or more parameters regarding communicating with devices and or the like. In addition at access point measurement information can be received from the one or more other devices during the period of time. Thus for example registrations can be allowed during the period of time to facilitate receiving the access point measurement information at least in part by advertising a hybrid access mode e.g. by broadcasting the CSG identifier without the CSG indicator an open access mode e.g. by refraining from broadcasting the CSG identifier and the CSG indicator and or the like as described.

Turning to an example methodology is displayed that facilitates reporting access point measurements to a MDT service. At one or more measurements of a signal from a restricted access point can be performed. For example the measurements can relate to one or more measurements that can be used for performing EIM as described. At a MDT log can be generated comprising the one or more measurements along with a related cell identifier. As described the restricted access point may not allow access thus the measurements cannot be directly reported thereto. At the MDT log can be reported to an MDT service. For example by including the cell identifier the MDT service can differentiate the measurements for reporting to the restricted access point corresponding to the cell identifier.

Referring to an example methodology for performing EIM is illustrated. At one or more measurements can be received from a MDT service. For example the one or more measurements can be reported by a device as described. In addition the one or more measurements can be received based at least in part on requesting such from the MDT service e.g. and or from a management service that communicates with the MDT service . As described for example the one or more measurements can include individual measurements related to an access point a significant statistic or desired action an average a statistical regression and or the like. At the one or more access point measurements can be utilized in performing EIM. For example one or more measurements from a device in the CSG can also be utilized.

Turning to an example methodology is depicted for communicating access point measurements received from a device. At a MDT log comprising one or more access point measurements can be received from a device. As described the MDT log can additionally comprise cell identifiers related to the measurements to facilitate differentiating the measurements for providing to one or more access points. At at least one of the access point measurements from the MDT log can be provided to a restricted access point based at least in part on a cell identifier. In addition for example measurements can be processed as described so as to provide a desired representation e.g. a significant statistic desired action average of measurements a statistical regression etc. to the restricted access point.

It will be appreciated that in accordance with one or more aspects described herein inferences can be made regarding determining a period of time for allowing devices to register at an access point determining when to log and or report measurements in MDT and or the like as described. As used herein the term to infer or inference refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

Mobile device can additionally comprise memory that is operatively coupled to processor and that can store data to be transmitted received data information related to available channels data associated with analyzed signal and or interference strength information related to an assigned channel power rate or the like and any other suitable information for estimating a channel and communicating via the channel. Memory can additionally store protocols and or algorithms associated with estimating and or utilizing a channel e.g. performance based capacity based etc. .

It will be appreciated that the data store e.g. memory described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . The memory of the subject systems and methods is intended to comprise without being limited to these and any other suitable types of memory.

Processor can further be optionally operatively coupled to an access point measuring component which can be similar to access point measuring component a MDT logging component which can be similar to MDT logging component and or a MDT reporting component which can be similar to MDT reporting component . Mobile device still further comprises a modulator that modulates signals for transmission by transmitter to for instance a base station another mobile device etc. Although depicted as being separate from the processor it is to be appreciated that the access point measuring component MDT logging component MDT reporting component demodulator and or modulator can be part of the processor or multiple processors not shown and or stored as instructions in memory for execution by processor .

Processor is further optionally coupled to an access mode component which can be similar to access mode component a training period determining component which can be similar to training period determining component and or a measurement receiving component which can be similar to measurement receiving component or . Processor can further be optionally coupled to an access control component which can be similar to access control component and an EIM component which can be similar to EIM component .

Moreover for example processor can modulate signals to be transmitted using modulator and transmit modulated signals using transmitter . Transmitter can transmit signals to mobile devices over Tx antennas . Furthermore although depicted as being separate from the processor it is to be appreciated that the access mode component training period determining component measurement receiving component access control component EIM component demodulator and or modulator can be part of the processor or multiple processors not shown and or stored as instructions in memory for execution by processor .

Referring to in one aspect any of MDT service or management sever H e NB GW or components of CN or etc. e.g. can be represented by and or implemented within computer device . Computer device includes a processor for carrying out processing functions associated with one or more of components and functions described herein. Processor can include a single or multiple set of processors or multi core processors. Moreover processor can be implemented as an integrated processing system and or a distributed processing system.

Computer device further includes a memory such as for storing local versions of applications being executed by processor . Memory can include substantially any type of memory usable by a computer such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM tapes magnetic discs optical discs volatile memory non volatile memory and any combination thereof. Computer device also includes one or more components which can be stored in memory executed by processor e.g. based on instructions stored in memory be implemented within one or more processors and or the like.

Further computer device includes a communications component that provides for establishing and maintaining communications with one or more parties utilizing hardware software and services as described herein. Communications component may carry communications between components on computer device as well as between computer device and external devices such as devices located across a communications network and or devices serially or locally connected to computer device . For example communications component may include one or more buses and may further include transmit chain components and receive chain components associated with a transmitter and receiver respectively operable for interfacing with external devices.

Additionally computer device may further include a data store which can be any suitable combination of hardware and or software that provides for mass storage of information databases and programs employed in connection with aspects described herein. For example data store may be a data repository for applications not currently being executed by processor .

Computer device may optionally include an interface component operable to receive inputs from a user of computer device and further operable to generate outputs for presentation to the user. Interface component may include one or more input devices including but not limited to a keyboard a number pad a mouse a touch sensitive display a navigation key a function key a microphone a voice recognition component any other mechanism capable of receiving an input from a user or any combination thereof. Further interface component may include one or more output devices including but not limited to a display a speaker a haptic feedback mechanism a printer any other mechanism capable of presenting an output to a user or any combination thereof. In another example interface component can be an application programming interface API that can be accessed by one or more devices to perform functions on computer device .

In addition in the depicted example computer device can optionally include one or more of MDT receiving component which can be similar to MDT receiving component measurement providing component which can be similar to measurement providing components and and or measurement receiving component which can be similar to measurement receiving component . Thus these components and or can utilize processor to execute instructions associated therewith memory to store information associated therewith communications component to carry out communications and or the like as described. In addition it is to be appreciated that computer device can include additional or alternative components described herein.

With reference to illustrated is a system that allows device registration for receiving access point measurement information. For example system can reside at least partially within an access point etc. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance logical grouping can include an electrical component for providing wireless network access to one or more devices where the one or more devices are members of a CSG . For example electrical component can utilize a closed access mode. Further logical grouping can comprise an electrical component for determining a period of time during which to allow registration from one or more other devices that are not members of the CSG .

For example this can include advertising a hybrid or open access mode as described previously. Moreover logical grouping can include an electrical component for receiving access point measurement information from the one or more other devices during the period of time . As described for example EIM can be performed using the access point measurement information. For example electrical component can include an access mode component as described above. In addition for example electrical component in an aspect can include a training period determining component as described above. Moreover electrical component can include a measurement receiving component as described. Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with the electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of the electrical components and can exist within memory .

In one example electrical components and can comprise at least one processor or each electrical component and can be a corresponding module of at least one processor. Moreover in an additional or alternative example electrical components and can be a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium where each electrical component and can be corresponding code.

With reference to illustrated is a system that reports one or more access point measurements in an MDT log. For example system can reside at least partially within a UE etc. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance logical grouping can include an electrical component for performing one or more measurements of a signal from a restricted access point . Further logical grouping can comprise an electrical component for generating a MDT log comprising the one or more measurements along with a related cell identifier .

For example this can facilitate subsequent identification of the one or more measurements for providing to an access point. Moreover logical grouping can include an electrical component for reporting the MDT log to an MDT service . For example the MDT service can then provide the measurements to related access points as described. For example electrical component can include an access point measuring component as described above. In addition for example electrical component in an aspect can include a MDT logging component as described above. Moreover electrical component can include a MDT reporting component as described. Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with the electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of the electrical components and can exist within memory .

In one example electrical components and can comprise at least one processor or each electrical component and can be a corresponding module of at least one processor. Moreover in an additional or alternative example electrical components and can be a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium where each electrical component and can be corresponding code.

With reference to illustrated is a system for performing EIM. For example system can reside at least partially within an access point etc. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance logical grouping can include an electrical component for receiving one or more access point measurements from a MDT service . The one or more access point measurements can be measured by a device as described and reported to the MDT service. Furthermore for example the MDT service can provide the one or more access point measurements through a management server. In addition for example the one or more measurements can be received based on a request for such.

Further logical grouping can comprise an electrical component for utilizing the one or more access point measurements in performing an EIM . As described for example one or more additional measurements can be additionally received from one or more devices that are a member of a CSG and EIM can be further performed based at least in part on the additional measurements. For example electrical component can include a measurement receiving component as described above. In addition for example electrical component in an aspect can include a EIM component as described above. Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with the electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of the electrical components and can exist within memory .

In one example electrical components and can comprise at least one processor or each electrical component and can be a corresponding module of at least one processor. Moreover in an additional or alternative example electrical components and can be a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium where each electrical component and can be corresponding code.

With reference to illustrated is a system that provides access point measurements from an MDT log to one or more restricted access points. For example system can reside at least partially within a MDT service etc. It is to be appreciated that system is represented as including functional blocks which can be functional blocks that represent functions implemented by a processor software or combination thereof e.g. firmware . System includes a logical grouping of electrical components that can act in conjunction. For instance logical grouping can include an electrical component for receiving a MDT log comprising one or more access point measurements from a device . As described for example the MDT log can comprise the access point measurements along with an identifier of the corresponding access point.

Further logical grouping can comprise an electrical component for providing at least one of the one or more access point measurements from the MDT log to a restricted access point based at least in part on determining a cell identifier in the at least one of the one or more access point measurements . For example electrical component can include a measurement receiving component as described above. In addition for example electrical component in an aspect can include a measurement providing component as described above. Additionally system can include a memory that retains instructions for executing functions associated with the electrical components and . While shown as being external to memory it is to be understood that one or more of the electrical components and can exist within memory .

In one example electrical components and can comprise at least one processor or each electrical component and can be a corresponding module of at least one processor. Moreover in an additional or alternative example electrical components and can be a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium where each electrical component and can be corresponding code.

Referring now to a wireless communication system is illustrated in accordance with various embodiments presented herein. System comprises a base station that can include multiple antenna groups. For example one antenna group can include antennas and another group can comprise antennas and and an additional group can include antennas and . Two antennas are illustrated for each antenna group however more or fewer antennas can be utilized for each group. Base station can additionally include a transmitter chain and a receiver chain each of which can in turn comprise a plurality of components associated with signal transmission and reception e.g. processors modulators multiplexers demodulators demultiplexers antennas etc. as is appreciated.

Base station can communicate with one or more mobile devices such as mobile device and mobile device however it is to be appreciated that base station can communicate with substantially any number of mobile devices similar to mobile devices and . Mobile devices and can be for example cellular phones smart phones laptops handheld communication devices handheld computing devices satellite radios global positioning systems PDAs and or any other suitable device for communicating over wireless communication system . As depicted mobile device is in communication with antennas and where antennas and transmit information to mobile device over a forward link and receive information from mobile device over a reverse link . Moreover mobile device is in communication with antennas and where antennas and transmit information to mobile device over a forward link and receive information from mobile device over a reverse link . In a frequency division duplex FDD system forward link can utilize a different frequency band than that used by reverse link and forward link can employ a different frequency band than that employed by reverse link for example. Further in a time division duplex TDD system forward link and reverse link can utilize a common frequency band and forward link and reverse link can utilize a common frequency band.

Each group of antennas and or the area in which they are designated to communicate can be referred to as a sector of base station . For example antenna groups can be designed to communicate to mobile devices in a sector of the areas covered by base station . In communication over forward links and the transmitting antennas of base station can utilize beamforming to improve signal to noise ratio of forward links and for mobile devices and . Also while base station utilizes beamforming to transmit to mobile devices and scattered randomly through an associated coverage mobile devices in neighboring cells can be subject to less interference as compared to a base station transmitting through a single antenna to all its mobile devices. Moreover mobile devices and can communicate directly with one another using a peer to peer or ad hoc technology as depicted. According to an example system can be a multiple input multiple output MIMO communication system.

At base station traffic data for a number of data streams is provided from a data source to a transmit TX data processor . According to an example each data stream can be transmitted over a respective antenna. TX data processor formats codes and interleaves the traffic data stream based on a particular coding scheme selected for that data stream to provide coded data.

The coded data for each data stream can be multiplexed with pilot data using orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM techniques. Additionally or alternatively the pilot symbols can be frequency division multiplexed FDM time division multiplexed TDM or code division multiplexed CDM . The pilot data is typically a known data pattern that is processed in a known manner and can be used at mobile device to estimate channel response. The multiplexed pilot and coded data for each data stream can be modulated e.g. symbol mapped based on a particular modulation scheme e.g. binary phase shift keying BPSK quadrature phase shift keying QPSK M phase shift keying M PSK M quadrature amplitude modulation M QAM etc. selected for that data stream to provide modulation symbols. The data rate coding and modulation for each data stream can be determined by instructions performed or provided by processor .

The modulation symbols for the data streams can be provided to a TX MIMO processor which can further process the modulation symbols e.g. for OFDM . TX MIMO processor then provides Nmodulation symbol streams to Ntransmitters TMTR through . In various embodiments TX MIMO processor applies beamforming weights to the symbols of the data streams and to the antenna from which the symbol is being transmitted.

Each transmitter receives and processes a respective symbol stream to provide one or more analog signals and further conditions e.g. amplifies filters and upconverts the analog signals to provide a modulated signal suitable for transmission over the MIMO channel. Further Nmodulated signals from transmitters through are transmitted from Nantennas through respectively.

At mobile device the transmitted modulated signals are received by Nantennas through and the received signal from each antenna is provided to a respective receiver RCVR through . Each receiver conditions e.g. filters amplifies and downconverts a respective signal digitizes the conditioned signal to provide samples and further processes the samples to provide a corresponding received symbol stream.

An RX data processor can receive and process the Nreceived symbol streams from Nreceivers based on a particular receiver processing technique to provide N detected symbol streams. RX data processor can demodulate deinterleave and decode each detected symbol stream to recover the traffic data for the data stream. The processing by RX data processor is complementary to that performed by TX MIMO processor and TX data processor at base station .

The reverse link message can comprise various types of information regarding the communication link and or the received data stream. The reverse link message can be processed by a TX data processor which also receives traffic data for a number of data streams from a data source modulated by a modulator conditioned by transmitters through and transmitted back to base station .

At base station the modulated signals from mobile device are received by antennas conditioned by receivers demodulated by a demodulator and processed by a RX data processor to extract the reverse link message transmitted by mobile device . Further processor can process the extracted message to determine which precoding matrix to use for determining the beamforming weights.

Processors and can direct e.g. control coordinate manage etc. operation at base station and mobile device respectively. Respective processors and can be associated with memory and that store program codes and data. Processors and can also perform computations to derive frequency and impulse response estimates for the uplink and downlink respectively.

Referring again to the owner of a femto node can subscribe to mobile service such as for example 3G mobile service offered through the mobile operator core network . In addition an access terminal can be capable of operating both in macro environments and in smaller scale e.g. residential network environments. Thus for example depending on the current location of the access terminal the access terminal can be served by an access node or by any one of a set of femto nodes e.g. the femto nodes A and B that reside within a corresponding user residence . For example when a subscriber is outside his home he is served by a standard macro cell access node e.g. node and when the subscriber is at home he is served by a femto node e.g. node A . Here it should be appreciated that a femto node can be backward compatible with existing access terminals .

A femto node can be deployed on a single frequency or in the alternative on multiple frequencies. Depending on the particular configuration the single frequency or one or more of the multiple frequencies can overlap with one or more frequencies used by a macro cell access node e.g. node . In some aspects an access terminal can be configured to connect to a preferred femto node e.g. the home femto node of the access terminal whenever such connectivity is possible. For example whenever the access terminal is within the user s residence it can communicate with the home femto node .

In some aspects if the access terminal operates within the mobile operator core network but is not residing on its most preferred network e.g. as defined in a preferred roaming list the access terminal can continue to search for the most preferred network e.g. femto node using a Better System Reselection BSR which can involve a periodic scanning of available systems to determine whether better systems are currently available and subsequent efforts to associate with such preferred systems. Using an acquisition table entry e.g. in a preferred roaming list in one example the access terminal can limit the search for specific band and channel. For example the search for the most preferred system can be repeated periodically. Upon discovery of a preferred femto node such as femto node the access terminal selects the femto node for camping within its coverage area.

A femto node can be restricted in some aspects. For example a given femto node can only provide certain services to certain access terminals. In deployments with so called restricted or closed association a given access terminal can only be served by the macro cell mobile network and a defined set of femto nodes e.g. the femto nodes that reside within the corresponding user residence . In some implementations a femto node can be restricted to not provide for at least one access terminal at least one of signaling data access registration paging or service.

In some aspects a restricted femto node which can also be referred to as a Closed Subscriber Group H e NB is one that provides service to a restricted provisioned set of access terminals. This set can be temporarily or permanently extended as necessary. In some aspects a Closed Subscriber Group CSG can be defined as the set of access nodes e.g. femto nodes that share a common access control list of access terminals. A channel on which all femto nodes or all restricted femto nodes in a region operate can be referred to as a femto channel.

Various relationships can thus exist between a given femto node and a given access terminal. For example from the perspective of an access terminal an open femto node can refer to a femto node with no restricted association. A restricted femto node can refer to a femto node that is restricted in some manner e.g. restricted for association and or registration . A home femto node can refer to a femto node on which the access terminal is authorized to access and operate on. A guest femto node can refer to a femto node on which an access terminal is temporarily authorized to access or operate on. An alien femto node can refer to a femto node on which the access terminal is not authorized to access or operate on except for perhaps emergency situations e.g. 911 calls .

From a restricted femto node perspective a home access terminal can refer to an access terminal that authorized to access the restricted femto node. A guest access terminal can refer to an access terminal with temporary access to the restricted femto node. An alien access terminal can refer to an access terminal that does not have permission to access the restricted femto node except for perhaps emergency situations for example 911 calls e.g. an access terminal that does not have the credentials or permission to register with the restricted femto node .

For convenience the disclosure herein describes various functionality in the context of a femto node. It should be appreciated however that a pico node can provide the same or similar functionality as a femto node but for a larger coverage area. For example a pico node can be restricted a home pico node can be defined for a given access terminal and so on.

A wireless multiple access communication system can simultaneously support communication for multiple wireless access terminals. As mentioned above each terminal can communicate with one or more base stations via transmissions on the forward and reverse links. The forward link or downlink refers to the communication link from the base stations to the terminals and the reverse link or uplink refers to the communication link from the terminals to the base stations. This communication link can be established via a single in single out system a MIMO system or some other type of system.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules components and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more aspects the functions methods or algorithms described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also substantially any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Additionally all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise.

