---

title: Facilitating social networking service connections via an ad hoc peer-to-peer network of mobile devices
abstract: A first mobile device may be configured to facilitate context-aware, graph-based interactions. For example, the first mobile device receives a first communication from a second mobile device. The first communication includes a second member identifier of a second member of the social networking service. The second member identifier may be associated with the second mobile device. In response to the receiving of the first communication, the first mobile device may determine, based on the second member identifier, that the second member is one of a plurality of members of the social networking service. The first mobile device may facilitate the establishing of the wireless peer-to-peer connection with the second mobile device based on the determining that that the second member is one of the plurality of members of the social networking service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09572000&OS=09572000&RS=09572000
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09572000
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141031
---
This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 62 057 937 filed on Sep. 30 2014 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present application relates generally to the processing of data and in various example embodiments to systems methods and computer program products for facilitating social networking service connections via an ad hoc peer to peer network of mobile devices.

A mobile device e.g. a mobile phone a tablet etc. may be used to make and receive telephone calls over a radio link by connecting to a cellular network provided by a mobile phone operator. In addition to telephony mobile devices also support a wide variety of other services such as text messaging MMS email Internet access short range wireless communications business applications gaming and photography.

To provide users with access to such services the mobile communications of today often rely on a hub and spoke architecture or access to a centralized server to facilitate a connection or exchange of data between two mobile devices. In some instances the dependency of mobile devices on a communication intermediary to facilitate a connection between the mobile devices may be unproductive inefficient or undesirable.

For example a number of people attending a business meeting may be interested in exchanging business cards. The exchange of paper or electronic business card by the meeting attendees may interfere with the conducting of the business meeting or with the exchange of ideas. As such the exchange of business cards may become a hindrance to accomplishing the goals of the meeting. While the exchange of paper business cards may have fallen out of favor with many people due to the tendency to lose such paper business cards the traditional exchange of electronic business cards may be quite time consuming.

In some instances the receiving meeting attendee may access one or more electronic business cards of the other attendees at one or more web sites hosted on one or more web servers. In other instances a meeting attendee may transmit his or her electronic business card via email to the other meeting attendees. Because the traditional exchange of electronic business cards involves the transmitting and receiving of communications to and from a webserver or a mail server the traditional exchange of electronic business cards may be inefficient especially when the people exchanging the electronic business cards are in the same meeting. A better solution to allowing attendees at a meeting or any other event to learn about the people they meet at the event and to memorialize such interactions may be needed.

Example methods and systems for facilitating the establishing of an ad hoc peer to peer network of mobile devices associated with members of a social networking service and the establishing of social networking service connections between the members of the social networking service via the ad hoc peer to peer network of mobile devices are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident to one skilled in the art however that the present subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. Furthermore unless explicitly stated otherwise components and functions are optional and may be combined or subdivided and operations may vary in sequence or be combined or subdivided.

The mobile device users who attend an event e.g. a meeting a conference etc. may find it beneficial to be able to view in user interfaces of their mobile devices information regarding the other attendees of the meeting. Such information may include the attendees names and pictures electronic business cards profiles e.g. titles seniority employer s name decision maker colleges attended etc. and other relevant information pertaining to the attendees of the meeting.

A plurality of mobile devices associated with a plurality of members of a social networking service also SNS such as LinkedIn may be configured to establish an ad hoc wireless peer to peer network e.g. a session or a connection that includes the plurality of mobile devices and to transmit data between the connected mobile devices without the involvement of a server. A mobile device associated with a member of the social network and connected via the peer to peer network may exchange e.g. transmit or receive electronic business cards with the other mobile devices in the peer to peer network transmit its user s member profile on the social networking service to the other mobile devices or receive other member profiles from the other mobile devices transmit or receive invitations for members to chat via the ad hoc wireless peer to peer network transmit or receive invitations for members to connect via the social networking service establish social networking connections on the social networking service between members of the social networking service via the ad hoc wireless peer to peer network display communications e.g. communications that are about to be transmitted to other mobile devices via the peer to peer network or communications received from other mobile device via the peer to peer network etc.

The establishing of an ad hoc wireless one to one connection or of a multi peer connection among mobile devices without the use of a server may enhance the experiences of the users of the mobile devices who are attending the meeting for example by facilitating speedy interactions among the users by providing information directly to the mobile devices included in the an ad hoc wireless peer to peer connection or by providing prompts to establish social networking connections among the users. In some example embodiments a mobile device of a meeting attendee may determine the identities of the other meeting attendees based on the identifiers e.g. member identifiers advertised to a local area by the mobile devices of the other meeting attendees. Also the mobile device of a particular member may identify which of the other attending members are existing social networking service connections of the particular member and may display the names of the existing connections in a user interface of the mobile device of the particular member.

Further the mobile device may identify the members who are not connected via the social networking service and may prompt the respective members to connect via the social networking service. In addition the mobile device may obtain information about the other attendees backgrounds and display that information in the user interfaces of the mobile devices of the other attendees. The mobile device may also store the names and photographs of the meeting attendees in some instances in association with data that identifies certain attendees as being met by the user of the mobile device at the respective meeting for the first time. These and other functionalities of a mobile device connected via an ad hoc multi peer network may allow the user of the device to take notes with reference to the speaker identify the decision maker in the group have chat sessions with other attendees during the meeting learn about new people attending who were not scheduled to attend remember the names of the attendees met at the respective meeting for the first time match names to faces via photographs presented via the mobile device etc.

Furthermore in some example embodiments the mobile device s may memorialize e.g. store a record of the activities that involved the mobile device s the ad hoc wireless peer to peer network or both on the mobile device s and or in one or more records of a database associated with the social networking service e.g. via a server of an interaction support system . For example a record of the activity that pertains to the users of the mobile devices exchanging electronic business cards via the ad hoc wireless peer to peer network may be stored by at least one of the involved mobile devices as member activity and behavior data in a database associated with the social networking system.

In another example the mobile device of the member Alice White and the mobile device of the member Bob Smith are connected via the peer to peer network. Alice s mobile device may display an identifier e.g. the name and or photograph of Bob in a user interface of Alice s mobile device. Similarly Bob s mobile device may display an identifier e.g. the name and or photograph of Alice in a user interface of Bob s mobile device. Alice may request to connect with Bob via the social networking service by for example clicking on a Connect button displayed in the user interface of Alice s mobile device in association with the identifier of Bob. Alice s mobile device may transmit a communication including an invitation to connect with Bob on the social networking service to Bob s mobile device via the ad hoc wireless peer to peer network.

Alice s mobile device may also transmit a communication to a server associated with the social networking service. The communication to the server may indicate that Alice invited Bob to connect on the social networking service. The server may generate a database record that indicates that Alice has invited Bob to connect via the social networking service. In some example embodiments the generating of the database record may allow the maintaining of an up to date list of invitations received by Bob. For example if upon receiving Alice s invitation to connect Bob were to view a website associated with the social networking service he may be able to see an indication of Alice s invitation to connect via the social networking service.

Bob may accept Alice s invitation to connect via the social networking service e.g. by selecting an Accept button in the user interface of the Bob s mobile device . In response to the communication including the invitation to connect on the social networking service received from Alice s mobile device Bob s mobile device may transmit a further e.g. a second communication including an acceptance of Alice s invitation to connect on the social networking service via the ad hoc wireless peer to peer network. Upon receiving the second communication from Bob s mobile device Alice s mobile device may display an indication of Bob s acceptance of Alice s invitation to connect in the user interface of Alice s mobile device e.g. Bob accepted your invitation to connect via the SNS. .

Bob s mobile device may also transmit another communication to the server associated with the social networking service. The other communication to the server may indicate that Bob accepted Alice s invitation to connect on the social networking service. Based on the other communication the server may generate another database record that indicates that Alice and Bob have established a connection via the social networking service. Further the server may update the record s that pertain to the two members e.g. Alice and Bob in a social graph database to indicate the establishing of the new relationship between the two members of the social networking service. The new relationship between the two members may be represented by a new edge connecting a first graph node representing one of the two members e.g. Alice and a second graph node representing the other of the two members e.g. Bob .

In certain example embodiments the context or the physical circumstances associated with one or more members of the social network at a particular time may be leveraged e.g. by the mobile devices or by an interaction support system to facilitate context aware social graph based interactions between the members via the members mobile devices. According to one example based on access to a member s calendar geolocation e.g. GPS data member profile data or a suitable combination thereof one or more mobile devices of the attending members or the interaction support system may identify the people that a particular member is likely to meet at a scheduled event. The mobile devices or the interaction support system may provide the names email addresses or other additional data determined e.g. by the mobile devices or by the interaction support system to be pertinent to the meeting or useful to a particular member. During the meeting the mobile devices of the attending members may automatically establish a multi peer connection between the mobile devices and facilitate the transmission of data e.g. electronic business cards between the attending members. A record of the attendees and the data transmitted may be stored on one or more of the mobile devices of the members attending the meeting. In some instances the record of the attendees and the data transmitted may be stored in a database associated with the interaction support system.

In some example embodiments a plurality of mobile devices that have WiFi or Bluetooth capabilities activated and that are located within a particular distance from each other may discover each other and may establish one or more ad hoc wireless peer to peer connections e.g. one or more wireless peer to peer networks among themselves all without the involvement of an intermediary entity e.g. a server . Some or all of the functionalities associated with the establishing of the one or more wireless peer to peer connections among the mobile devices may be performed by one or more modules associated with one or more copies of an application executed on the respective mobile devices.

In some example embodiments a user of a mobile device that hosts a copy of such an application interacts with the copy of the application via a user interface of the mobile device when configuring one or more settings associated with the copy of the application. The user may specify that the mobile device may automatically establish ad hoc wireless peer to peer networks with other mobile devices that host other copies of the application. Based on the configuration provided by the user of the mobile device the mobile device may participate in the establishing of one or more wireless peer to peer connections with other mobile devices discovered in a local area. The wireless peer to peer connections among a plurality of mobile devices may be established ad hoc e.g. without planning based on the plurality of mobile devices being within a distance from each other and discovering the presence of each other.

For example a particular mobile device may broadcast or advertise its availability to establish wireless peer to peer connections with one or more other mobile devices located within a particular distance from the particular mobile device. The one or more other mobile devices may receive the broadcast of the particular mobile devices may respond to the broadcast and may participate in the establishing of the wireless peer to peer connections among the mobile devices. In some instances the mobile devices may facilitate the establishing of the wireless peer to peer connections with the other advertising mobile devices based on determining that the users associated with the other mobile devices are members of the social networking service.

In some example embodiments the iBeacon technology provided by Apple Inc. may be used by a plurality of mobile devices to facilitate the establishment of an ad hoc wireless peer to peer connection among the plurality of mobile devices using Bluetooth low energy proximity sensing. The plurality of mobile devices may be both transmitting e.g. broadcasting advertising etc. communications to other mobile devices in a local area and receiving communications from the other mobile devices in the local area. As such the advertising mobile device and the listening mobile device may have both advertising and listening capabilities.

According to certain example embodiments one or more of the mobile devices host copies of an application that performs one or more of the functionalities associated with establishing the wireless ad hoc peer to peer connection. The copies of the application may associate the one or more mobile devices with a universally unique identifier UUID for purposes of identifying other mobile devices in the local area that have the same UUID and facilitating the establishing of an ad hoc wireless peer to peer network among a plurality of mobile device in the local area.

For example a mobile device broadcasts a communication including a UUID to a local area. The mobile device may also broadcast a major number and a minor number. The major and minor numbers may be mapped to a member identifier associated with the advertising device by a listening mobile device. The member identifier may be generated in some instances upon the user of the advertising mobile device being authenticated by the advertising mobile device e.g. based on login data provided by the user . According to some example embodiments without determining that the user s login data maps to a valid member identifier the advertising mobile device may not advertise its availability to participate in establishing or joining the ad hoc wireless peer to peer network.

The transmitted UUID may be picked up by another mobile device that is listening for UUIDs. In some example embodiments the other mobile device e.g. the listening mobile device determines that the UUID received from the transmitting mobile device is the same as its own UUID. Upon matching the received UUID and its own UUID the listening mobile device may access and map a combination of the major and minor numbers received from the transmitting mobile device to a member identifier of a particular member of a social networking service. In some example embodiments the major and minor numbers are encrypted at the advertising mobile device and are decrypted at a listening mobile device. In some instances if the listening mobile device does not match the received UUID with its own UUID the listening mobile device may not access or decrypt the major and minor numbers.

The member identifier of the particular member may be associated with the advertising mobile device. The listening mobile device may determine that the user associated with the advertising mobile device is a member of the social networking service. In some example embodiments a plurality of mobile devices may participate in the establishing of a wireless peer to peer connection among themselves based on determining that the users associated with the respective mobile devices are members of the social networking service. In some example embodiments a listening mobile device participates in establishing or joining an ad hoc wireless peer to peer network only with transmitting mobile devices that are associated with the same UUID as the listening mobile device.

The iBeacon technology may allow the determination of the proximity of certain mobile device. For example a particular mobile device may determine based on the advertising transmitted by another mobile device whether the other device is in an immediate proximity to the particular mobile device is near the particular mobile device or is far from the mobile device. For example the particular mobile device may determine a received signal strength indicator RSSI value associated with a radio signal received from the other mobile device. The particular mobile device may identify a distance value between the particular mobile device and the other mobile device based on the RSSI value.

In some example embodiments if the distance between two mobile devices is determined by a mobile device to not exceed a threshold value e.g. a proximity threshold value the two mobile devices automatically establish the wireless peer to peer connection between the two mobile devices. In certain example embodiments if the distance between two mobile devices is determined by a mobile device to exceed the threshold value the two mobile devices issue queries displayed to the users associated with the respective mobile devices. The queries may for example be in the form of a question regarding the connecting to the other mobile device e.g. Would you like to connect to the mobile device of John Doe or Would you like to connect to John Doe .

In various example embodiments a plurality of mobile devices may utilize the multi peer connectivity technology to facilitate the establishment of a wireless peer to peer connection among the plurality of mobile devices. The multi peer connectivity technology may allow mobile devices to send connection requests accept connection requests facilitate chatting among the users of the connected mobile devices send files etc.

During the initial discovery phase of the establishing of a multi peer session a plurality of mobile devices advertise their peer identifier ID and receive the peer IDs of other mobile devices from other mobile devices located at a particular distance from each other. In some instances the peer ID is a member identifier ID . In other instances the peer ID identifies a particular mobile device and may be mapped to the member ID of the user associated with the particular mobile device.

Upon discovering each other the plurality of mobile devices may automatically establish connections among all the discovered mobile devices that advertised their peer IDs. The connections are established locally peer to peer e.g. mobile device to mobile device without the involvement of the server. The mobile devices may display a number of identifiers of the users associated with the connected peers e.g. the mobile devices in user interfaces of the mobile devices. The peers may join the session and may leave the session. When a peer leaves the session the peer is dropped out of the pool of connections and the number of connected users that may be seen on the screen of each remaining mobile device is decreased to indicate that a particular peer has left the session.

According to certain example embodiments the peer to peer connection among a plurality of mobile devices is established automatically based on the users associated with the respective mobile devices previously configuring copies of a particular application e.g. a social networking application hosted on their mobile devices to automatically establish the wireless peer to peer connections. In some example embodiments the mobile device advertises e.g. broadcasts a first identifier to a local area. The first identifier in some instances is a device identifier of the mobile device . In other instances the identifier is a member identifier of the member of the social network associated with the mobile device . The mobile device may broadcast the first identifier via a transceiver of the mobile device .

Similarly the mobile devices and may advertise e.g. broadcast a second identifier and a third identifier of the mobile device and the mobile device respectively to the local area. The second and third identifiers in some instances are device identifiers of the mobile devices and respectively. In other instances the second and third identifiers are member identifiers of the members of the social network associated with the mobile device and respectively. In some example embodiments the advertised identifiers may be referenced in the communications broadcast e.g. transmitted by the mobile devices or respectively.

In addition to broadcasting communications the mobile device listens to communications broadcast by other mobile devices e.g. the mobile devices and located within the proximity e.g. a local area or a particular distance of the mobile device . Similarly the mobile devices and listen to communications broadcast by other mobile devices located within the proximity of the mobile devices and respectively e.g. the mobile device and for the mobile device and the mobile devices and for the mobile device .

When the mobile device discovers an advertising device e.g. the mobile device or the mobile device the mobile device may send a request to the advertising device to establish a wireless peer to peer connection which the advertising device may accept or decline. In some example embodiments a mobile device makes the determination whether to accept or decline the request to establish the peer to peer connection based on the configuration settings associated with the application executed on the mobile device.

In some instances when the configuration settings e.g. provided by the user of the mobile device specify a permission to automatically establish the peer to peer connections the mobile device may automatically establish the wireless peer to peer connection with the requesting mobile device s in response to the received request s to establish the wireless peer to peer connection. In other instances when the configuration settings do not specify a permission to automatically establish the peer to peer connections the mobile device generates and presents a communication to the user of the mobile device via a user interface of the mobile device. The communication may for example be in the form of a question regarding the connecting to the other mobile device e.g. Would you like to connect to the mobile device of John Doe or Would you like to connect to John Doe 

By accepting the invitation to connect a session is established and the mobile devices may start communicating. The mobile devices may communicate by transmitting data such as images video texts etc.

The session or peer to peer connection or peer to peer network may be established between two or more peers e.g. mobile devices . For example as shown in the mobile devices and are included in the multi peer connection established by the mobile devices and . If one of the mobile devices leaves the session the session may be maintained as long as at least two mobile devices are still connected.

As shown in the mobile device displays a user interface to a first user associated with the mobile device . Similarly the mobile device displays a user interface to a second user associated with the mobile device and the mobile device displays a user interface to a third user associated with the mobile device . The mobile devices and may display a variety of information in the user interfaces or respectively.

In addition to discovering other mobile devices with which to connect the mobile devices may facilitate interactions by the users associated with the mobile devices. In various example embodiments the mobile devices may provide the users of the respective mobile devices with information regarding the wireless peer to peer session established among the respective mobile devices e.g. which users are still connected . In some example embodiments a mobile device may generate a message for the user of the mobile device to trigger an action by the user e.g. the transmitting of a text message to another user associated with another mobile device the transmitting of an invitation to connect via the social networking service etc. . In certain example embodiments a first mobile device may respond to a query generated by a second mobile device. The query may pertain to the user associated with the first mobile device. These and other items of content generated by the mobile devices may be displayed by the mobile devices in one or more user interfaces of the mobile devices connected wirelessly via the peer to peer session.

For example as shown in the user interface of the mobile device may inform the first user about the members of the social networking service who are discovered e.g. by the mobile device to be in a proximity to the mobile device by displaying a statement such as Social Networking Service SNC Members Nearby Bob Smith and Catherine Jones. The member Bob Smith may be the second user associated with the mobile device and the member Catherine Jones may be the third user associated with the mobile device . In some instances the user interface may also indicate that one or more of the discovered nearby members are existing connections of the first user via the social networking service e.g. Bob and Catherine are existing connections via the SNC. .

Similarly the user interface of the mobile device may inform the second user about the members of the social networking service who are discovered e.g. by the mobile device to be in a proximity to the mobile device by displaying a statement such as Social Networking Service SNC Members Nearby Alice White and Catherine Jones. The member Alice White may be the first user associated with the mobile device and the member Catherine Jones may be the third user associated with the mobile device . In some instances the user interface may also indicate that one or more of the discovered nearby members are existing connections of the first user via the social networking service e.g. Alice is an existing connection via the SNC. . The mobile device may generate and display a further message such as Would you like to connect to Catherine via the SNC via the user interface . The mobile device may receive input from the second user via the user interface in response to the further message displayed to the second user. For example the second user e.g. the member Bob Smith may provide a command to send an invitation to connect to the member Catherine Jones e.g. the third user by selecting e.g. clicking on the further message displayed in the user interface .

Similarly the user interface of the mobile device may inform the third user about the members of the social networking service who are discovered e.g. by the mobile device to be in a proximity to the mobile device by displaying a statement such as Social Networking Service SNC Members Nearby Alice White and Bob Smith. The member Alice White may be the first user associated with the mobile device and the member Bob Smith may be the third user associated with the mobile device . In some instances the user interface may also indicate that one or more of the discovered nearby members are existing connections of the first user via the social networking service e.g. Alice is an existing connection via the SNC. . The mobile device may generate and display a further message such as Would you like to connect to Bob via the SNC via the user interface . The mobile device may receive input from the second user via the user interface in response to the further message displayed to the second user. For example the third user e.g. the member Catherine Jones may provide a command to send an invitation to connect to the member Bob Smith e.g. the second user by selecting e.g. clicking on the further message displayed in the user interface .

In certain example embodiments one or more of the mobile devices illustrated in may be clients in a client server system. One or more of the mobile devices and may transmit and receive communications to and from a server associated with the social networking service. For example the mobile device may send a request for information about one of the users associated with the other mobile devices e.g. the social networking service member associated with the mobile device or the social networking service member the mobile device .

For example as shown in the user interface lists Alice Green Bob Smith and Catherine Jones as being nearby. In some instances the group of members present nearby are determined by the mobile device to be attendees at an event e.g. the attendees present at a scheduled marketing meeting . The determining may be based on calendar data pertaining to the member associated with the mobile device . Of these members Bob Smith and Catherine Jones are identified as first degree connections of the member associated with the mobile device . Because Alice Green is determined to not be a social networking service connection of the member associated with the mobile device the mobile device prompts the member associated with the mobile device to connect with Alice Green via the social networking service by displaying a Connect button in the user interface .

As shown in at time the user interface of the mobile device also displays a number of identifiers of members of the social networking service who are scheduled to attend a marketing meeting but who are not yet present. For example the user interface lists Dave Palmer and Erin O Connor as scheduled attendees for the marketing meeting. Because Dave Palmer is determined to not be a social networking service connection of the member associated with the mobile device the mobile device identifies Dave Palmer as not connected e.g. item . Since the mobile device determines Erin O Connor to be a first degree connection of the member associated with the mobile device the identifier Erin O Connor is listed as a first degree connection e.g. item .

As shown in at a later time the user interface of the mobile device is updated to list Dave Palmer as present nearby e.g. at the scheduled event . In some instances the user interface is updated when a new mobile device is discovered to be present in a local area. For example when Dave Palmer has joined the scheduled marketing meeting the mobile device determines that the mobile device associated with Dave Palmer is present in the local area associated with the mobile device e.g. Dave Palmer s mobile device has joined the ad hoc wireless peer to peer network and updates the user interface to reflect Dave Palmer s joining the marketing meeting.

The mobile device may also determine that Dave Palmer is not connected with the user of the mobile device via the social networking service. The mobile device may prompt at the time the user of the device to connect with Dave Palmer by displaying a Connect button in the user interface .

In some example embodiments by selecting e.g. clicking on one or more of the identifiers of one or more members presented in the user interface of the mobile device the user of the mobile device may request the display of additional information pertaining to the one or more members. For example in response to the user of the mobile device clicking on the Alice Green identifier in the user interface at the time or the time the mobile device may access the member profile information of Alice Green and may display Alice Green s member profile in a user interface of the mobile device . In some example embodiments the member profile information of Alice Green may be received from the mobile device associated with Alice Green via the wireless ad hoc peer to peer network that includes the mobile device and the mobile device associated with Alice Green.

In some example embodiments before displaying an identifier of a particular member associated with a particular mobile device discovered in a local area in the user interface the mobile device determines a received signal strength indicator RSSI value associated with a radio signal received from the particular mobile device. If the mobile device determines the RSSI value to not exceed a proximity threshold value then the identifier of the particular member associated with the particular mobile device is displayed as a nearby member in the user interface . In some instances identifiers of users of mobile devices determined to be too far from the mobile device e.g. in a next room are not displayed to the user of the mobile device .

An example method and system for facilitating the establishing of an ad hoc peer to peer network of mobile devices associated with members of a social networking service and the establishing of social networking service connections between the members of the social networking service via the ad hoc peer to peer network of mobile devices may be implemented in the context of the client server system illustrated in . As shown in the social networking system is generally based on a three tiered architecture consisting of a front end layer application logic layer and data layer. As is understood by skilled artisans in the relevant computer and Internet related arts each module or engine shown in represents a set of executable software instructions and the corresponding hardware e.g. memory and processor for executing the instructions. To avoid obscuring the inventive subject matter with unnecessary detail various functional modules and engines that are not germane to conveying an understanding of the inventive subject matter have been omitted from . However a skilled artisan will readily recognize that various additional functional modules and engines may be used with a social networking system such as that illustrated in to facilitate additional functionality that is not specifically described herein. Furthermore the various functional modules and engines depicted in may reside on a single server computer or may be distributed across several server computers in various arrangements. Moreover although depicted in as a three tiered architecture the inventive subject matter is by no means limited to such architecture.

As shown in the front end layer consists of a user interface module s e.g. a web server which receives requests from various client computing devices including one or more client device s and communicates appropriate responses to the requesting device. For example the user interface module s may receive requests in the form of Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP requests or other web based application programming interface API requests. The client device s may be executing conventional web browser applications and or applications also referred to as apps that have been developed for a specific platform to include any of a wide variety of mobile computing devices and mobile specific operating systems e.g. iOS Android Windows Phone .

For example client device s may be executing client application s . The client application s may provide functionality to present information to a user and to participate in establishing wireless peer to peer networks with other client application s executed on other client device s . The client application s may also provide functionality to communicate via the network to exchange information with the social networking system or with other client application s executed on other client device s . Each of the client devices may comprise a computing device that includes at least a display and communication capabilities with the network to access the social networking system or other client device s . The client devices may comprise but are not limited to remote devices work stations computers general purpose computers Internet appliances hand held devices wireless devices mobile devices portable devices wearable computers cellular or mobile phones personal digital assistants PDAs smart phones tablets ultrabooks netbooks laptops desktops multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics game consoles set top boxes network PCs mini computers wearable devices e.g. head mounted displays smart watches and the like. One or more users may be a person a machine or other means of interacting with the client device s . The user s may interact with the social networking system or with other user s via the client device s . The user s may not be part of the networked environment but may be associated with client device s .

As shown in the data layer includes several databases including a database for storing data for various entities of a social graph. In some example embodiments a social graph is a mechanism used by an online social network service e.g. provided by the social networking system for defining and memorializing in a digital format relationships between different entities e.g. people employers educational institutions organizations groups etc. . Frequently a social graph is a digital representation of real world relationships. Social graphs may be digital representations of online communities to which a user belongs often including the members of such communities e.g. a family a group of friends alums of a university employees of a company members of a professional association etc. . The data for various entities of the social graph may include member profiles company profiles educational institution profiles as well as information concerning various online or offline groups. Of course with various alternative embodiments any number of other entities may be included in the social graph and as such various other databases may be used to store data corresponding to other entities.

Consistent with some embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of the social networking service the person is prompted to provide some personal information such as the person s name age e.g. birth date gender interests contact information home town address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors etc. current job title job description industry employment history skills professional organizations interests and so on. This information is stored for example as profile data in the database .

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social networking service. A connection may specify a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some embodiments a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some embodiments does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member connects with or follows another member the member who is connected to or following the other member may receive messages or updates e.g. content items in his or her personalized content stream about various activities undertaken by the other member. More specifically the messages or updates presented in the content stream may be authored and or published or shared by the other member or may be automatically generated based on some activity or event involving the other member. In addition to following another member a member may elect to follow a company a topic a conversation a web page or some other entity or object which may or may not be included in the social graph maintained by the social networking system. With some embodiments because the content selection algorithm selects content relating to or associated with the particular entities that a member is connected with or is following as a member connects with and or follows other entities the universe of available content items for presentation to the member in his or her content stream increases. As members interact with various applications items of content and user interfaces of the social networking system information relating to the member s activity and behavior e.g. data pertaining to the member selecting or clicking on an online ad may be stored in a database such as database .

The social networking system may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some embodiments the social networking system may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. With some embodiments members of the social networking system may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some embodiments members may subscribe to or join groups affiliated with one or more companies. For instance with some embodiments members of the social network service may indicate an affiliation with a company at which they are employed such that news and events pertaining to the company are automatically communicated to the members in their personalized activity or content streams. With some embodiments members may be allowed to subscribe to receive information concerning companies other than the company with which they are employed. Membership in a group a subscription or following relationship with a company or group as well as an employment relationship with a company are all examples of different types of relationships that may exist between different entities as defined by the social graph and modeled with social graph data of database . The social graph data may be stored in the database in one or more graph data structures. The graph data structures may utilize nodes e.g. for entities edges e.g. for connections or relationships between entities and properties to represent and store the data pertaining to different types of relationships that may exist between different entities.

The application logic layer includes various application server module s which in conjunction with the user interface module s generates various user interfaces with data retrieved from various data sources or data services in the data layer. With some embodiments individual application server modules are used to implement the functionality associated with various applications services and features of the social networking system . For instance a messaging application such as an email application an instant messaging application or some hybrid or variation of the two may be implemented with one or more application server modules . A photo sharing application may be implemented with one or more application server modules . A search engine that searches for items of content pertaining to users of the client device s based on queries received from other client device s may be implemented with one or more application server modules . Similarly the search engine may enable users to search for and browse member profiles. Of course other applications and services may be separately embodied in their own application server modules . As illustrated in social networking system may include the interaction support system which is described in more detail below.

Additionally a third party application s executing on a third party server s is shown as being communicatively coupled to the social networking system and the client device s . The third party server s may support one or more features or functions on a website hosted by the third party.

Any one or more of the modules described herein may be implemented using hardware e.g. one or more processors of a machine or a combination of hardware and software. For example any module described herein may configure a processor e.g. among one or more processors of a machine to perform the operations described herein for that module. In some example embodiments any one or more of the modules described herein may comprise one or more hardware processors and may be configured to perform the operations described herein. In certain example embodiments one or more hardware processors are configured to include any one or more of the modules described herein.

Moreover any two or more of these modules may be combined into a single module and the functions described herein for a single module may be subdivided among multiple modules. Furthermore according to various example embodiments modules described herein as being implemented within a single machine database or device may be distributed across multiple machines databases or devices. The multiple machines databases or devices are communicatively coupled to enable communications between the multiple machines databases or devices. The modules themselves are communicatively coupled e.g. via appropriate interfaces to each other and to various data sources so as to allow information to be passed between the applications so as to allow the applications to share and access common data. Furthermore the modules may access one or more databases e.g. the database the database or the database .

At method operation the mobile device communication module at a first mobile device receives a first communication from a second mobile device. The first mobile device may be associated with a first member identifier of a first member of a social networking service. The first mobile device may receive the first communication via a transceiver of the first mobile device. The first communication may reference e.g. include a second member identifier of a second member of the social networking service. The second member identifier may be associated with the second mobile device. The first communication may be broadcast e.g. advertised by the second mobile device and may indicate that the second mobile device is available to establish one or more wireless peer to peer connections between the second mobile device and one or more other mobile devices. In some example embodiments the first communication may include a request to establish the wireless peer to peer connection with the second mobile device.

At method operation the mobile device communication module at the first mobile device broadcasts a second communication to the one or more other mobile devices including the second mobile device. The broadcasting of the second communication may be performed via the transceiver of the first mobile device. The broadcasting of the second communication may be performed by the first mobile device before during or after the broadcasting of the first communication by the second mobile device. The second communication may include the first member identifier of the first member of the social networking service. The second communication may indicate that the first mobile device is available to establish one or more wireless peer to peer connections between the first mobile device and the one or more other mobile devices including the second mobile device.

At method operation the social networking module at the first mobile device determines that the second member is one of a plurality of members of the social networking service. The determining that that the second member is one of a plurality of members of the social networking service may be based on the second member identifier advertised in the communication received from the second mobile device. The determining may be performed in response to the receiving of the first communication.

At method operation the mobile device connecting module at the first mobile device facilitates an establishing of the wireless peer to peer connection with the second mobile device based on the determining that that the second member is one of the plurality of members of the social networking service. In some example embodiments the facilitating of the establishing of the wireless peer to peer connection includes transmitting an acceptance of a request from the second mobile device to establish the wireless peer to peer connection with the second mobile device. The acceptance may be included in a third communication sent to the second mobile device by the first mobile device.

In some example embodiments the display module displays in a user interface of the first mobile device one or more member identifiers to indicate one or more established wireless peer to peer connections between the first mobile device and other mobile devices. The one or more established wireless peer to peer connections may include the wireless peer to peer connection with the second mobile device. The displaying of the second member identifier may represent the wireless peer to peer connection with the second mobile device.

In various example embodiments the social networking module determines based on the second member identifier that the second member is not a first degree connection of the first member within the social graph associated with the first member. The social networking module may also determine that a third member identifier associated with a third member of the social networking service and referenced in a third communication received from a third mobile device is a first degree connection of the first member within the social graph associated with the first member. The display module may indicate in the user interface of the first mobile device that the second member of the social networking service is not a first degree connection within the social graph associated with the first member. The display module may also indicate in the user interface of the first mobile device that the third member of the social networking service is a first degree connection within the social graph associated with the first member.

Consistent with various example embodiments the mobile device communication module receives a third communication from a third mobile device via the transceiver of the first mobile device. The third communication may include a third member identifier of a third member of the social networking service. The third member identifier may be associated with the third mobile device. The third communication may be broadcast by the third mobile device and may indicate that the third mobile device is available to establish one or more wireless peer to peer connections between the third mobile device and one or more other mobile devices.

In response to the receiving of the third communication the social networking module may determine based on the third member identifier that the third member is one of a plurality of members of the social networking service. The mobile device connecting module may in some instances facilitate the third mobile device joining the wireless peer to peer connection established between the first and second mobile devices based on the determining that that the third member is one of the plurality of members of the social networking service. In other instances the mobile device connecting module may facilitate an establishing of a further wireless peer to peer connection with the third mobile device based on the determining that that the third member is one of the plurality of members of the social networking service.

In some example embodiments the display module displays a number of member identifiers including the second member identifier and the third member identifier in a user interface of the first mobile device. The second member identifier and the third member identifier may identify the second mobile device and the third mobile device as being wirelessly connected to the first mobile device via one or more wireless peer to peer connections. The mobile device connecting module may determine that the second mobile device has interrupted the wireless peer to peer connection with the first mobile device. The display module may update the member identifiers displayed in the user interface of the first mobile device based on the determining that the second mobile device has interrupted the wireless peer to peer connection with the first mobile device. Further details with respect to the method operations of the method are described below with respect to .

As shown in the method may include one or more of method operations and according to some example embodiments. Method operation may be performed as part e.g. a precursor task a subroutine or a portion of method operation in which the mobile device connecting module at the first mobile device facilitates an establishing of the wireless peer to peer connection with the second mobile device based on the determining that that the second member is one of the plurality of members of the social networking service. At method operation the mobile device connecting module receives a third communication from the second mobile device. The third communication may include a request to establish the wireless peer to peer connection with the second mobile device.

Method operation may be performed after method operation . At method operation the mobile device connecting module transmits a fourth communication to the second mobile device the fourth communication including an acceptance of the request to establish the wireless peer to peer connection with the second mobile device.

As shown in the method may include one or more of method operations and according to some example embodiments. Method operation may be performed after method operation in which the mobile device connecting module receives a third communication from the second mobile device the third communication including a request to establish the wireless peer to peer connection with the second mobile device. At method operation the social networking module maps the second member identifier to a name of the second member.

Method operation may be performed after method operation . At method operation the display module displays the request to establish the wireless peer to peer connection to the first member via a user interface of the first mobile device. The request to establish the wireless peer to peer connection may reference the name of the second member and may identify the second member as one of the plurality of the members of the social networking service. For example the social networking module the user interface may generate and the display module may display the following message in the user interface of the first mobile device You have received a request to connect with the mobile device of user B. User B is a member of the Social Networking Service. 

Method operation may be performed after method operation as part e.g. a precursor task a subroutine or a portion of method operation in which the mobile device connecting module transmits a fourth communication to the second mobile device the fourth communication including an acceptance of the request to establish the wireless peer to peer connection with the second mobile device. At method operation the acceptance of the request to establish the wireless peer to peer connection is received from the first member via the user interface of the first mobile device.

As shown in the method may include one or more of method operations and according to some example embodiments. Method operation may be performed after method operation in which the mobile device connecting module at the first mobile device facilitates an establishing of the wireless peer to peer connection with the second mobile device based on the determining that that the second member is one of the plurality of members of the social networking service.

At method operation the mobile device communication module transmits via the transceiver of the first mobile device a third communication to the second mobile device based on the determination that the second member is one of the plurality of members of the social networking service. The third communication may include a request for an item of content pertaining to the second member.

Method operation may be performed after method operation . At method operation the mobile device communication module receives a fourth communication from the second mobile device via the transceiver of the first mobile device. The fourth communication may be received in response to the third communication. The fourth communication may include the item of content pertaining to the second member. The item of content pertaining to the second member may be for example the name of the second member the member profile of the second member etc.

In some example embodiments the second mobile device in response to the request for the item of content pertaining to the second member selects an item of content pertaining to the second member. The selecting may include accessing a calendar of the second member identifying a present context pertaining to the second member based on the calendar of the second member identifying data relevant to the present context pertaining to the second member and generating the item of content based on the data relevant to the present context pertaining to the second member.

In some example embodiments the third communication to the second mobile device includes authentication data associated with the first member. The authentication data associated with the first member may be provided by the security module . The authentication data may authenticate the first member as another of the plurality of members of the social networking service. The request for the item of content pertaining to the second member may reference the authentication data associated with the first member.

In some example embodiments the first member is associated with a first social graph that represents one or more connections of the first member with other members of the social networking service via the social networking service. The second member is associated with a second social graph that represents one or more connections of the second member with other members of the social networking service via the social networking service. A member of the social networking service may find it desirable to be able to communicate or connect via the social networking service with other member of the social networking service when the mobile device of the member discovers that other members of the social networking service are in a proximity to the member.

As shown in the method may include one or more of method operations and according to some example embodiments. Method operation may be performed after method operation in which in which the mobile device connecting module at the first mobile device facilitates an establishing of the wireless peer to peer connection with the second mobile device based on the determining that that the second member is one of the plurality of members of the social networking service. At method operation the social networking module determines that the second member is not a first degree connection of the first member within the first social graph associated with the first member. The determining that the second member is not a first degree connection of the first member may be based on the first social graph associated with the first member.

Method operation may be performed after method operation . At method operation the member connecting module generates a message for the first member. The message may pertain to establishing a connection between the first member and the second member via the social networking service.

Method operation may be performed after method operation . At method operation the display module displays the message for the first member in a user interface of the first mobile device. The first mobile device may be associated with the first member.

As shown in the method may include one or more of method operations and according to some example embodiments. Method operation may be performed after method operation in which the social networking module determines that the second member is not a first degree connection of the first member within the first social graph associated with the first member. At method operation the proximity module determines that the second mobile device is located within a particular distance from the first mobile device.

Method operation may be performed as part e.g. a precursor task a subroutine or a portion of method operation in which the social networking module generates a message for the first member. At method operation the social networking module generates the message for the first member based on the determining that second mobile device is located within the particular distance from the first mobile device.

As shown in the method may include one or more of method operations and according to some example embodiments. Method operation may be performed after method operation in which the mobile device connecting module at the first mobile device facilitates an establishing of the wireless peer to peer connection with the second mobile device based on the determining that that the second member is one of the plurality of members of the social networking service.

At method operation the display module receives an input from the first member. In some instances the input may be received via a user interface of the first mobile device. The input may be audio visual textual tactile etc. The input may indicate a request to establish the connection between the first member and the second member via the social networking service. In some example embodiments the input may be received from the first user in response to the displaying of a prompt e.g. a message for the first member to connect with the second member via the social networking service.

Method operation may be performed after method operation . At method operation the member connecting module in response to receiving the input from the first member generates an invitation for the second member to connect with the first member via the social networking service.

Method operation may be performed after method operation . At method operation the mobile device communication module transmits a third communication to the second mobile device via the wireless peer to peer connection established between the first and second mobile devices. The second mobile device may be associated with the second member. The third communication may include the invitation for the second member to connect with the first member via the social networking service.

As shown in the method may include one or more of method operations and according to some example embodiments. Method operation may be performed after method operation in which the mobile device communication module transmits a third communication to the second mobile device via the wireless peer to peer connection established between the first and second mobile devices. At method operation the mobile device communication module in response to the third communication receives a fourth communication from the second device. The fourth communication may include an acceptance by the second member of the invitation for the second member to connect with the first member via the social networking service.

Method operation may be performed after method operation . At method operation the member connecting module adds a new edge between a first node representing the first member in the first social graph associated with the first member and a second node representing the second member in the first social graph associated with the first member. The adding of the new edge in the first social graph associated with the first member may be based on the acceptance by the second member of the invitation to connect with the first member via the social networking service. The new edge may indicate that the second member is a new connection of the first member in the first social graph associated with the first member.

Similarly at the second mobile device one or more modules associated with the second mobile device may add another new edge between a third node representing the second member in the second social graph associated with the second member and a fourth node representing the first member in the second social graph associated with the second member. The adding of the other new edge in the second social graph associated with the second member may be based on the acceptance by the second member of the invitation to connect with the first member via the social networking service. The other new edge may indicate that the first member is a new connection of the second member in the second social graph associated with the second member.

As shown in the method may include one or more of method operations and according to some example embodiments. Method operation may be performed after method operation in which the in which the mobile device connecting module at the first mobile device facilitates an establishing of the wireless peer to peer connection with the second mobile device based on the determining that that the second member is one of the plurality of members of the social networking service.

At method operation the mobile device communication module transmits a third communication to a server associated with the social networking service. The third communication may reference the second member identifier. The third communication may include a query e.g. a request for information pertaining to the second member.

Method operation may be performed after method operation . At method operation the mobile device communication module in response to the third communication receives a fourth communication from the server. The fourth communication may include a reason to connect to the second member via the social networking service. The reason may be identified by the server based on an analysis of at least the profile data of the second member.

Method operation may be performed after method operation . At method operation the display module displays the reason to connect to the second member via the social networking service in a user interface of the first mobile device.

In some example embodiments the mobile device communication module transmits a third communication to a server associated with the social networking service. The third communication may include a request for information pertaining to the second member. In response to the third communication the mobile device communication module may receive a fourth communication including a member profile of the second member. The display module may display the member profile of the second member in a user interface of the first mobile device.

At method operation the server receives a first communication from a first mobile devices associated with a first member identifier of a first member of the social networking service. The first communication may reference a second member identifier of a second member of the social networking service. The second member identifier may be associated with a second mobile device discovered by the first mobile device within a particular distance from the first mobile devices.

At method operation the server selects an item of content that pertains to the second members based on the second member identifier. At method operation the server in response to receiving the first communication transmits a second communication including the item of content that pertains to the second member to the first mobile device.

In some example embodiments the selecting of the item of content that pertains to the second member includes accessing a calendar of the second member identifying a present context pertaining to the second member based on the calendar of the second member identifying data relevant to the present context pertaining to the second member and generating an item of content based on the data relevant to the present context pertaining to the second member.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied 1 on a non transitory machine readable medium or 2 in a transmission signal or hardware implemented modules. A hardware implemented module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware implemented module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware implemented module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware implemented module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware implemented module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware implemented module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware implemented module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily or transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware implemented modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware implemented modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware implemented modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware implemented modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware implemented module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware implemented module at a different instance of time.

Hardware implemented modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware implemented modules. Accordingly the described hardware implemented modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware implemented modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware implemented modules . In embodiments in which multiple hardware implemented modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware implemented modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware implemented modules have access. For example one hardware implemented module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware implemented module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware implemented modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors or processor implemented modules not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs . 

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

In alternative embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server machine or a client machine in a server client network environment or as a peer machine in a distributed e.g. peer to peer network environment. The machine may be a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet computer a laptop computer a netbook a cellular telephone a smartphone a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a web appliance a network router a network switch a network bridge or any machine capable of executing the instructions sequentially or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute the instructions to perform all or part of any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The machine includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a radio frequency integrated circuit RFIC or any suitable combination thereof a main memory and a static memory which are configured to communicate with each other via a bus . The processor may contain microcircuits that are configurable temporarily or permanently by some or all of the instructions such that the processor is configurable to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein in whole or in part. For example a set of one or more microcircuits of the processor may be configurable to execute one or more modules e.g. software modules described herein.

The machine may further include a graphics display e.g. a plasma display panel PDP a light emitting diode LED display a liquid crystal display LCD a projector a cathode ray tube CRT or any other display capable of displaying graphics or video . The machine may also include an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard or keypad a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a touchpad a trackball a joystick a motion sensor an eye tracking device or other pointing instrument a storage unit an audio generation device e.g. a sound card an amplifier a speaker a headphone jack or any suitable combination thereof and a network interface device .

The storage unit includes the machine readable medium e.g. a tangible and non transitory machine readable storage medium on which are stored the instructions embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory within the processor e.g. within the processor s cache memory or both before or during execution thereof by the machine . Accordingly the main memory and the processor may be considered machine readable media e.g. tangible and non transitory machine readable media . The instructions may be transmitted or received over the network via the network interface device . For example the network interface device may communicate the instructions using any one or more transfer protocols e.g. hypertext transfer protocol HTTP .

In some example embodiments the machine may be a portable computing device such as a smart phone or tablet computer and have one or more additional input components e.g. sensors or gauges . Examples of such input components include an image input component e.g. one or more cameras an audio input component e.g. a microphone a direction input component e.g. a compass a location input component e.g. a global positioning system GPS receiver an orientation component e.g. a gyroscope a motion detection component e.g. one or more accelerometers an altitude detection component e.g. an altimeter and a gas detection component e.g. a gas sensor . Inputs harvested by any one or more of these input components may be accessible and available for use by any of the modules described herein.

As used herein the term memory refers to a machine readable medium able to store data temporarily or permanently and may be taken to include but not be limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM buffer memory flash memory and cache memory. While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium or combination of multiple media that is capable of storing the instructions for execution by the machine such that the instructions when executed by one or more processors of the machine e.g. processor cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein in whole or in part. Accordingly a machine readable medium refers to a single storage apparatus or device as well as cloud based storage systems or storage networks that include multiple storage apparatus or devices. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to one or more tangible e.g. non transitory data repositories in the form of a solid state memory an optical medium a magnetic medium or any suitable combination thereof.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute software modules e.g. code stored or otherwise embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission medium hardware modules or any suitable combination thereof. A hardware module is a tangible e.g. non transitory unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain physical manner. In various example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone computer system a client computer system or a server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In some embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically electronically or any suitable combination thereof. For example a hardware module may include dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may be a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an ASIC. A hardware module may also include programmable logic or circuitry that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. For example a hardware module may include software encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the phrase hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity and such a tangible entity may be physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. As used herein hardware implemented module refers to a hardware module. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where a hardware module comprises a general purpose processor configured by software to become a special purpose processor the general purpose processor may be configured as respectively different special purpose processors e.g. comprising different hardware modules at different times. Software e.g. a software module may accordingly configure one or more processors for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses between or among two or more of the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The performance of certain operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of the subject matter discussed herein may be presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . Such algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or any suitable combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information. Furthermore unless specifically stated otherwise the terms a or an are herein used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one instance. Finally as used herein the conjunction or refers to a non exclusive or unless specifically stated otherwise.

