---

title: Stabalized glycosaminoglycan preparations and related methods
abstract: Compositions comprising a glycosaminoglycan (e.g., a hyaluronan, hyaluronic acid, hyaluronate, sodium hyaluronate, dermatan sulfate, karatan sulfate, chondroitin 6-sulfate, heparin, etc.) in combination with at least one component selected from; i) polyglycols (e.g., polyethylene glycol), ii) long chain hydroxy polyanionic polysaccharides (e.g., dextran, sodium alginate, alginic acid, propylene glycol alginate, carboxymethyl cellulose and carboxyethyl cellulose, hydroxyl ethyl starch, hydroxyl propyl methyl cellulose, hydroxy propyl ethyl cellulose, hydroxy propyl cellulose, methyl cellulose, polylysine, polyhistidine, polyhydroxy proline, poly ornithine, polyvinyl pyrolidone, polyvinyl alcohol, chitosan, etc.) and iii) long chain Nitrogen containing polymers (e.g., Polylysine, Polyvinylpyrrolidone, and polyvinyl alcohol). The invention also includes methods for using such compositions (e.g., as substance delivery materials, tissue fillers or bulking agents, as moistening or hydrating agents, etc.)
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09511088&OS=09511088&RS=09511088
owner: S.K. Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
number: 09511088
owner_city: San Juan Capistrano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140414
---
This application is a continuation of copending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 648 037 filed Oct. 9 2012 and issuing as U.S. Pat. No. 8 697 671 on Apr. 15 2014 which is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 940 171 filed Nov. 14 2007 and issuing on Oct. 16 2012 as U.S. Pat. No. 8 288 362 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 126 075 filed May 9 2005 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 544 671 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 569 407 filed on May 7 2004 the entire disclosures of each such earlier filed application being expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to the fields of chemistry pharmaceutical formulation and medicine and more particularly to stabilized glycosaminoglycan compositions and their methods of manufacture and use.

Hyaluronan is part of a group of polysaccharides known as glycosaminoglycans. In particular hyaluronan is a mucopolysaccharide that occurs naturally in the bodies of humans and other animals. The term hyaluronan encompasses hyaluronic acid as well as salts of hyaluronic acid such as sodium hyaluronate. The term hyaluronate refers to the conjugate base of hyaluronic acid. Hyaluronan is the polyanionic form of hyaluronic acid which exists in vivo.

In general glycosaminoglycans are made up of repeating disaccharide units containing a derivative of an aminosugar. The repeating disaccharide unit of hyaluronan consists of alternating glucuronic acid and N acetylglucosamine units which are repeated over and over to form long chains. Each repeating disaccharide unit has one carboxylate group four hydroxyl groups and an acetamido group. Hyaluronan differs from the other major glycosaminoglycans in that it does not have sulfate groups. The chemical structure of hyaluronan is as follows 

Hyaluronan in the extracellular matrix of various body tissues. In normal physiological states hyaluronan molecules form random coils in the nature of helical ribbons that are stiffened by hydrogen bonds and solvent interactions. The axial hydrogen atoms are relatively non polar while the equatorial side chains are relatively polar thereby creating the twisting ribbon structure.

Hyaluronan is synthesized in the body by many types of cells and tends to collect in extracellular spaces where acts as a scaffold for aggrecan self assembly thereby combining with other constituents to form supportive or protective networks around the cells. Hyaluronan is present in many body fluids and tissues and is found in relatively high concentrations in vitreous humor and synovial fluid.

Hyaluronan is highly lubricious hydrophilic and exhibits unique rheological properties. The unique rheology of hyaluronan is believed to be due at least in part to the fact that the hyaluronan polymer coils become entangled with each other at low concentrations and exhibit shear dependent viscosity at high concentrations. For example a 1 solution of hyaluronan may exist as a gelatinous mass under ambient conditions but when compressed will become less viscous and easily flowable such that it may be injected through a hypodermic needle. Because of this unique rheological behavior hyaluronan has been referred to as a pseudo plastic material. The hydrophilic nature of hyaluronan is believed to be a function of the fact that hyaluronan forms stiffened helical ribbons as described above. Each such helical ribbon is configured such that it may trap substantial amounts of water e.g. approximately 1000 times its weight in water .

Hyaluronan has a wide variety of medical and non medical applications. For example hyaluronan solutions make excellent lubricants and may allow tissue surfaces to slide over one another. Thus hyaluronan preparations are sometimes applied to tissues to promote healing and or to reduce the potential for postoperative adhesion formation. One of its important biological roles is to provide beneficial effects on wound healing in the skin and eyes.

Recently hyaluronan has been found to enhance corneal epithelial healing and corneal reepithelialization for non infectious corneal erosion. These beneficial effects can be extended to the management of dry eye syndrome allergic conjunctivitis and contact lens wear.

For example dry eye is a syndrome in which inadequate tear production and inappropriate tear composition causes the cornea and conjunctiva improper wetting. Untreated dry eye can be further deteriorated to produce more severe epithelial erosion strands of epithelial cells dry spots on the cornea. These can be complicated further by microbial infection. Thus an early medical management for the dry eye syndrome would be highly desirable. Such an early treatment of the dryness and irritation of the eye by the use of hyaluronan could be very effective and beneficial medical management of the dry eye.

Additionally it has been known for a long time that contact lenses which have adsorption of cellular debris mucus materials lipids and proteins from the eye can cause irritation and or infection of the eye. Thus a biocompatible lubricant particularly hyaluronan can provide beneficial effects to prevent the deposit from forming in its early stage of deposit formation on the contact lenses in the eye.

As indicated above beneficial effects of hyaluronan for the health of the eye are great however use of hyaluronan has been rather limited due to its chemical instability losing its viscosity and lubricity in aqueous solution.

The prior art has included a number of stabilized hyaluronic acid gels useable for cosmetic tissue bulking. For example RESTALYNE Injectable Gel Medicis Pharmaceutical Corporation Scottsdale Ariz. is a sterile gel of stabilized sodium hyaluronate. Also PERLANE injectable gel Medicis Pharmaceutical Corporation Scottsdale Ariz. is a sterile gel of hyaluronic acid chemically cross linked with BDDE stabilized and suspended in phosphate buffered saline at pH 7 and concentration of 20 mg mL.

Additionally the prior art has included a number of hyaluronic acid containing viscoelastic preparations used in cataract surgery. For example VISCOAT viscoelastic solution Alcon contains purified medium molecular weight sodium chondroitin sulfate and sodium hyaluronate formulated to a viscosity of 40 000 20 000 cps at shear rate of 2 sec 25 C. VISCOAT viscoelastic solution is relatively unstable at room temperature and its manufacturer recommends that it be stored at 2 8 C. 36 46 F. and warmed to room temperature just prior to use. Also the ProVisc viscoelastic solution is a cohesive viscoelastic containing a high molecular weight non inflammatory highly purified fraction of sodium hyaluronate dissolved in physiological sodium chloride phosphate buffer. It is also relatively unstable at room temperature and its manufacturer recommends that it be stored at 2 8 C. 36 46 F. and warmed to room temperature just prior to use. The VISCOAT viscoelastic solution and the ProVisc viscoelastic solution are sometimes used and formulated in combination. For example the DisCoVisc Ophthalmic Viscosurgical Device Alcon is product which combines the VISCOAT viscoelastic solution and the ProVisc viscoelastic solution in a single pre filled syringe and the DuoVisc Viscoelastic system Alcon is a product that provides VISCOAT viscoelastic solution and the ProVisc viscoelastic solution in separate pre filled syringes. Like their individual components the DisCoVisc and DuoVisa products must also be stored at 2 8 C. 36 46 F. and warmed to room temperature just prior to use.

There remains a need in the art for the development of new stabilized glycosaminoglycan materials such as hyaluronic acid or salts of hyaluronic acid that are stable when stored at room temperature and which exhibit desirable rheological properties.

The present invention provides compositions that comprise glycosaminoglycans such as hyaluronic acid or another hyaluronan in combination with a stabilizing and or viscosity increasing agent. The present invention also provides methods for using such compositions.

In accordance with the invention there are provided compositions that comprise a glycosaminoglycan e.g. hyaluronic acid or a hyaluronic acid salt in combination with at least one agent selected from the group consisting of i polyglycols e.g. polyethylene glycol ii Hydroxy Polyanionic Polysaccharides e.g. dextran sodium alginate alginic acid propylene glycol alginate carboxymethyl cellulose and carboxyethyl cellulose hydroxyl ethyl starch hydroxyl propyl methyl cellulose hydroxy propyl ethyl cellulose hydroxy propyl cellulose methyl cellulose polylysine polyhistidine polyhydroxy praline poly ornithine polyvinyl pyrolidone polyvinyl alcohol chitosan etc. and iii long chain Nitrogen containing polymers e.g. Polylysine Polyvinylpyrrolidone and polyvinyl alcohol . Such compositions may be prepared in aqueous solution having a pH of from about 5.0 to about 9.0 preferably pH 7.0 7.4.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention a hyaluronan such as hyaluronic acid may be combined with at least one polyglycol in a ratio and under conditions which result in the preparation retaining the viscosity and lubricity of the hyaluronan substantially longer than if it had not been combined with the polyglycol. Any suitable hyaluronan like hyaluronic acid sodium salt and any suitable polyglycol like polyethylene glycol including long chain hydroxy polyanionic polysaccharides eg. sodium alginate alginic acid propylene glycol alginate carboxymethyl cellulose carboxyethyl cellulose etc. but not polyanionic polysaccharides eg. Dextran sulfates long chain nitrogen containing polymers eg. polylysine polyhistidine polyhydroxy proline polyornithine polyvinylpyrrolidone etc. hydroxy polysaccharides eg. hydroxyethyl starch dextran hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose Hydroxy Propyl Cellulose Methyl Cellulose etc. nitrogen containing hydroxy polysaccharides eg. Chitosan etc. and polyhydroxy linear polymers eg. polyvinyl alcohol polyhydroxy proline etc. may be used particularly the long chain hydroxy polyanionic polysaccharides are not only stabilizing the hyaluronan but also increasing viscosity and lubricity of the hyaluronan synergistically. For example see Example 1. In some cases the preparation may include other active or inactive ingredients or reactants including but not limited to drugs cosmetics preservatives pH adjusting agents tonicity adjusting agents thickening or gelling agents water coloring agents fragrance etc. The stabilized hyaluronan preparations of this invention may be liquid solutions gels creams or any other useable forms. The stabilized hyaluronan preparations of this invention may be used for a variety of medical and non medical e.g. household or industrial applications including topical administration to the eye e.g. to moisturize the eye treat dry eye promote corneal healing facilitate reepithelialization for non infectious corneal erosion management of dry eye syndrome allergic conjunctivitis and contact lens wear etc. topical administration e.g. to moisturize the skin to treat dry skin or dermatological disorders lubrication or body tissues or body orifices lubrication of devices e.g. catheters scopes instruments etc. application to tissues during surgery to deter post surgical adhesion formation subcutaneous injection for removing wrinkles in addition as vehicles and active drug delivery depot.

Further in accordance with the invention there are provided methods for manufacturing hyaluronan preparations wherein hyaluronan is combined with a polyglycol. The hyaluronan may be combined with the polyglycol in a ratio and under conditions that result in reaction without chemical structural changes e.g. chemical conformational changes via complex formation between the hyaluronan and the polyglycol such that remains stable for an extended period of time e.g. 2 years or more at room temperature.

Further aspects details and embodiments of the present invention will be understood by those of skill in the art upon reading the detailed description and examples set forth herebelow.

The following detailed description is intended to describe some but not necessarily all examples or embodiments of the invention. No effort has been made to exhaustively describe all possible examples and embodiments of the invention. Thus the contents of this detailed description shall not limit the scope of the invention in any way.

In accordance with the present invention there are provided compositions comprising a hyaluronan combined with a polyglycol wherein the properties of the hyaluronan e.g. viscosity and lubricity are maintained for a prolonged period of time. Thus polyglycols may be added to or included in various hyaluronan preparations to prolong the shelf stability and usefulness of such preparations.

A polyglycol is defined as a polyhydric alcohol of a monomeric glycol. Polyethylene Glycols PEGs are a family of linear water soluble polyglycols. PEGs are formed by polymerization of ethylene oxide. The generalized formula for polyethylene glycol is H OCHCH OH where n is the average number of repeating oxyethylene groups.

Using the methods of the present invention hyaluronan can be complexed with a PEG to form hyaluronan preparations that remain stable at room temperature for extended periods of time e.g. 2 years or more without substantial chemical break down of the hyaluronan and resultant change in viscosity and lubricity.

In preparations of the present invention wherein hyaluronan is combined with a polyglycol e.g. PEG the polyglycol may preferably have an average molecular weight in the range of about 200 to about 35 000 and more preferably in at least some applications an average molecular weight in the range of about 6000 to about 8000.

Also in preparations of the present invention wherein hyaluronan is combined with a polyglycol e.g. PEG the hyaluronan may preferably have an average molecular weight in the range of about 2 10to about 5 10and more preferably in at least some applications an average molecular weight in the range of about 2 10 3 10.

Also in preparations of the present invention wherein hyaluronan is combined with a polyglycol e.g. PEG the weight ratio of hyaluronan to polyglycol may be in the range of from about 0.1 1 to about 10 1 and more preferably in at least some applications such weight ratio of hyaluronan to polyglycol may be in the range of from about 1 2 to about 1 10.

Also in preparations of the present invention wherein hyaluronan is combined with a polyglycol e.g. PEG and any other optional components examples of which are set forth in the formulations shown in Examples 1 and 2 below the concentration of hyaluronan in the preparation may be in the range of about 0.01 by weight to about 10 by weight.

Also in preparations of the present invention wherein hyaluronan is combined with a polyglycol e.g. PEG and any other optional components examples of which are set forth in the formulations shown in Examples 1 and 2 below the pH of the preparation may be in the range of from about 5.0 to about 9.5 or more preferably in at least some applications from about 7.0 to about 7.4. Appropriate acidifying and or alkaline e.g. buffering agents may be added in accordance with procedures well known in the art to adjust the pH of the preparation as needed or desired.

Also in preparations of the present invention wherein hyaluronan is combined with a polyglycol e.g. PEG and any other optional components examples of which are set forth in the formulations shown in Examples 1 and 2 below the tonicity of the preparation may preferably be in the range of about 200 mOsm to about 340 mOsm. Hyperosmolar and or hypoosmolar agents e.g. manitol water etc. may be added in accordance with procedures well known in the art to adjust the tonicity of the preparation as needed or desired.

In this example a liquid hyaluronan preparation is prepared by combining and mixing the components of the following formulation at room temperature 

This results in a viscous liquid preparation that is suited for a wide variety of medical or non medical uses including use as a lubricant or moisturizing agent for topical administration to the skin mucous membranes or eyes or as a carrier for cosmetics pharmaceuticals or other agents.

In this example hyaluronan compositions were prepared under ambient room temperature conditions according to Formulations I and II as follows 

Both Formulation 1 and Formulation 2 provide a lubricious liquid solution as described in Example 1 above. However when stored at room temperature the preparation of Formula I looses substantial viscosity and becomes substantially less lubricious within few weeks. In contrast the preparation of Formula II remains stable and does not undergo any substantial change in viscosity or lubricity for at least two 2 years.

Glycosaminoglycans Including Hyaluronic acid are important substances in connective tissues in determining the viscoelastic properties of joints and of other structures that are subject to mechanical deformation. Hyaluronic acid is one of the major glycosaminoglycans that occur in many living substances as synovial fluid. Hyaluronic acid is a major component of the extracellular matrix and contributes to cellular migration and proliferation and neuronal morphogenesis. Hyaluronic acid also acts as a lubricant and shock absorber in joints in the vitreous body of the eye and other parts of the body.

One drawback of administering exogenous hyaluronic acid for therapeutic or other biomedical purposes is that hyaluronic acid degrades very rapidly and consequently loses its viscosity and its lubricity. This limits the many biomedical applications of the hyaluronic acid. Some of the noteworthy therapeutic and other biomedical applications of hyaluronic acid have included its use in tissue grafting catheter lubrication for insertion into human bodies scope and endoscope lubrication skin grafting dermal wound healing cell culture bioengineering and cell bioengineering eye and joint lubrication vitreous humor replacement artificial tears for dry eyes contact lens storage and wear corneal wound healing treatment of allergic conjunctivitis as a viscoelastic agent in cataract surgery as an additive in cosmetics and personal care products as a drug delivery vehicle etc.

Applicants have discovered that hyaluronic acid can also be stabilized with Long chain hydroxy polyanionic polysaccharides e.g. sodium alginate alginic acid propylene glycol alginate carboxymethyl cellulose and carboxyethyl cellulose etc. in an aqueous solution of pH 5.0 9.0. It has been further discovered that the viscosity of the hyaluronic acid HA in aqueous solution at pH 5.0 9.0 can be increased by an order of magnitude or more with the addition of one or more long chain hydroxy polyanionic polysaccharides and such hyaluronic Acid long chain hydroxy polyanionic polysaccharides possess a non Newtonian fluid characteristics shear thinning effects see .

In this example the viscosities of various test samples were measured at shear rates ranging from 1 200 1 sec. The compositions of the test samples were as follows 

Each sample was prepared in a borate buffer solution. The formulation of this borate buffer solution was as follows 

To prepare the buffer 1 g of boric acid 2.9 g of Sodium chloride 0.7 g of potassium chloride 0.1 g of calcium chloride dihydrate and 0.055 g magnesium chloride hexahydrate were dissolved in distilled water. The solution was diluted to 500 mL. The pH of this buffer solution was adjusted to either 5.2 or 7.2 at room temperature as indicated.

To insure samples were thoroughly dissolved and well mixed stock solutions of the polymers in borate buffer were prepared when possible. For hyaluronic acids 2 stock solutions were used. All stock solutions were vortex mixed and then placed on a shaker until clear and homogeneous.

Hyaluronic acid samples 0.15 HA were prepared by diluting approximately 0.75 g of the HA stock solution to 10 g using the borate buffer. Again samples were vortex mixed and placed in a shaker until the solutions were clear and homogeneous.

Viscosity measurements were performed on an AR 1000 rheometer T A Instruments using a cone and plate geometry. The cone was 6 cm in diameter with an angle of 1 degree and a truncation gap of 29 mm. The range of torques applied was adjusted to cover shear rates ranging at minimum from 25 secto 160 sec. Shear rates were first increased and then during the experiment. A new sample was loaded for each experiment.

Also when are viewed in comparison it is apparent that the viscosity enhancing effect of CMC was most pronounced in the sample containing 2 MDa HA Sample K and least pronounced in the sample containing 1 MDa HA Sample G . Thus the viscosity enhancing effect of CMC is greater with higher molecular weight HA.

In the following table the shear thinning grade ratio STG ratio was calculated as the ratio of the viscosity at 160 sec to the viscosity at 40 secat 30 C. pH 5.2. The following table

Pluronic F 127 is a registered trademark of BASF Corporation Florham Park N.J. It is a difunctional block copolymer surfactant terminating in primary hydroxyl groups also known as Poloxamer 407.

As seen in the table above at pH 5.2 the STG ratio is greater when 2 MDa HA is combined CMC or PEG than for 2 MDa HA alone or in combination with a stabilizing amount of Pluronic F127. For example an aqueous gel containing 30 CMC a stabilizer contained in a syringe fitted with a 29 gauge needle cannot be injected through the 29 gauge needle at room temperature or may be forced through that needle only with great difficulty . However the addition of 0.15 g HA 0.15 into the CMC gel makes the gel become much thinner when a mechanical force is applied on it due to the shear thinning effects. Accordingly the HA CMC gel may be injected through the 29 gauge needle easily using a standard syringe and standard injection technique. This shear thinning property of the gel is of great value in preparations that are intended to be injected through needles or otherwise passed through small diameter lumens passageways or openings. Examples of specific applications where these shear thinning effects will be of value will be in glycosaminoglycan gels e.g. HA gels and other preparations intended for use as substance delivery depots carriers or dermal tissue fillers.

Accordingly the hyaluronic acid long chain hydroxy polyanionic polysaccharides system becomes thinner as a mechanical force is applied on it. Thus it can be ideally used as an injectable formulation alone e.g. as a viscoelastic agent or tissue filler bulking agent or may be combined with diagnostic or therapeutic agents e.g. as a drug deliver carrier depot such that the diagnostic or therapeutic agents are then released kinetically.

Glycosaminoglycans like hyaluronic acid are made up of disaccharide repeating units containing a derivative of an amino sugar either glucosamine or galactosamine in which one of the sugars has a negatively charged carboxylate or sulfate. Thus glycosaminoglycans can be stabilized by the long chain hydroxyl polyanionic polysaccharides. Some major glycosaminoglycans are Dermatan Sulfate Karatan Sulfate Chondroitin 6 Sulfate and Heparin.

Glucosaminoglycans like hyaluronic acid are made up of disaccharide repeating units containing a derivative of an amino sugar either glucosamine or galactosamine in which one of the sugars has a negatively charged carboxylate or sulfate group. Thus Aginic acid Polyethylene glycol alginate CMC etc. can also stabilize the glycosaminoglycans.

The term glycosaminoglycan as used herein includes but is not limited to hyaluronans dermatan sulfate keratan sulfate chondroitin 6 sulphate and heparin.

In addition the stabilization of the above mentioned glycosaminoglycans can be performed using Carboxyethyl Cellulose as well as many other Carboxymethyl and Carboxyethyl cellulose compounds.

In summary the combination of hyaluronic acid with a long chain hydroxyl polyanionic polysaccharides e.g. Alginic acid sodium alginate Propylene glycol alginate dextran CMC etc. results in a composition having unique properties including but not limited to 

The invention has been described hereabove with reference to certain examples or embodiments of the invention but that various additions deletions alterations and modifications may be made to those examples and embodiments without departing from the intended spirit and scope of the invention. For example any element or attribute of one embodiment or example may be incorporated into or used with another embodiment or example unless to do so would render the embodiment or example unsuitable for its intended use. All reasonable additions deletions modifications and alterations are to be considered equivalents of the described examples and embodiments and are to be included within the scope of the following claims.

