---

title: Integration of carriers with social networks
abstract: In general, the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods, systems, and program products for receiving, at a server system of a social network and from a telephone service provider, information identifying members of a preferred calling group for a first user that is associated with the telephone provider. The sever system of the social network identifies the first user as a member of the social network. The server system of the social network identifies one or more of the members of the preferred calling group as being one or more members of the social network. The server system of the social network automatically defines a social network group that includes the one or more members of the preferred calling group who are members of the social network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08913723&OS=08913723&RS=08913723
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08913723
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140108
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Patent Application No. 61 426 907 entitled INTEGRATION OF CARRIERS WITH SOCIAL NETWORKS filed Dec. 23 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This application further claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 of and is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 336 922 entitled INTEGRATION OF CARRIERS WITH SOCIAL NETWORKS filed Dec. 23 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This specification generally relates to systems and techniques for integrating information from a social network with operations of a telecommunication carrier that does not operate the social network.

Users of computing devices such as desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers and smartphones are increasingly connecting with those devices. While early personal computers were stand alone devices users eventually equipped the devices with dial up modems for accessing bulletin boards. The bulletin boards enabled for posting and sharing information with each other early social interaction by computer. The internet and World Wide Web provided richer social experiences such as newsgroups electronic mail and web browsing. High speed internet connections allowed people always remain connected and further improved the quality of services that could be offered to users over the internet.

Through the use of web server programming discussion groups and discussion threads have been extended to provide users with the ability to subscribe to secured discussion forums that are in some cases moderated by other users. And as another extension social network applications allow people to voluntarily e.g. and unilaterally or bilaterally define acquaintance relationships with each other as friends or followers of each other s posted messages. Users generally post brief messages about their status mood activities and such and their friends and followers can read and optionally reply to those messages. As such friends may stay abreast of another s activities as a tool for maintaining and improving their social relationships.

This document discusses systems and techniques that may be used to share information between telecommunications carriers such as cellular telephone companies and operators of social networking systems. For example users of a social networking system may define sub groups of their overall group of defined acquaintances in the form of circles . As one example a particular user may define a circle for her family another for her professional network another for old high school friends another for her book club and another for ex boyfriends. The user can define which of her communications are shared with members of which circles and which of her communications are blocked from being shared with members of which circles e.g. ex boyfriends even if they are in other circles . And as described in detail below the user can have a special reduced price calling circle that is defined by her wireless carrier and shared with her social network or vice versa . For example when the user joins the social network or signs up with a new wireless carrier she can give the social network permission to access data from her wireless carrier. The accessed data may identify other users with whom the first user has set up a limited reach free calling plan e.g. the wireless carrier may limit such a group to a certain number of other users and may also limit it only to users who subscribe to the same carrier . Such an action may cause the social network to obtain telephone numbers or other identifiers for the other users to use the identifiers to determine if the other users are members of the social network and to define a circle comprised of those other users e.g. a circle called free telephone group e.g. because it represents the users whom she can call for free under the limited reach free calling plan .

Communication of acquaintance data may also occur in the opposite direction from social network to wireless carrier . Specifically a user may initially define in her social network a free telephone group circle or may add members to and remove members from the free telephone group that was defined as discussed in the previous paragraph. She may then cause the members of the circle to be exported to her wireless carrier. Again identifying information such as cellular telephone numbers obtained from profile pages for the other users may be transmitted to the wireless carrier. The wireless carrier may then add those numbers to a reduced price calling plan for the user thus allowing the user to make unlimited calls to those numbers without additional charge. In certain circumstances the carrier may offer such a plan even where some of the other users are not subscribers of that carrier e.g. the carrier may absorb carrying charges paid to other carriers in such instances .

As additional description to the implementations described below the present disclosure describes the following implementations 

Implementation 1 is a computer implemented method of sharing social information between a social network service and a telephone service provider. The method includes receiving at a server system of a social network and from a telephone service provider information identifying members of a preferred calling group for a first user associated with the telephone provider. The method includes identifying using the server system the first user as a member of the social network. The method includes identifying using the server system one or more of the members of the preferred calling group as being one or more members of the social network. The method includes automatically defining using the server system of the social network a social network group that includes the one or more members of the preferred calling group who are members of the social network.

Implementation 2 is the method of implementation 1 wherein defining the social network group comprises adding the one or more members to a preexisting group.

Implementation 3 is the method of any one of implementations 1 2 wherein the information identifying members of the preferred calling group for the first user comprises telephone numbers for members of the preferred calling group.

Implementation 4 is the method of implementation 3 wherein identifying one or more of the members of the preferred calling group as being members of the social network comprises comparing the received telephone numbers with telephone numbers in profiles of registered members of the social network the telephone numbers in profiles of the registered members being visible in the profile pages to at least one other member of the social network.

Implementation 5 is the method of any one of implementations 1 4 wherein the method further includes receiving from the first user a desired change to membership of the defined social network group. The method further includes sending by the server system of the social network to the telephone service provider an indication of the desired change.

Implementation 6 is the method of any one of implementations 1 5 wherein the method further includes receiving at the server system of the social network and from the first user an indication of a second user to be included in a no contact group. The method further includes sending to the telephone service provider information identifying the second user for special handling of incoming calls from the second user.

Implementation 7 is the method of implementation 6 wherein the method further includes automatically blocking posts submitted by the first user to the server system of the social network from being seen by the second user included in the no contact group.

Implementation 8 is the method of any one of implementations 1 7 wherein the method further includes automatically causing ring tones for a telephone of the first user to correlate to multiple respective social network groups of the first user.

Other implementations include one or more computer readable storage devices storing instructions that when executed by one or more processing devices perform operations according to the above described methods. Other implementations include systems and apparatus that include the described one or more computer readable storage devices and that are configured to execute the operations using one or more processing devices.

Implementation 9 is a computer implemented system for sharing social information between a social network service and a telephone service provider. The system includes a social network server system to implement a social networking service. The social network server system includes a social graph that defines connections between registered users of the social networking service. The social network server system includes a grouping sub system arranged to define sub groups of registered users who have an acquaintance relationship with a first user wherein each sub group is defined based on a relationship that applies to each user in the sub group. The social network server system includes an interface arranged to communicate with a telephone service provider and to send to the telephone service provider an indication of users in a preferred calling sub group so as to cause the telephone service provider to offer the first user preferred services for telephone communications between the first user and the users in the preferred calling sub group.

Implementation 10 is the system of implementation 9 wherein at least one user in the preferred calling sub group is not a subscriber of the telephone service provider and is a subscriber of a different telephone service provider.

Implementation 11 is the system of any one of implementations 9 10 wherein the grouping sub system is arranged to i allow the first user to change membership of the preferred calling subgroup by adding or removing registered users who have an acquaintance relationship with the first user to or from the preferred calling sub group respectively ii receive an identification of a change desired by the first user to the membership of the preferred calling sub group and iii send via the interface and to the telephone service provider an indication of the change.

Implementation 12 is the system of any one of implementation 9 11 wherein the social network server system is programmed to obtain telephone information that is included in profiles for the users of the preferred calling sub group and to send the telephone information to the telephone service provider.

Implementation 13 is the system of any one of implementations 9 12 wherein the grouping sub system is arranged to use telephone numbers that have been received from the telephone service provider to identify those registered users of the social network service who are in a preferred calling plan that is offered to the first user by the telephone service provider and wherein identifying the registered users who are in the preferred calling plan comprises comparing the telephone numbers with telephone numbers in profiles of registered users of the social network service the telephone numbers in the profiles of registered users being visible in profiles of the registered users to at least one other registered user of the social network service.

Implementation 14 is the system of any one of implementations 9 13 wherein the grouping sub system is arranged to manage a no contact sub group defined by the first user and to send via the interface and to the telephone service provider information for causing the telephone service provider to block calls that are to the first user and from one or more users in the no contact sub group.

Implementation 15 is the system of implementation 14 wherein the social network server system further includes a messaging sub system arranged to automatically block posts that are authored by the first user from being presented for display to the one or more users in the no contact sub group.

Implementation 16 is a computer implemented method of sharing social information between a social network service and a telephone service provider. The method includes identifying by a server system of the telephone service provider a first user of the telephone service provider and one or more other users of the telephone service provider who are members of a preferred calling plan that is provided for the first user by the telephone service provider. The method includes obtaining by the server system of the telephone service provider information that identifies the first user and the one or more other users. The method includes providing the obtained information to a social network server system that implements a social networking service for definition by the social network server system of a sub group of those registered users of the social networking service with which the first user has an acquaintanceship relationship the sub group containing the one or more other users.

Implementation 17 is the method of implementation 16 wherein the method further includes receiving from the social network server system and by the telephone service provider server system a request that the telephone service provider server system provide sub group information for the first user the request including an identifier for the first user. The method further includes in response to receiving the request transmitting the obtained information to the social network server system.

Implementation 18 is the method of implementation 17 wherein the identifier comprises a telephone number for the first user that is visible to one or more other users of the social networking system in a profile page for the first user.

Implementation 19 is the method of any one of implementations 16 18 wherein the method further includes after providing the obtained information receiving from the social network server system and by the telephone service provider server system identifiers for one or more users of the telephone service provider that are not the one or more other users who are the members of the preferred calling plan and updating membership of the preferred calling plan to include the one or more users of the telephone service provider that are not the one or more other users.

Implementation 20 is the method of any one of implementations 16 19 wherein the method further includes billing calls between the first user and users of the preferred calling plan in a preferred manner compared to calls between the first user and users that are not in the preferred calling plan.

Other implementations include one or more computer readable storage devices storing instructions that when executed by one or more processing devices perform operations according to the above described methods. Other implementations include systems and apparatus that include the described one or more computer readable storage devices and that are configured to execute the operations using one or more processing devices.

Implementation 21 is a computer implemented system for sharing social information between a social network service and a telephone service provider. The system includes a telephone service provider server system. The telephone service provider server system includes a connection system arranged to transmit voice data between callers and callees. The telephone service provider server system includes a billing module to track calls made between the callers and callees and to adjust accounts of at least some of the callers and callees wherein certain of the callers and callees are members of preferred calling plans for which the billing module applies special adjustment rules. The telephone service provider server system includes a social interface programmed to communicate with one or more social networking systems and to update membership in at least some of the preferred calling plans based on information that is received from the social networks.

Implementation 22 is the system of implementation 21 wherein the telephone service provider server system is programmed to receive from the one or more social network server systems requests that the telephone service provider server system provide sub group information for one or more subscribers of the telephone service provider system and in response to receiving at least some of the requests to transmit the sub group information to the one or more social networking server system the sub group information identifying membership in the preferred calling plans.

Implementation 23 is the system of any one of implementation 21 22 wherein the telephone service provider server system is programmed to receive from the one or more social networking server systems identifiers for members of the preferred calling plans and to update membership of the preferred calling plans to include the identified members.

Implementation 24 is the system of implementation 23 wherein the telephone service provider server system is programmed to bill calls between subscribers in a preferred manner based on information about membership in social networking service sub groups received from the one or more social networking systems.

In one implementation a computer implemented method of sharing social information between a social network service and a telephone service provider is disclosed. In addition one or more recordable storage media are disclosed that have instructions recorded on them where the instructions perform a corresponding method when executed. The method comprises receiving at a server system of the social network and from a telephone service provider information identifying members of a preferred calling group for a first user with the telephone provide identifying using the server system the first user as a member of the social network identifying using the server system one or more of the members of the preferred calling group as being members of the social network and automatically defining using a server system for the social network a social network group that includes the one or more members of the preferred calling group who are members of the social network. The method can also include labeling the defined social network group with a label that correlates for the first user the defined social network group to the preferred calling group. Also defining the social network group can comprise adding the one or more members to a preexisting group. Moreover the information identifying members of the preferred calling group for the first user can comprise telephone numbers for members of the preferred calling group.

In some aspects identifying one or more of the members of the preferred calling group as being members of the social network comprises comparing the received telephone numbers against telephone numbers in profiles of registered members of the social network service. The method also can include receiving changes to membership of the defining social network group from the first user and reporting with the social network server system and to the telephone service provider the changed membership. In addition the method can involve receiving at the social network system from the first user indications of users for a do not contact group and identifying the users in the do not contact group to the telephone service provider for special handling of incoming calls from members of the do not contact group by the telephone service provider. Moreover the method can comprise automatically providing to the telephone service provider information about the do not contact group automatically blocking posts by the first user from being seen by members of the do not contact group and automatically causing ring tones for the first user s telephone to correlate to social groups in the first user s social network with the social network service.

In another implementations a computer implemented system for sharing social information between a social network service and a telephone service provider is disclosed. The system comprises a social network server system that includes a social graph that defines connections between registered users of a social networking service that is implemented by the social network server system a grouping sub system arranged to execute on the social network system that groups registered users who have an acquaintance relationship with a first user into sub groups of users wherein each sub group has a defined relationship that applies to each member of the sub group and an interface arranged to communicate with a telephone service provider and to report to the telephone service provider users in a preferred calling sub group for the telephone service provider to offer the user preferred services for telephone communications with the users in the preferred calling sub group. The group sub system can be arranged to identify one or more noncommunication sub groups for registered users and to provide information about the sub groups to the interface for notifying the telephone service provider to block calls from members of the noncommunication sub groups. Also members of the preferred calling sub group might not be not limited by the system to a same telephone service provider that is used by the user and the social network server system can be programmed to label a social network circle with a label that correlates for the first user the social network circle to the preferred calling sub group. The system may also include a grouping sub system that allows the first user to move acquaintances into and out of the preferred calling sub group.

In yet another implementation a computer implemented method of sharing social information between a social network service and a telephone service provider is disclosed. In addition one or more recordable storage media are disclosed that have instructions recorded on them where the instructions perform a corresponding method when executed. The method comprises identifying by a server system of the telephone service provider a first user of the telephone service provider and one or more other users who are members of a preferred calling plan for the first user obtaining with the server system information for identifying the first user and the one or more other users and providing the obtained identifying information to a social network server system for definition by the social network server system of a social networking circle of the first user that contains the other users. The method may also comprise receiving from the social network server system at the telephone service provider server system a request for group information for the first user that includes an identifier for the first user and in response transmitting the obtained information to the social network server system. The identifier can comprise a telephone number for the first user obtained from a profile page for the first user at the social network server system. The method can additionally comprise after transmitting the obtained identifying information receiving from the social network server system at the telephone service provider server system identifiers for members of the preferred calling plan and updating membership of the preferred calling plan to include the identified users. Moreover the method can include billing calls between the first user and users of the preferred calling plan in a preferred manner compared to calls between the first users and users not in the preferred calling plan and also determining before providing the obtained identifying information to the social network server system the social network server system has previously obtained authorization to receive the obtained identifying information.

In another implementation a computer implemented system for sharing social information between a social network service and a telephone service provider is disclosed that comprises a telephone service provider server system that includes a connection system arranged to transmit voice data between callers and callees a billing module to track calls made between the callers and callees and to adjust accounts of callers and callees wherein certain callers and callees are members of preferred calling plans for which the billing module applies special adjustment rules and a social interface programmed to communicate with one or more social network systems and to update membership in the preferred calling plans based on information received from the social networks. The telephone service provider server system can be programmed to receive from the social network server systems requests for group information for one or more subscribers to the telephone service provider system and in response to transmit the information about membership in the preferred calling plans to the social network server systems. The requests can each include identifiers that comprise a telephone number for a subscriber of the telephone service provider system obtained from a profile page for the subscriber at the particular social network server system.

The details of one or more implementations of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other potential features aspects and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

Large numbers of people have embraced the use of electronic social networking services as tools for building and maintaining networks of personal familial academic professional and other interpersonal relationships. These networks can grow and overlap in ways that may give rise to new concerns. One of the concerns among users of traditional social networking services is that posts that are relevant or intended for consumption by one subgroup of the user s contacts or acquaintances may be irrelevant uninteresting or even embarrassing or offensive when read by other contacts. For example a user s contact list may include friends coworkers and family and there may be some overlap among those groups i.e. a coworker who is also considered to be a friend a family member who is also a coworker .

Social networking circles may be used in a social networking system to better align the natural social groups of a user in the real world with the representation of the user s social life in the social networking service. In general social networking circles are categories to which a user can assign their social networking contacts and better control the distribution and visibility of social networking posts. In accordance with the present disclosure a social networking circle is provided as a data set that defines or references a collection of contacts that are associated with one another in a computer implemented social networking service according to some group characteristic. Generally a social networking circle can be described from the perspective of an individual who is the center of a particular collection of socially interconnected people or from the aggregate perspective of a collection of socially interconnected people. A social networking circle can have narrowly defined boundaries all of the members of the social networking circle may be familiar with one another and permission may be required for a member to join a social networking circle. In accordance with the present disclosure a user of the social networking service defines a social networking circle. The social networking circle as a data set defining a collection of contacts may reflect a real life social networking circle of the user.

When a user simply posts a message to all of the user s contacts on a traditional social networking service the message could be irrelevant and or embarrassing if viewed by a particular sub group of the user s contacts. For example a post about a technical nuance of the user s job may be interesting to the user s coworkers but uninteresting to the user s family. As such the uninterested contacts may begin to ignore the user s posts request that the user s posts be hidden from view when they access the social network or even remove him as a contact entirely in an effort to reduce the number of uninteresting posts they see. In a more serious example the user may post that he s running late for work which may be harmless if read by the user s friends but may be personally or professionally damaging if read by the user s coworkers e.g. boss or family e.g. mom . As such the user of a traditional social networking service may simply choose to censor himself not post anything and or restrict the people he keeps on the user s contact lists. These options can be associated with their own drawbacks. In the case of self censorship the user and some of the user s contacts may be less freely able to exchange information and take full advantage of the social network. In the case of restricting contacts the user may be forced to narrow the focus of the user s electronic social network to a selected category of contacts e.g. to include only family or only coworkers which again restricts the user s ability to interact with other online contacts and take full advantage of the social networking service.

Through the creation and use of social networking circles the user can organize and categorize social networking contacts into various different groupings that can be used to control the visibility and access that those contacts have to the user s postings digital pictures videos audio files hyperlinks e.g. uniform resource indicators URIs and or other content associated with the user s social networking profile. Returning to an earlier example the user could post an update about the aforementioned technical nuance to only a coworker circle and spare other contacts from seeing information that is likely irrelevant or of little interest to them.

In addition particular social networking circles may be assigned a significance that allows the social network system to communicate automatically with other systems outside the social network system regarding parameters of the circles that are so defined. As one example the social network system may communicate with a telecommunications carrier system that manages call routing and billing for telephone users. A user may as one example define at either system a group of certain other users e.g. via name or telephone number with whom the user wants to communicate via a preferred calling plan. Such a plan may be provided by the telecommunications carrier to permit the identification of a limited number of other users for who incoming and outgoing calls from and to the user will not be billed or will be billed at a reduced rate. The group that is so defined may be shared with the other system automatically e.g. so that a social networking circle may be defined that matches the group or so that the user may easily use the social networking system to edit who is part of the group included in the preferred calling plan e.g. with such a change optionally automatically updated by the telecommunications provider . Such a change may be particularly convenient where the social network provides a rich and integrated user interface and the telecommunications provider does not.

In this example user has four other subscribers in the user s preferred calling plan labeled here as Mom Dad Sis and Allan . The telephone service provider may offer a service by which user is able to include up to 5 or some other predetermined number of telephone numbers that the provider will track for purposes of billing. When calls are made to or from those other telephone numbers which the provider may limit to being telephone numbers of in system subscribers the calls may not count against the user s monthly plan minutes may not be billed to the user or may be billed at a reduced rate either in terms of consumed minutes or billed currency .

In addition two other people known here as bad and bully are on a do not connect list. Specifically when the telephone service provider identifies a call coming to user from a telephone number that is associated by the provider with one of those two users the provider may prevent the call from going through and may instead play a message to the caller indicating that the user is busy or unable unwilling to take the call.

To the left side of the figure user is shown in as surrounded by circles that are part of the user s social network at a social networking service. In this example user has created a number of different circles each of which includes one or more of the user s acquaintances from the social network. For example a hospice team circle includes seven people who volunteer with the user in a hospice program and they may share posts about caring for sick patients and other topics that may be of interest in the work that they do. Those posts when they are indicated by a user as being directed to the circle may be viewable only by the eight members of the circle and not to friends of those members or other users of the social network.

The user has also define a book club circle that includes four other members of a book club with whom she meets each month. The members of the book club circle may have no overlap with the members of the hospice team circle or the two circles may have one or more overlapping members. For example perhaps the user invited one of the user s other volunteers from the hospice team to be part of the user s book club. The user may then assign that other user to both circles.

As shown in a family circle includes as its name suggests members of the user s family. Certain communications by the user may thus be directed to this circle such as updates about other family members or posts directed toward planning an upcoming family reunion.

Two other circles are directed to the user s interaction with the telephone service provider . The persona non grata circle represents other users with whom the user does not want to communicate. For example the user may have received friend requests from her ex boyfriends bad and bully and may not want to put them off by failing to friend them but at the same time may not want them to receive communications from the user. She may thus place them in the circle by dragging the icons that represent those users into the circle including in manners discussed with respect to below. Similarly a telcommunication company calling plan circle may represent other users with whom the user wants to communicate telephonically e.g. by either traditional or VoIP telephone . The communications may be directed toward a verbal communication outside the operation of the social network rather than primarily to communications that would be conducted by typing messages in the social network. For such communications it may be more convenient for a user to select other users in the preferred calling plan on a computer with a graphical interface than it would be when using the user s telephone and working through an interactive voice response IVR system. Thus in the manners like those discussed below the user may drag icons for certain other users who she would like to have added to the user s preferred calling plan into the telecommunication company calling plan circle .

Arrows directed between the user and the telephone service provider indicate sharing of user information between the two systems. In particular information about members of a preferred calling plan may move in both directions in the system . In a first direction from the telephone service provider to the social network information associated with a pre existing preferred calling plan may be communicated. For example the user may have previously registered with a cellular telephone carrier and may have submitted telephone numbers for other users whom she would like to contact for a reduced fee using an IVR or other similar mechanism. When the user joins a social network the user may not want to have to look up telephone numbers for each of the other users in the preferred calling plan. So the user may sign up with the social network which may contact the telephone service provider to obtain identifying information for the members of the preferred calling plan. In a typical example the telephone service provider may then pass to the social networking system one or more telephone numbers associated with each of the members of the preferred calling plan. The social network system may then search for those telephone numbers or other identifying information such as by searching profiles of registered members of the system where the members may have entered their telephone contact information so that other members could call them. By performing such a lookup a social networking system may automatically identify the particular other members who were to be added to the preferred calling plan circle for the user and may add them to the circle automatically.

In the reverse direction the communication may occur from a social network to the telephone service provider by a user defining a calling plan circle or editing the membership of the calling plan circle . For example after a user has imported data for defining the calling plan circle from the provider the user may recognize that she could add several additional friends to the preferred calling plan. She may drag icons for those friends into the circle and that action may cause the social network to automatically contact the telephone service provider to provide contact information for those friends who are newly added to the preferred calling plan circle . Such updating may occur automatically and be triggered by the social network whenever a change in membership is made to a calling plan circle of any of the members of the social network who have previously synchronized with a telephone network such as the network of the telephone service provider .

Thus in this manner a user may more conveniently review and manage the user s selections for a preferred calling plan and may do so in a manner that best reflects the user s real life relationships. For example the user may become accustomed to managing relationships in a social networking application and may readily recognize when someone has reached a level of friendship that qualifies that other user as being a close enough friend to be within the preferred calling plan e.g. if the user and the other user are frequently instant messaging back and forth in the social network . Also such an implementation may highlight the benefits of the preferred calling plan to the user thereby providing additional loyalty by the user toward the telephone service provider . Moreover the telephone service provider may provide preferred calling status to and from telephone numbers provided by the social network system even where the users who are associated with the telephone numbers are not subscribers with the telephone service provider . In such a situation the telephone service provider may pick up or absorb particular carriage charges that are owed to other networks such as the network of the other user the friend in return for being able to provide a preferred calling plan service to the user .

In some implementations personal circles are groupings that may not be known to members of the social networking circle. For example the contacts may not receive an indication that they have been added to the social networking circle . The contacts however may receive an indication that they have been added to an unspecified circle of user . In some implementations the user may employ social networking circles to organize contacts in order to discretely target which of the user s contacts will see certain postings or have access to particular information. For example the user may be politically active and tend to post items that would be appreciated by some contacts and vigorously opposed by others. As such the user can organize the user s contacts into Left Political Philosophy Friends and Right Political Philosophy Friends social networking circles. By doing so the user may better target selected postings to the people who would be most appreciative of such information or conversely may prevent such postings from being sent to those of contacts who may be offended by such information.

In some implementations one or more default social networking circles can be defined or suggested to a user when the user subscribes to a social networking service. For example Friends Family and Coworkers social networking circles can automatically be provided in a user s profile upon the user subscribing to the particular social networking service. Other social networking circles can automatically be provided including for example an Acquaintances social networking circle and or a Just Following social networking circle. Although default social networking circles can be automatically provided the user may have to actually populate the default social networking circles with contacts. For example each of the default social networking circles may initially be empty of contacts and the user populates each of the default social networking circles as discussed in further detail herein.

In some implementations one or more default social networking circles can be automatically generated based on the user s profile information. For example the user s profile may include demographic data e.g. age job data and or interests data e.g. sports hobbies . Through data mining techniques e.g. clustering social networking circle creations over a threshold number of users a provider of the social networking service may determine that users within a particular demographic typically create one or more particular types of social networking circles. By categorizing a user within a particular demographic the provider of the social networking service can suggest or automatically generate one or more particular default social networking circles. For example if a particular user falls within a demographic that corresponds to a high school student a default School Friends social networking circle may be suggested to or automatically created for the user. As another example if a particular user falls within a demographic that corresponds to a college student a default College Friends social networking circle may be suggested to or automatically created for the user. Social networking circles can also be suggested to or created for a user based on interest data provided in the user s profile. For example if a particular user s interests include skiing a default Ski Buddies social networking circle may be suggested to or automatically created for the user.

As discussed herein posts can be distributed to contacts within one or more social networking circles within the social network such that the posts are exclusively viewable by the indicated contacts and or contacts within the one or more social networking circles. For example a user of the social networking service can generate a post and indicate one or more social networking circles for distribution of the post. In some implementations an auto complete component enables the user to type in part of the name of a social networking circle and or individual contact to specify which social networking circles and or individual contacts require delivery of the post content. During a post write time a post data set is transmitted from the user s client computing device e.g. mobile device of to a distribution hub which can be provided at a server e.g. server system of . The post data set includes a plurality of data. In some implementations the post data set includes post content data e.g. text uniform resource indicator URI timestamp data e.g. a timestamp indicating the time that the post was generated distribution data e.g. contacts and or one or more social networking circles and identification ID data e.g. an ID assigned to the post data set upon generation of the post .

In some implementations the distribution data is processed to provide an access control list ACL that specifies which contacts within the social networking system are granted access to the post content. In some implementations the distribution hub determines based on the ACL end points to which the post data set is to be distributed. More specifically the set of contacts that care about the post and or that are allowed access to the post is determined based on the ACL and the ID of the post. This set of contacts is written to a per user view index at the distribution hub. When fetching posts to distribute to a user the user view index is accessed and the IDs of the various posts that the user is allowed to view are determined. The post data sets are retrieved from a data store and are transmitted to a client device associated with the requesting user.

The systems may be arranged to share information that is entered on or updated by one of the systems but that can be used by the other system to provide improved services to subscribing users such as a user of device . For example telephone service providers system includes various modules for performing telephone connection services and for managing such services. As one example a connection system may take a variety of well known forms e.g. implementing SS7 VoIP etc. for receiving telephone call requests and for linking a caller to a callee or callees. The connection system may communicate with a billing module . The billing module may be tasked with reconciling the costs of carrying telephone calls by the telephone service provider system . A users module is a part of the billing module . The user s module may be responsible for generating and recording billing events for users who subscribe to the telephone service provider system . For example the users module may credit users with a certain number of minutes each month in the connection system that the users may use to send or receive telephone calls while the users module may track the user s use of those minutes and keep track of the remaining minutes notifying the connection system when the minutes have expired so that an appropriate message may be sent to the user e.g. so that the user may purchase additional minutes . In a similar manner the system may increment a dollar value owed by the user when calls are made or received.

In a similar manner a carrier module may be responsible for handling inter carrier billing operations. For example when one carrier completes a call from one of its subscribers to another user who is outside the system operated by that carrier the one carrier may be required by contractual agreement entered into with a carrier of the other user to make payments to the other carrier for the call. Mechanisms for making such transactions and for handling offsetting payments e.g. when users for two different networks make calls in both directions between the networks are well known and a particular mechanism for such operations is not described herein.

A ring tones data store may also be provided as a supplemental service for users of the system . The data store may include various customizable ring tones that a user may download to their telephone so that particular ring tones will play when incoming calls are received from particular other telephone numbers. In certain instances the system may charge users an amount for the use of certain ring tones.

Preferred calling information data store may be implemented to provide preferred calling plans to subscribers of the system . In particular preferred calling information data store may correlate accounts for particular users with telephone numbers or accounts for other users. The billing module and in particular the user s module may obtain the proper calling information data store when users make calls so as to determine an amount by which to decrement available minutes to a caller or an amount to charge a caller e.g. to not charge minutes if the other party to a call is part of a preferred calling plan .

Social interface may also be added to the service provider system . The social interface may to receive information from the social network system and provide social related information to the social network system . The social interface may be programmed with routines for querying other components of the system in order to obtain information needed by the social network system . For example if the social network system provides to the social interface an identifier for a particular user such as a username a common user ID number or a telephone number for the user the social interface may supply the identifier to the preferred calling information data store to identify telephone numbers for people in the user s preferred calling plan. The social interface may then forward the telephone numbers of the other people to the social network system for use in manners like those discussed above and below.

Referring now to social network system in the components in the social network system may implement traditional social networking functionality and may provide additional functionality by communicating with the telephone service providers system . For basic social networking a messaging subsystem may be responsible for receiving textual messages from users of the system and for forwarding those messages to other users of the system. In determining what other users are to see such messages the messaging subsystem may refer to a social graph . The social graph may represent connections between users in the form of relationships that have been defined by the user. Certain forms of relationships may be implemented for the users in the form of social networking circles like those discussed above and below and may be implemented technically inside the system as a graph in which users are nodes in the graph and connections between users are edges in the graph. Overlapping graphs may also be provided where nodes in the overlapping graphs may represent advertisements that may be displayed to users topics that are relevant to the interests of the users and other such items. A grouping subsystem may be used to interact with users of the system in order to identify groups that such users will like to define including groups in the form of social networking circles like those discussed above and below. The grouping subsystem may refer to a group data store in order to identify what grouping relationships have been defined by users of the system or to automatically process actions based on group membership. For example such automatic action may include definition of groups such as calling plan groups using information that the system obtained from a telephone service provider system as in manners described above and below.

A user data data store may also be used to store information about particular users of the system. Such information may be presented and stored in the form of profiles for particular users where the profiles store information that characterizes the users and that can be employed to provide improved services to the users. For example a user may identify the user s interests and hobbies so that the system can suggest to them circles that they may want to make themselves part of. Also users may provide contact information such as e mail addresses and telephone numbers so that other users of the system such as users who may be identified as being friends in the system may contact the user through the system or outside of the system .

A search engine may be used to provide various search functionality and other services within the system . In one example that is relevant here the telephone service provider system may request an updated list of members of a particular user s preferred calling plan in the system . The search engine may provide a formatted form of the request in a query to the group data data store using an identifier for the first user. The group data data store may determine internal identifiers e.g. internal user ID numbers for members of the first user s preferred calling circle. The search engine may then use the internal identifiers to query the user data data store and receive telephone numbers email addresses and or other externally relevant identifiers for those other users. The search engine may then communicate with an interface not shown in system that in turn passes the telephone numbers and or other appropriate identifiers to the social interface of the system . Thus again the system may provide for convenient sharing of information between a telecommunications system and a social networking system in a manner that enhances the services provided by both systems and improves the user experience with both systems.

The UI includes a number of choices that are presented in a menu bar . In the present example the Social Network choice has been selected by a user. This selection causes a web based social networking application to be executed and a social network menu to be displayed along the left edge of the UI . The social network menu includes a profile indicator in which information such as a user name and a user image associated with the currently logged in user e.g. Judith Light are displayed.

The social network menu also displays among other items a circles submenu . The circles submenu when selected e.g. as represented by the highlighting of the submenu s title causes a social networking circle display to be presented in the main field of the UI . The social networking circle display includes a number of circles that are visual representations of various social networking circles that the user has created or has permission to edit. Each of the circles displays information about the social networking circle it represents. For example the circle displays a name and a count of the number of contacts associated with the social networking circle. Similar information is displayed for other circles.

The social networking circle display also includes a contact display along its upper edge. The contact display provides a graphical interface for viewing selecting and organizing items in the user s contact lists. A collection of contact icons represents the contacts or other entities e.g. organizations places or other items that are socially networked with the particular user. In some implementations the icons can be digital images of the contacts they represent e.g. the icons arbitrary images e.g. the icons or placeholders e.g. when the contact has no image associated with their account such as the icon . Contacts who are members of one or more of the user s social networking circles are identified by an indicator superimposed upon the icons e.g. the icons . A scroll bar is provided for the user to access additional contact icons that may not fit into the initial view.

A collection of filter buttons is provided to select subsets of the user s contacts. The all people filter button when selected causes the contact display to display the user s contacts with no filtering or substantially no filtering. The selected filter button when selected causes the contact display to display only the contacts that have been selected by the user. For example the user may select multiple contacts while in an all people view and may then display only the user s selected contacts by pressing the selected filter button . The in circles filter button when selected causes the contact display to display only or substantially only the contacts who share at least one social networking circle with the user. The no circles filter button when selected causes the contact display to display only or substantially only the contacts that are not in a social networking circle with the user e.g. a Boolean not of the in circles group . A search input box is provided so the user can type in all or part of a name and the resulting matches will appear in the contact display .

A sorting selector provides selections that the user may select in order to alter the way that the user s contacts are displayed in the contact display . For example a frequently contacted selection may be chosen to sort the user s contacts according to how often the user communicates with the contacts e.g. by tracking numbers or lengths of social networking circle posts emails instant messages or telephone calls . In another example a number of circles selection may be chosen to sort the user s contacts according to how many circles the contact shares with the user.

A posting box is also provided in the UI near the upper edge of the UI. The posting box can be present across multiple web based applications such that a user can enter and publish a post from any of the multiple web based applications without having to go back to the social networking application to author and publish a post. For example and as noted above the posting box is provided in the UI of the social networking application. The user however may switch to work in another application. For example the user may select Mail from the menu bar upon which selection a web based email application is executed. A UI of the web based email application not shown will also include the posting box such that the user can still post to the social networking service even though the user is not directly working in the social networking application. The posting box may also be implemented in a toolbar that may stay anchored in a single location and substantially maintain its appearance regardless of the application that is being used. Such a toolbar may communicate with the browser or applications e.g. to determine what application was executing when a post was made and to also determine the context of the application at the time the post was made so as to improve the system capabilities e.g. so that the post may be accompanied by a posted form email note .

In the displayed state the UI is shown with the user adding a collection of selected contacts to the friends circle by dragging them with a pointer . In some implementations the user can select one or more contact icons by clicking so called shift clicking lassoing rubber banding or by performing other actions within the UI to select one or more of the contact icons . The user then drags the selected contacts to a target social networking circle which in this example is the friends social networking circle . Such dragging is prompted here by Drag contacts instructions shown in the middle of the circle . 

The selected contacts are represented by a selected contacts indicator . The selected contacts indicator appears as a stack of the selected contacts contact icons . For example the selected contacts include the contact Rob and the contact icon appears in the stack of the contacts indicator . A count indicator is superimposed onto the contacts indicator to display the number of contacts in the selected group e.g. 3 in this example . The selected contacts indicator may be dragged e.g. moved and dropped e.g. released onto a social networking circle to add the selected contacts to the selected social networking circle. In the illustrated example the user appears to be dragging the selected contacts to make them members of the friends circle . The user is also able to add contacts to a circle by selecting one or more of the contact icons and then selecting one or more of a collection of circle selectors . For example the user can click the contact icon and then click the coworkers circle selector to add David to the coworkers social networking circle

The selected contacts indicator can also be dragged and dropped onto a new circle region e.g. where the UI shows blank space or an indicator for making new circles. By dropping the selected contacts indicator onto a new circle region a process for creating a new social networking circle of which the selected contacts will become members is initiated. The user is also able to create a new circle by clicking the new circle selector . Where a labeled new circle region is shown e.g. indicator the act of dragging contacts to an open area may result in a cancellation of an action that was previously started and the icons may fly back in the UI to their original positions.

Separately in the UI the family social networking circle has been visually modified to display a number of member icons . The modification provides a visual representation of the contact icons e.g. contact icons for contacts included in the social networking circle . Such a modification may occur when the user hovers the pointer over that circle e.g. the dragging operation just described and the display of detail in the family social networking circle might not ordinarily appear at the same time but are shown simultaneously here for simplicity. The modified social networking circle also includes an add icon . The add icon when selected initiates a process for adding more contacts to the associated social networking circle . For example clicking the icon can cause a dialog box or other user interface to appear with which the user can interact to add contacts to the social networking circle

Certain social networking circles may be provided that have special functionality not available for the other social networking circles with data operators outside the social network. One such social networking circle is the Telco Co. Preferred Calling social networking circle . From a user interface perspective the social networking circle acts like the other social networking circles described here e.g. icons for members can be dragged in or out of the circle typed posts can be shared with the members of the circle the appearance of the circle can be modified to see more detail about the circle etc.

The Telco Co. Preferred Calling social networking circle has special functionality in addition though. In particular the social networking circle represents a portal to the user s wireless carrier preferred calling plan. That is the social networking circle represents a portal with an organization that is separate and distinct from the organization that operates the social network system. As a result the Telco Co. Preferred Calling social networking circle may have been defined automatically when the user initially set up the user s social network and the user may have been prompted to indicate whether the user had a particular wireless carrier to provide permission for the social network to communicate information about the calling plan with the carrier and to provide profile information so that the social network could accurately identify the user to the carrier via an automated electronic information exchange e.g. via an application programming interface API defined by the social network that may use XML formatted messages and the like . The social network may have then used the information to automatically contact the carrier obtain information about the preferred calling plan e.g. telephone numbers of other members in the plan and cross reference that information to existing members of the social network. Where those existing members were not already friends of the user in the social network the system may cause automatic friend requests to be generated and may prompt the user to send the requests. If the preferred calling plan members are not in the social network the system may prompt the user for more information about the other members e.g. their email addresses and may send an invitation to them to join the social network where the invitation indicates that the other members too can manage their preferred calling plan memberships using a graphical user interface.

When the user drags other members in or out of the Telco Co. Preferred Calling social networking circle such action when confirmed e.g. after the user leaves the application can result in an automated communication occurring between the social network and a carrier for the user. In particular the social network can send a notice to the carrier where the notice includes an identifier for the user and identifiers for members of the preferred calling plan circle. The carrier can then update its records so that the newly added members become part of the actual preferred calling plan and the deleted members are no longer part of the plan.

The process begins at box where the social network enrolls various users. Such enrollment may occur by traditional mechanisms such as by existing users who invite other users to enroll with the social network. When enrolling a user may provide to the social network system profile information about themselves that may assist the system in improving the services that are offered to such users. For example users may provide their gender age hobbies interests and other information that they are willing to share with the system. In addition the users may provide both private and public contact information. As one example a user may provide an e mail address that may be used by the system in communicating with the user and may also be made available to certain other users by approval from the providing user. For instance the first user may not want the user s e mail address to be publicly available but may be willing to share it with friends who are in certain ones of the user s social networking circles. Similarly the user may supply one or more telephone numbers that may be shown to certain ones of the user s friends.

At box the system receives information that identifies members of the user s calling group. For example when the user originally signed up with the social network the user may have indicated that he or she is a subscriber for a particular wireless telephone carrier. In response to such an indication the social network may have automatically generated a communication to the identified carrier to obtain existing calling group information for the user. The social network may have established a pre existing business relationship with the carrier so that the social network may supply the carrier with telephone numbers and the carrier may return other telephone numbers that are in a calling group that correspond to the supplied number. Both systems may have done so after obtaining prior approval from the user to share such information. Alternatively the information may have arrived at the social network independently of a request for such information so that the social network is required to identify the user for whom the information is intended.

At box such an identification is made. In particular the the account of the user whose account is associated with the calling group is checked to confirm that the user are a user of the social network with a registered account. Such an operation may include performing a lookup on a user identifier such as a telephone number for the user with the profile of the social network.

At box the process identifies members of the calling group as members of the social network. Again phone numbers supplied by the carrier for each of the other members may be checked against phone numbers in profiles of registered members of the social network.

At box the process fails to find matching phone numbers for certain of the members and thus concludes that those members might not be members of the social network. As a result the process may send a communication to the first user asking the first user to provide additional identifying information about the other members. Such additional identifying information may be used to further search for matches among existing members of the social network or may be used to generate communications to such people to encourage them to become members of the social network. For example the system may send information for display to the first user to inform the first user that it does not have a match for a particular phone number and may request that the first user provide an e mail address for the person assigned to that phone number. The system may then generate an e mail to be sent to that person and the e mail may include a hyperlink that directs that person to the social network site with the ability to enroll with the social network site. The system may send a text message to the particular phone number. The text message may request that a recipient of the particular phone number link the phone number to a social network account for example by selecting a link in the text message to log into their social network account or to set up a new social network account.

At box once the process has identified existing subscribers who are members of the plan and attempted to enroll people who are not subscribers of the social network it defines a social network circle. Such action may involve creating a social network circle object that contains each of the members. Such organization is represented graphically for example in . A user may then interact conveniently with the circle using the UI described above or other mechanisms and such interaction may involve changes to the membership of the calling group circle box . When such changes occur the changes may then be communicated to the telephone service provider or carrier box so that the actual calling group stays automatically and dynamically synchronized with the calling group circle. In some examples the social network circle is defined without receiving input from the user after the system receives information that identifies members of the user s calling group and before the social network circle is defined by the system. In other words the social network circle may be defined automatically. In some examples the social network circle is defined without receiving input from the user that specifies the members of the social network circle.

Such activity may be the end of the users interactions with the carrier or if the user is a member of a social network the user may so notify the carrier so as to request that the carrier provide identifying information for other members to a social network box . In response to such a request the carrier may identify the user box such as by tracking a number from which the user has called into an IVR system having the user log into a web site or in other known manners. The process may then look up the identities of the other members who are in the first user s preferred calling group and may transmit information about those other members to a social network of which the first user is a member box . The process may have determined that the user is a member of the social network by the user identifying such a relationship to the carrier e.g. when activating an account or by the social network making an electronic request of the carrier according to an API between the social network and the carrier e.g. where the social network may make such requests only when asked to do so by the user .

The carrier may then go dormant with respect to communications with the social network. After some time however at box the carrier may receive from the social network a notification about changes that have been made to the constitution of the preferred calling group. For example a user may have interacted with a circle for the group in manners like those discussed above for to add or remove members from the circle. The notification from the social network may thus be to the same effect and at box the carrier may act to synchronize the actual preferred calling group with the preferred calling group circle so as to update billing rules for calls made to and from the user box .

In this example the subscriber s social network account is relatively new and does not have a preexisting circle for the user s calling plan so at box the social server system establishes an empty social circle. There is nothing yet to fill the circle because the user had not yet established members for a preferred calling plan at the telecommunications system preferring instead to use the superior user interface offered by the social network system. The subscriber does so at box such as by using an interface like that shown in above. For example the user may generate a social networking circle and select a graphical user interface element that flags the social networking circle as identifying members of a preferred calling plan. A user may be limited to selecting a single circle as identifying members of a preferred calling plan or may be limited to selecting a single circle for such a preferred calling plan per wireless carrier with which the user is associated. At box the social server system identifies that a relevant change has been made to a calling plan circle and in response it identifies telephone numbers for members who have been added to the circle such as by checking profiles for those users. With the information gathered the social server system transmits identifying information for the new circle members box so that the telecommunications system can either update or establish a preferred calling group.

Computing device includes a processor memory a storage device a high speed interface connecting to memory and high speed expansion ports and a low speed interface connecting to low speed bus and storage device . Each of the components and are interconnected using various busses and may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate. The processor can process instructions for execution within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a GUI on an external input output device such as display coupled to high speed interface . In other implementations multiple processors and or multiple buses may be used as appropriate along with multiple memories and types of memory. Also multiple computing devices may be connected with each device providing portions of the necessary operations e.g. as a server bank a group of blade servers or a multi processor system .

The memory stores information within the computing device . In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit or units. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit or units. The memory may also be another form of computer readable medium such as a magnetic or optical disk.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the computing device . In one implementation the storage device may be or contain a computer readable medium such as a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device a flash memory or other similar solid state memory device or an array of devices including devices in a storage area network or other configurations. A computer program product can be tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product may also contain instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory the storage device or memory on processor .

The high speed controller manages bandwidth intensive operations for the computing device while the low speed controller manages lower bandwidth intensive operations. Such allocation of functions is but one example allocation. In one implementation the high speed controller is coupled to memory display e.g. through a graphics processor or accelerator and to high speed expansion ports which may accept various expansion cards not shown . In the implementation low speed controller is coupled to storage device and low speed expansion port . The low speed expansion port which may include various communication ports e.g. USB Bluetooth Ethernet wireless Ethernet may be coupled to one or more input output devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a scanner or a networking device such as a switch or router e.g. through a network adapter.

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a standard server or multiple times in a group of such servers. It may also be implemented as part of a rack server system . A server system may comprise one or more individual servers. A server system may be a combination of hardware and software that provides a service or a set of services. For example a set of physically separate and networked computerized devices may operate together as a logical server system unit to handle the operations necessary to offer a service to hundreds of computing devices. In addition it may be implemented in a personal computer such as a laptop computer . Alternatively components from computing device may be combined with other components in a mobile device not shown such as device . Each of such devices may contain one or more of computing device and an entire system may be made up of multiple computing devices communicating with each other.

Computing device includes a processor memory an input output device such as a display a communication interface and a transceiver among other components. The device may also be provided with a storage device such as a microdrive or other device to provide additional storage. Each of the components and are interconnected using various buses and several of the components may be mounted on a common motherboard or in other manners as appropriate.

The processor can execute instructions within the computing device including instructions stored in the memory . The processor may be implemented as a chipset of chips that include separate and multiple analog and digital processors. Additionally the processor may be implemented using any of a number of architectures. For example the processor may be a CISC Complex Instruction Set Computers processor a RISC Reduced Instruction Set Computer processor or a MISC Minimal Instruction Set Computer processor. The processor may provide for example for coordination of the other components of the device such as control of user interfaces applications run by device and wireless communication by device .

Processor may communicate with a user through control interface and display interface coupled to a display . The display may be for example a TFT Thin Film Transistor Liquid Crystal Display display or an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display or other appropriate display technology. The display interface may comprise appropriate circuitry for driving the display to present graphical and other information to a user. The control interface may receive commands from a user and convert them for submission to the processor . In addition an external interface may be provide in communication with processor so as to enable near area communication of device with other devices. External interface may provide for example for wired communication in some implementations or for wireless communication in other implementations and multiple interfaces may also be used.

The memory stores information within the computing device . The memory can be implemented as one or more of a computer readable medium or media a volatile memory unit or units or a non volatile memory unit or units. Expansion memory may also be provided and connected to device through expansion interface which may include for example a SIMM Single In Line Memory Module card interface. Such expansion memory may provide extra storage space for device or may also store applications or other information for device . Specifically expansion memory may include instructions to carry out or supplement the processes described above and may include secure information also. Thus for example expansion memory may be provide as a security module for device and may be programmed with instructions that permit secure use of device . In addition secure applications may be provided via the SIMM cards along with additional information such as placing identifying information on the SIMM card in a non hackable manner.

The memory may include for example flash memory and or NVRAM memory as discussed below. In one implementation a computer program product is tangibly embodied in an information carrier. The computer program product contains instructions that when executed perform one or more methods such as those described above. The information carrier is a computer or machine readable medium such as the memory expansion memory or memory on processor that may be received for example over transceiver or external interface .

Device may communicate wirelessly through communication interface which may include digital signal processing circuitry where necessary. Communication interface may provide for communications under various modes or protocols such as GSM voice calls SMS EMS or MMS messaging CDMA TDMA PDC WCDMA CDMA2000 or GPRS among others. Such communication may occur for example through radio frequency transceiver . In addition short range communication may occur such as using a Bluetooth WiFi or other such transceiver not shown . In addition GPS Global Positioning System receiver module may provide additional navigation and location related wireless data to device which may be used as appropriate by applications running on device .

Device may also communicate audibly using audio codec which may receive spoken information from a user and convert it to usable digital information. Audio codec may likewise generate audible sound for a user such as through a speaker e.g. in a handset of device . Such sound may include sound from voice telephone calls may include recorded sound e.g. voice messages music files etc. and may also include sound generated by applications operating on device .

The computing device may be implemented in a number of different forms as shown in the figure. For example it may be implemented as a cellular telephone . It may also be implemented as part of a smartphone personal digital assistant or other similar mobile device.

Various implementations of the systems and techniques described here can be realized in digital electronic circuitry integrated circuitry specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits computer hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. These various implementations can include implementation in one or more computer programs that are executable and or interpretable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor which may be special or general purpose coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device.

These computer programs also known as programs software software applications or code include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. As used herein the terms machine readable medium computer readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device e.g. magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor including a machine readable medium that receives machine instructions as a machine readable signal. The term machine readable signal refers to any signal used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor.

To provide for interaction with a user the systems and techniques described here can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

The systems and techniques described here can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN peer to peer networks having ad hoc or static members grid computing infrastructures and the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this disclosure contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the disclosure or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of the disclosure. Certain features that are described in this disclosure in the context of separate implementations can also be provided in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be provided in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

In each instance where an HTML file is mentioned other file types or formats may be substituted. For instance an HTML file may be replaced by an XML JSON plain text or other types of files. Moreover where a table or hash table is mentioned other data structures such as spreadsheets relational databases or structured files may be used.

Thus particular implementations of the present disclosure have been described. Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results.

