---

title: Dynamic control of channel sounding for transmit beamforming
abstract: The present disclosure discloses a system and method for dynamic control of channel sounding for transmit beamforming. Generally, sounding frames are periodically transmitted by a network device to a particular device at a first sounding interval. First feedback information is received from the particular device. The first feedback information corresponds to the sounding frames transmitted at the first sounding interval. Based on one or more current conditions included in the feedback information, a second sounding interval is selected to transmit the sounding frames to the particular device. The sounding frames are periodically transmitted to the particular device at the second sounding interval. Second feedback information is received from the particular device. The second feedback information corresponds to the sounding frames transmitted at the second sounding interval.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09571249&OS=09571249&RS=09571249
owner: Aruba Networks, Inc.
number: 09571249
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140729
---
The present disclosure relates to dynamic control of channel sounding for transmit beamforming. In particular the present disclosure relates to dynamically controlling channel sounding intervals based on client device mobility airtime used by the client device during a sounding process a combination of the two and or one or more other criteria for transmitting beamformed network signals to the client device.

Depending on a channel bandwidth number of subcarriers and antenna transmitting and receiving configurations the size of a beamforming report that is used to calculate a steering matrix at an access point can vary significantly. Typically an average time of a sounding process using a standard based approach takes around 500 microseconds. This sounding can be done either on a per packet basis or at a coarser granularity based on configuration. If this sounding is done at very frequent sounding intervals one can achieve superior beamforming gains. However these increased beamforming gains would come at a cost of increased airtime required for the sounding. On the other hand if this sounding is done infrequently and the location of a client device to which to transmit beamforming changes or if the multipath to the client device changes significantly then the expected beamforming gains that one would expect may be reduced and further may result in lower rates and higher airtime consumption for the data transmission.

In the following description several specific details are presented to provide a thorough understanding. While the context of the disclosure is directed to dynamic control of channel sounding for transmit beamforming one skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the concepts and techniques disclosed herein can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or in combination with other components etc. In other instances well known implementations or operations are not shown or described in details to avoid obscuring aspects of various examples disclosed herein. It should be understood that this disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relates to dynamic control of channel sounding for transmit beamforming. In particular the present disclosure relates to dynamically controlling a channel sounding interval based on feedback information from a client device also referred to herein as a beamformee . The sounding interval refers to how frequently a sounding process is performed. For example if the sounding interval is scaled down the frequency of performing the sounding process increases. In some embodiments the feedback information may be computed based on sounding frames sent by a network device also referred to herein as a beamformer . Using the feedback information the beamformer can adjust the sounding interval for initiating a sounding process with the beamformee at that interval and also can compute a steering matrix to steer transmissions e.g. data packets frames network signals etc. towards the beamformee in a particular direction. In some embodiments the process of transmission of data packets sounding frames and or network signals towards the beamformee in the particular direction is generally known as beamforming.

In some embodiments the dynamic channel sounding mechanism may be enabled or disabled through explicit control of an administrator. Also in some embodiments the administrator can set a default value for the sounding interval. In other embodiment the administrator can set a default value for the highest value of the sounding interval. In other embodiments the administrator can also set a default value for the least value for the sounding interval.

In some embodiments a beamformer can adjust the sounding interval based on a change in location of a beamformee in a sounding environment or based on a change in multipath to the beamformee. In some embodiments the change in location information for the beamformee may be included in the feedback information and the beamformer may analyze the feedback information to determine whether the beamformee location has been changed. In some embodiments the location information of the beamformee is obtained from other services of this system . Responsive to determining the beamformee s change in location the beamformer can adjust the sounding interval to initiate a sounding process with the beamformee more frequently. For example the beamformer can decrease a sounding interval from 100 microseconds to 80 microseconds to perform the sounding process more frequently. Adjusting the sounding interval based on beamformee s mobility in the sounding environment is advantageous as it enables the beamformer to be frequently updated of the beamformee s current location and transmit beamforming in the right direction of the beamformer to achieve maximum beamforming gains. Similarly responsive to determining that multipath to the beamformee has changed the beamformer can adjust the sounding interval to initiate a sounding process with the beamformee more frequently.

In some embodiments a beamformer can adjust the sounding interval based on determining a change in airtime consumption by a beamformee during a sounding process. The change in airtime per bit used by the beamformee may be an indirect indication of the link quality. For example if a beamformee location changes the previous sounding information becomes stale. If now a lesser received signal strength indicator at the beamformee is received the rate control switches to a lower rate and therefore a higher airtime for sending the same bit of information is needed. In this example the sounding interval would be scaled down and the sounding process may be performed more frequently. This scaling up or down of the sounding interval based on the airtime consumption is advantageous as it enables the beamformer to initiate a subsequent sounding process with the beamformee at correct or more optimal sounding interval considering the increase or decrease in airtime took by the beamformee during the prior sounding process.

In some embodiments a beamformer can adjust a sounding interval based on a combination of beamformee s location information or based on a change in multipath to the beamformee and the beamformee s airtime consumption information. The beamformee s location information and the airtime consumption information may be included in the feedback information as discussed elsewhere herein. In some embodiments the beamformer may increase the sounding interval upon determining the beamformee s location and the airtime consumption to be static unchanged. This is advantageous as frequent or unnecessary sounding with the beamformee may be avoided if the beamformee found to be constant during two or more sounding processes in the sounding environment. In some embodiments the beamformer may decrease the sounding interval upon finding either of the beamformee s location or change in multipath to the beamformee and or airtime consumption to be changed as discussed elsewhere herein.

In some embodiments a beamformer can adjust a sounding interval based on one or more other criteria. The one or more other criteria may include for example and without limitation current transmission rate being used for transmissions to a beamformee current distance of the beamformee from the beamformer packet error rate for packets exchanged between the beamformee and the beamformer channels state information describing current state of the channel i.e. whether the channels is strong weak current load of the channel etc. amount of traffic i.e. frames data packets exchanged between the beamformee and the beamformer virtual access point VAP associated with the beamformee type of user associated with the beamformee type of beamformee i.e. whether the beamformee client device is a tablet smartphone desktop laptop etc. characteristics of data transmitted by the beamformee i.e. whether the data transmitted by the beamformee is a high priority data or low priority data movement of other beamformee s in the sounding environment relative to the beamformee current location multipath to the beamformee characteristics associated with the one or more beamformee s number of beamformee s associated with the beamformer for transmission etc.

The controller is a hardware device and or software module that provide network managements which include but are not limited to controlling planning allocating deploying coordinating and monitoring the resources of a network network planning frequency allocation predetermined traffic routing to support load balancing cryptographic key distribution authorization configuration management fault management security management performance management bandwidth management route analytics and accounting management etc. In some embodiments the controller is an optional component in the digital network environment .

Moreover assuming that a number of access points such as access point are interconnected with the network controller . Each access point may be interconnected with zero or more client devices via either a wired interface or a wireless interface. In this example for illustration purposes only assuming that the client is associated with the access point via a wireless link. An access point generally refers to a network device that allows wireless clients to connect to a wired network. Access points usually connect to a controller via a wired network or can be a part of a controller in itself. For example the access point is connected to the controller via an optional L2 L3 network B. In some embodiments an access point can be connected to another access point . For example the access point is connected to the access point

Wired interfaces typically include IEEE 802.3 Ethernet interfaces used for wired connections to other network devices such as switches or to a controller. Wireless interfaces may be WiMAX 3G 4G and or IEEE 802.11 wireless interfaces. In some embodiments controllers and APs may operate under control of operating systems with purpose built programs providing host controller and access point functionality.

Furthermore the controller can be connected to the router through zero or more hops in a layer 3 or layer 2 network such as L2 L3 Network A . The router can forward traffic to and receive traffic from the Internet . The router generally is a network device that forwards data packets between different networks and thus creating an overlay internetwork. A router is typically connected to two or more data lines from different networks. When a data packet comes in one of the data lines the router reads the address information in the packet to determine its destination. Then using information in its routing table or routing policy the router directs the packet to the next different network. A data packet is typically forwarded from one router to another router through the Internet until the packet gets to its destination.

The gateway is a network device that passes network traffic from local subnet to devices on other subnets. In some embodiments the gateway may be connected to a controller or be a part of the controller depending on the configuration of the controller . In some embodiments the gateway is an optional component in the digital network environment .

Web servers and are hardware devices and or software modules that facilitate delivery of web content that can be accessed through the Internet . For example the web server A may be assigned an IP address of 1.1.1.1 and used to host a first Internet website e.g. www.yahoo.com the web server B may be assigned an IP address of 2.2.2.2 and used to host a second Internet website e.g. www.google.com and the web server C may be assigned an IP address of 3.3.3.3 and used to host a third Internet website e.g. www.facebook.com .

The clients and also individually and collectively referred to as are computing devices that includes a memory and a processor for example a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile email device a portable game player a portable music player a reader device a television with one or more processors embedded therein or coupled thereto or other electronic device capable of accessing a network. Although only two clients are illustrated in a plurality of clients can be included in . As illustrated the clients may receive network signals e.g. WI FI signals to connect to a network e.g. internet from the access points . It should be understood that these access points providing the clients with the network signals may be sometimes interchangeably referred to as beamformers and the clients receiving the network signals from the access points may be interchangeably referred to as beamformees throughout this disclosure.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure network services provided by the network device solely or in combination with other wireless network devices include but are not limited to an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.1x authentication to an internal and or external Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS server an MAC authentication to an internal and or external RADIUS server a built in Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP service to assign wireless client devices IP addresses an internal secured management interface Layer 3 forwarding Network Address Translation NAT service between the wireless network and a wired network coupled to the network device an internal and or external captive portal an external management system for managing the network devices in the wireless network etc. In some embodiments the network device or system may serve as a node in a distributed or a cloud computing environment.

In some embodiments the network device includes a network interface capable of communicating to a wired network a processor a memory and a storage device . The components of the network device are communicatively coupled to each other.

The network interface can be any communication interface which includes but is not limited to a modem token ring interface Ethernet interface wireless IEEE 802.11 interface e.g. IEEE 802.11n IEEE 802.11ac etc. cellular wireless interface satellite transmission interface or any other interface for coupling network devices. In some embodiments the network interface may be software defined and programmable for example via an Application Programming Interface API and thus allowing for remote control of the network device .

The processor includes an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array to perform computations and provide electronic display signals to a display device. Processor processes data signals and may include various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although includes a single processor multiple processors may be included. Other processors operating systems sensors displays and physical configurations are possible. In some embodiments the processor includes a networking processor core that is capable of processing network data traffic.

The memory stores instructions and or data that may be executed by the processor . The instructions and or data may include code for performing the techniques described herein. The memory may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory device. In some embodiments the memory also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media including a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device for storing information on a more permanent basis.

In some embodiments the memory stores a channel sounding application . The channel sounding application can be the code and routines that when executed by processor cause the network device to initiate a sounding process between an access point and a client transmit beamformed signals to the client based on the sounding process and dynamically adjust a sounding interval for initiating subsequent sounding processes between the access point and the client . In some embodiments the channel sounding application can be implemented using hardware including a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA or an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC . In some other embodiments the channel sounding application can be implemented using a combination of hardware and software. In some embodiments the channel sounding application may be stored in a combination of the network devices or in one of the network devices. The channel sounding application is described below in more detail with reference to .

The storage device can be a non transitory memory that stores data for providing the functionality described herein. The storage device may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory devices. In some embodiments the storage device also includes a non volatile memory or similar permanent storage device and media including a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device for storing information on a more permanent basis.

The channel sounding application can be software including routines for initiating a sounding process between a network device also known as beamformer and a client device also known as beamformee and dynamically adjusting sounding interval for initiating subsequent sounding processes based on feedback information from the beamformee. In some embodiments the channel sounding application can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the channel sounding application can be stored in the memory and can be accessible and executable by the processor .

The communication module can be software including routines for handling communications between one or more components of the beamformer engine and the beamformee engine . For instance the one or more components of the beamformer engine and the beamformee engine may interact with one another via the communication module to perform a sounding process. By way of example the sounding process initiation module of the beamformer engine and the sounding process acknowledgement module of the beamformee engine may interact with one another via the communication module to initiate a sounding process between a beamformer and a beamformee. In some embodiments the communication module may be further capable of handling communications between the channel sounding application including its one or more components and other components in the digital network environment as depicted in .

In some embodiments the communication module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the communication module can be stored in the memory of the network device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . The communication module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the network device such as the network interface the storage etc. In some embodiments the communication module sends and receives data to and from one or more of a client an access point and other network devices via the network interface in the event of distributed functionalities. In some embodiments the communication module receives data from other components of the access control application and stores the data in the storage device .

The beamformer engine can be software including routines for initiating a sounding process with a beamformee at a particular sounding interval transmit a beamforming to the beamformee based on feedback information from the beamformee and dynamically adjust the sounding interval based on the feedback information. In some embodiments the beamformer engine can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the beamformer engine can be stored in the memory and can be accessible and executable by the processor . As depicted the beamformer engine may include the sounding process initiation module the data packet generator the sounding interval adjustment module and the steering matrix computation module .

The sounding process initiation module can be software including routines for initiating a sounding process between a beamformer and a beamformee. In some embodiments the beamformer may be a network device capable of transmitting network signals to a receiver device such as a client device. For example the beamformer may be an access point . In some embodiments the beamformee may be a receiver device capable of receiving the network signals from the beamformer. For example the beamformee may be a client . In some embodiments the sounding process initiation module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the sounding process initiation module can be stored in the memory of the network device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . The sounding process initiation module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the network device such as the network interface the storage etc.

In some embodiments the sounding process may be initiated by the sounding process initiation module to determine how to radiate energy or network signals towards the beamformee in a preferred direction. In some embodiments the sounding process may enable a beamformer to identify a sounding channel on which to radiate the energy or the network signals towards the beamformee. Radiating the network signals on this sounding channel is advantageous as it enables the beamformer and the beamformee to get maximum performance and best data transmission rates during communication while avoiding other paths carriers and or sounding channels with weak performance and poor transmission rates.

In some embodiments the sounding process initiation module may initiate the sounding process at a particular sounding interval. The sounding interval may be a pre determined sounding interval or may be dynamically adjusted based on feedback information from the beamformee as discussed below in detail with respect to the sounding interval adjustment module . Initiating the sounding interval at the particular sounding interval means that the sounding process initiation module may initiate a sounding process between a beamformer and a beamformee at the time interval pre set or dynamically set by the sounding interval adjustment module . For example the sounding process initiation module may initiate the sounding process at 100 microseconds as depicted in .

In some embodiments the sounding process initiation module may initiate the sounding process with a beamformee by sending an announcement frame in a sounding environment. For instance the sounding process initiation module may cooperate with the communication module to send the announcement frame as depicted for example in . In some embodiments the announcement frame may be a null data packet NDP announcement frame and may be used to gain control of a sounding channel for data transmission and to identify one or more beamformees present in the sounding environment. The one or more beamformees may then respond to the NDP announcement frame to initiate the sounding process with a beamformer from which the announcement frame was received as further discussed below with respect to the sounding process acknowledgement module .

In some embodiments the main purpose of the NDP announcement frame is to carry a single STA info field for the intended beamformee. The STA info field is two bytes long and consists of three fields as depicted in NDP announcement frame format in and further discussed below 

The data packet generator can be software including routines for generating and transmitting a data packet including training fields to a beamformee. In some embodiments the data packet generator can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the data packet generator can be stored in the memory of the network device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . The data packet generator may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the network device such as the network interface the storage etc.

In some embodiments the data packet generator may generate and transmit a data packet frame to a beamformee upon receiving an acknowledgement of the announcement frame from a beamformee as discussed later below with respect to the sounding process acknowledgement module . The data packet frame may be a null data packet frame as depicted for example in . The reason for the name null data packet should be obvious in looking at the frame. As depicted in the null data packet shows a PLOP frame with no data field so there is no 802.11 MAC frame. In some embodiments channel sounding can be carried out by analyzing training symbols in the PLOP header and therefore no MAC data is required in the null data packet frame. Within the null data packet frame as depicted there is one VHT Long Training Field VHT LTF for each spatial stream used in transmission. This training field may be analyzed to calculate a feedback matrix as discussed in further detail below with respect to the packet processing and feedback module .

The sounding interval adjustment module can be software including routines for dynamically adjusting a sounding interval based on feedback information from a beamformee. In some embodiments the sounding interval adjustment module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the sounding interval adjustment module can be stored in the memory of the network device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . The sounding interval adjustment module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the network device such as the network interface the storage etc.

In some embodiments to initiate a first sounding process with a beamformee the sounding interval adjustment module may set a particular sounding interval and send the sounding interval to the sounding process initiation module to initiate the first sounding process with the beamformee. Depending on the feedback information e.g. feedback matrix received from the beamformee as depicted for example in the sounding interval adjustment module may adjust the sounding interval to initiate a second sounding process with the beamformee at that interval. This sounding interval may be continuously adjusted by the sounding interval adjustment module as long as channel sounding needs to be performed between the beamformer and the beamformee. In some embodiments the sounding interval adjustment module may begin performing its functionality described herein responsive to receiving the feedback matrix from the packet processing and feedback .

In some embodiments the sounding interval adjustment module may adjust a sounding interval responsive to determining a change in beamformee s location in the sounding environment or a change in multipath in the environment. For example as depicted in the sounding interval adjustment module may decrease the sounding interval from 100 microseconds to 80 microseconds based on the beamformee s movement from an old location to a new location. In some embodiments the sounding interval adjustment module may determine the beamformee s change in location based on feedback matrix received from the packet processing and feedback module . For instance the feedback matrix received may include location coordinates of the beamformee describing its current location in the sounding environment and the sounding interval adjustment module may compare this feedback matrix to a previously received feedback matrix to determine whether the location coordinates has been changed. Adjusting the sounding interval based on beamformee s mobility or other change in transmission to the beamformee such as change in multipath in the sounding environment is advantageous as it enables the beamformer to be frequently updated of the beamformee s location and transmit beamformed signals towards the beamformee s correct location to achieve maximum beamforming gains possible.

In some embodiments the sounding interval adjustment module may adjust a sounding interval responsive to determining an increase decrease in airtime per bit value used by a beamformee during a sounding process. For example as depicted in the sounding interval adjustment module may increase the sounding interval from 100 microseconds to 85 microseconds to incorporate the increased 15 microseconds airtime per bit consumed by the beamformee see . In some embodiments the airtime per bit is the time required by the beamformee to analyze each bit of the training field included in the data packet sent by the beamformer as discussed above. In some embodiments the feedback matrix sent by the beamformee may include the airtime per bit information and the sounding interval adjustment module may determine the increase decrease in airtime per bit value by comparing the airtime information in the feedback matrix with airtime information included in a previously received feedback matrix received from the packet processing and feedback module . Adjusting the sounding interval based on airtime consumed by a beamformee during a sounding process is advantageous as it enables a beamformer to initiate a subsequent sounding process with the beamformee at correct sounding interval considering the increase decrease in airtime took by the beamformee during the prior sounding process.

In some embodiments the sounding interval adjustment module may adjust a sounding interval based on a combination of beamformee s location information or change in the multipath and the beamformee s airtime information. As stated above the beamformee s location and airtime information may be included in the feedback matrix sent by the beamformee. In some embodiments the sounding interval adjustment module may increase the sounding interval upon determining the beamformee s location and the airtime per bit value to be static unchanged. This is advantageous as frequent or unnecessary sounding processes with the beamformee may be avoided if the beamformee found to be constant during two or more sounding processes in the sounding environment. In some other embodiments the sounding interval adjustment module may decrease the sounding interval upon finding either of the beamformee s location or change in multipath to the beamformee and or airtime per bit value to be changed as discussed elsewhere herein.

It should be understood that criteria for adjusting the sounding interval is not limited to change in beamformee s location or change in the multipath change in airtime per bit value and or a combination of the two as discussed above and may be based on one or more other criteria. For example the sounding interval adjustment module may adjust a sounding interval based on a type of user and an importance of the user associated with the beamformee client device. By way of another example the sounding interval adjustment module may adjust a sounding interval based type of beamformee client device whether the client device is a tablet a smartphone a desktop a laptop etc. . By way of yet another example the sounding interval adjustment module may adjust the sounding interval based on amount of traffic such as data packets exchanged between a beamformer and a beamformee. Yet another example the sounding interval adjustment module may adjust a sounding interval for sounding process with a beamformee based on movement of other beamformee associated with the beamformee in the sounding environment. Other numerous examples and criteria for sound interval adjustment are also possible and contemplated.

The steering matrix computation module can be software including routines for computing a steering matrix to transmit network signals towards a beamformee in a preferred direction. This process of transmission of network signals or energy towards the beamformee in the preferred direction is generally known as beamforming. In some embodiments the steering matrix computation module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the steering matrix computation module can be stored in the memory of the network device and can be accessible and executable by the processor . The steering matrix computation module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the network device such as the network interface the storage etc.

In some embodiments the steering matrix computation module may compute a steering matrix based on a feedback matrix computed at a beamformee. For instance the packet processing and feedback module may compute the feedback matrix at the beamformee and send the feedback matrix to the steering matrix computation module via the communication module . The steering matrix computation module may analyze the feedback matrix and information included in the matrix and may then compute the steering matrix thereon. For instance as discussed elsewhere herein the feedback matrix may include information such as location coordinates of a beamformee multipath information total airtime used by the beamformee airtime per bit used by the beamformee type of user associated with the beamformee type of beamformee amount of traffic exchanged between the beamformer and the beamformee history of traffic exchange etc. and the steering matrix computation module may analyze one or more of this information to compute the steering matrix.

In some embodiments the steering matrix computed by the steering matrix computation module is a mathematical description of how to direct transmitted energy toward a receiver e.g. beamformee client device . In other words the steering matrix may describe how to set up each element e.g. antenna of a beamformer to precisely overlap transmissions to reach farther to a beamformee. Using the steering matrix computed by the steering matrix computation module a beamformer can transmit data packets frames to a beamformee in a particular direction as depicted for example in . As shown in part a without beamforming energy is radiated in all directions more or less equally. However upon applying the steering matrix as shown in part b the beamformer will send energy in a way that prefers one path. On the preferred path transmissions from antenna array of the beamformer may reinforce each other become stronger and higher beamforming gains may be achieved. While on the other paths the transmissions from the antenna array may interfere with each other and become weaker. As a result the combination of the steering matrix and the sounding channel determines whether a signal becomes stronger or weaker.

By way of another example to illustrate the effect of steering matrix in steering transmissions in a particular direction shows a simple phase shift. Part a of the figure depicts that all antenna of a beamformer transmit at the same time. As a result the total transmission radiates in each direction equally i.e. transmissions from each individual array element go out at the same speed at the same time and therefore cover the same distance. Part b of the figure depicts that the array applies a phase shift to each element so that the element on the right transmits first and the element on the left transmits last. As a result the transmissions from the array will converge along a different path that is shifted to the left.

The beamformee engine can be software including routines for acknowledging sounding process with a beamformer and computing feedback information for the beamformer. In some embodiments the beamformee engine can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the beamformee engine can be stored in the memory and can be accessible and executable by the processor . As depicted the beamformee engine may include the sounding process acknowledgement module and the packet processing and feedback module .

The sounding process acknowledgment module can be software including routines for acknowledging sounding process initiation request received from a beamformer. In some embodiments the sounding process acknowledgement module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the sounding process acknowledgement module can be stored in the memory and can be accessible and executable by the processor . The sounding process acknowledgement module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the network device such as the network interface the storage etc.

In some embodiments the sounding process acknowledgement module may begin performing its functionality respective to receiving an announcement frame from the sounding process initiation module as described elsewhere herein. Responsive to receiving the announcement frame at a beamformee e.g. client device the sounding process acknowledgement module may notify a user associated with the beamformee about the announcement frame received from a beamformer and whether to acknowledge that frame. In some embodiments the user associated with the beamformee may analyze the announcement frame to decide whether to acknowledge the frame to the beamformer. In some embodiments acknowledging the announcement frame of the beamformer may include beamformee s approval to initiate a sounding process with the beamformer. Upon receiving the beamformee s acknowledgement of the announcement frame the sounding process acknowledgement module may then send the acknowledgement to the beamformer engine for it to perform its respective acts and or functionalities thereon. In some embodiments the sounding process acknowledgement module may cooperate with the communication module to send the acknowledgement to the beamformer engine .

The packet processing and feedback module can be software including routines for processing one or more data packets received from a beamformer and computing a feedback matrix. In some embodiments the packet processing and feedback module can be a set of instructions executable by the processor to provide the functionality described herein. In some other embodiments the packet processing and feedback module can be stored in the memory and can be accessible and executable by the processor . The packet processing and feedback module may be adapted for cooperation and communication with the processor and other components of the network device such as the network interface the storage etc.

In some embodiments the packet processing and feedback module may begin performing its functionality responsive to receiving a data packet from the beamformer engine . For instance as discussed above with respect to the data generator the data packet may be generated and sent by the data packet generator to the beamformee. The data packet may be a null data packet NDP that includes a long training field including one or more training symbols. The packet processing and feedback module may process this data packet to calculate a feedback matrix. In some embodiments processing the data packet may include analyzing and processing each symbol of the training field included in the data packet and then calculating a feedback matrix based on processing results. In some embodiments the feedback matrix may describe how the one or more training symbols were received in the NDP which may allow the beamformer to know to how to steer network signal or subsequent data frames packets to the beamformee.

In some embodiments the feedback matrix may be just a steering matrix but in a compressed format. The compression may be required because the steering matrix can potentially have quite large dimensions as it represents the channel behavior between each of the transmitters in the beamformer s array and each of the receivers in the beamformee s array. Therefore rather than calculating and transmitting the steering matrix the packet processing and feedback module may calculate a feedback matrix and compress it so that it can be represented by a smaller frame and thus take up less airtime. In some embodiments compression of the steering matrix i.e. the feedback matrix may be accomplished by using matrix operations to send a representative set of values that can be used to reconstitute the steering matrix instead of sending the raw matrix itself.

In some embodiments to calculate the feedback matrix the packet processing and feedback module may go through the following procedure 

In some embodiments the feedback matrix as calculated and compressed using the above procedure may be sometimes referred to as a compressed beamforming report. depicts the format of an example compressed beamforming report frame used in a scenario when a single beamformee is involved. As depicted the VHT Action frame header indicates that the frame contains a feedback matrix. The VHT MIMO Control field included next to VHT Action frame header may enable a beamformer to interpret the feedback matrix by describing the following attributes 

In some embodiments a feedback matrix computed by the packet processing and feedback module and then sent to a beamformer may include information that may enable the beamformer to dynamically adjust a sounding interval and further compute a steering matrix as discussed elsewhere herein. Non limiting examples of information included in the feedback matrix may include location information such as location coordinates of a beamformee describing its current location in the sounding environment change in multipath in the sounding environment airtime information such as total airtime used by the beamformee during a sounding process airtime per bit used by the beamformee during computation of the feedback matrix etc. current transmission rate being used for transmissions to the beamformee current distance of the beamformee from the beamformer packet error rate for packets exchanged between the beamformee and the beamformer channels state information describing current state of the channel i.e. whether the channels is strong weak current load of the channel etc. amount of traffic i.e. frames data packets exchanged between the beamformee and the beamformer virtual access point VAP associated with the beamformee type of user associated with the beamformee type of beamformee i.e. whether the beamformee client device is a tablet smartphone desktop laptop etc. characteristics of data transmitted by the beamformee in the past i.e. whether the data transmitted by the beamformee is a high priority data or low priority data etc.

Additional structure acts and or functionality of the one or more components of the channel sounding application including the communication module the beamformer engine including the sounding process initiation module the data packet generator the sounding interval adjustment module and the steering matrix computation module and the beamformee engine including the sounding process acknowledgement module and the packet processing and feedback module are further discussed below with respect to the example process depicted in .

Once the sounding process initiation module receives the acknowledgment of the announcement frame from the client device the data packet generator may generate a null data packet including training fields and may send the data packet via the communication module to the client device. The packet processing and feedback module of the beamformee engine may then analyze the training fields in the data packet and calculate a feedback matrix. The feedback matrix may include without limitation metrics describing overall quality of the sounding channel on which the client device and the network device are communicating location coordinates describing the current location and any past locations of the client device signal information indicating multipath to the client device total airtime used by the client device for analyzing the training fields and calculating the matrix type of client device type of user associated with the client device total packets exchanged between the network and the client device etc. Once the packet processing and feedback module calculates the feedback matrix in block the packet processing and feedback module may then send the feedback matrix via the communication module to the network device.

Next the sounding interval adjustment module of the beamformer engine may analyze the feedback matrix See and determine whether the location of the client device has been changed or multipath to the client device has changed . For example as stated above the feedback matrix may include location coordinates describing the current and any past locations of the client device and the sounding interval adjustment module may analyze the feedback matrix for this information to determine in block whether the location of the client device has been changed or multipath to the client device has changed. If the result of the determination in block is affirmative the sounding interval adjustment module may decrease the sounding interval e.g. 100 microseconds to 80 microseconds to perform subsequent sounding process with the client device more frequently. If on the other hand the result of the determination in block is negative then the sounding interval adjustment module may keep the sounding interval unchanged.

Next the sounding interval adjustment module of the beamformer engine may analyze the feedback matrix See and determine a total airtime consumed by the client device using the sounding process. For example the feedback matrix received from the client device may include a total airtime per bit used by the beamformee engine during the operation in block and the sounding interval adjustment module may analyze the feedback matrix to perform its determination in block . The sounding interval adjustment module may then compare the total airtime with a certain threshold. By way of example the total airtime used by the client device may be 55 microseconds and the sounding interval adjustment module may determine whether that airtime i.e. 55 microseconds is greater less than a threshold airtime e.g. 50 microseconds . The sounding interval adjustment module may then determine in block whether the total airtime exceeds the certain threshold based on the comparison in block . If the result of the determination in block is negative then the sounding interval adjustment module may keep the sounding interval as unchanged.

If on the other hand the result of the determination in block is affirmative then the sounding interval adjustment module may track airtime per bit that is used by the client device during analyzing the training fields and calculating the feedback matrix in block . Responsive to tracking the sounding adjustment interval module may determine as to whether the airtime per bit is changed. If the airtime per bit is changed see block in then the sounding interval adjustment module may dynamically adjust the sounding interval as set in block to incorporate the change in airtime per bit. By way of example if the airtime per bit is increased by 15 microseconds and let s say the sounding interval was set to 100 microseconds in block then the sounding interval adjustment module may scale up the set sounding interval to 115 microseconds. Continuing this example if on the other hand the airtime per bit is determined to be decreased by 15 microseconds then the sounding interval adjustment module may scale down the set sounding interval to 85 microseconds.

If the result of the determination in block is negative then the sounding interval adjustment module may determine whether the location of the client device has been changed or the multipath to the client device has changed. For example as stated above with respect to the feedback matrix may include location coordinates describing the current and any past locations of the client device and the sounding interval adjustment module may analyze the feedback matrix for this information to determine in block whether the location of the client device has been changed or the multipath to the client device has changed. If the result of the determination in block is affirmative then the sounding interval adjustment module may scale down the sounding interval e.g. 100 microseconds to 80 microseconds . If on the other hand the result of the determination in block is negative then the sounding interval adjustment module may scale up the sounding interval e.g. 100 microseconds to 110 microseconds .

It should be understood that dynamically adjusting the sounding interval is not limited to the factors stated in the process and may be based on other numerous factors for sounding interval adjustment. For example the sounding interval may be adjustment based on current transmission rate being used for transmissions to the client device current distance of the client device from the network device packet error rate for packets exchanged between the client device and the network device channels state information describing current state of the channel i.e. whether the channels is strong weak current load of the channel etc. virtual access point VAP associated with the client device characteristics of data transmitted by the client device i.e. whether the data transmitted by the beamformee is a high priority data or low priority data number of client devices associated with the network device for transmission etc. In some embodiments the operations in the blocks may be performed by the sounding interval adjustment module .

The present disclosure may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present disclosure may be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems coupled to a network. A typical combination of hardware and software may be an access point with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the device such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present disclosure also may be embedded in non transitory fashion in a computer readable storage medium e.g. a programmable circuit a semiconductor memory such as a volatile memory such as random access memory RAM or non volatile memory such as read only memory power backed RAM flash memory phase change memory or the like a hard disk drive an optical disc drive or any connector for receiving a portable memory device such as a Universal Serial Bus USB flash drive which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

As used herein digital device generally includes a device that is adapted to transmit and or receive signaling and to process information within such signaling such as a station e.g. any data processing equipment such as a computer cellular phone personal digital assistant tablet devices etc. an access point data transfer devices such as network switches routers controllers etc. or the like.

As used herein access point AP generally refers to receiving points for any known or convenient wireless access technology which may later become known. Specifically the term AP is not intended to be limited to IEEE 802.11 based APs. APs generally function as an electronic device that is adapted to allow wireless devices to connect to a wired network via various communications standards.

As used herein the term interconnect or used descriptively as interconnected is generally defined as a communication pathway established over an information carrying medium. The interconnect may be a wired interconnect wherein the medium is a physical medium e.g. electrical wire optical fiber cable bus traces etc. a wireless interconnect e.g. air in combination with wireless signaling technology or a combination of these technologies.

As used herein information is generally defined as data address control management e.g. statistics or any combination thereof. For transmission information may be transmitted as a message namely a collection of bits in a predetermined format. One type of message namely a wireless message includes a header and payload data having a predetermined number of bits of information. The wireless message may be placed in a format as one or more packets frames or cells.

As used herein wireless local area network WLAN generally refers to a communications network links two or more devices using some wireless distribution method for example spread spectrum or orthogonal frequency division multiplexing radio and usually providing a connection through an access point to the Internet and thus providing users with the mobility to move around within a local coverage area and still stay connected to the network.

As used herein the term mechanism generally refers to a component of a system or device to serve one or more functions including but not limited to software components electronic components electrical components mechanical components electro mechanical components etc.

As used herein the term embodiment generally refers an embodiment that serves to illustrate by way of example but not limitation.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the foregoing discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms including processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

The particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the specification or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the disclosure can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the specification is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of ordinary skill in the art of computer programming.

It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that the preceding examples and embodiments are example and not limiting to the scope of the present disclosure. It is intended that all permutations enhancements equivalents and improvements thereto that are apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings are included within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims include all such modifications permutations and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

While the present disclosure has been described in terms of various embodiments the present disclosure should not be limited to only those embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Likewise where a reference to a standard is made in the present disclosure the reference is generally made to the current version of the standard as applicable to the disclosed technology area. However the described embodiments may be practiced under subsequent development of the standard within the spirit and scope of the description and appended claims. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting.

