---

title: Automated communication techniques
abstract: Various technologies and techniques are disclosed for providing an autoresponder that allows subscribers to opt-in to one or more autoresponder campaigns using their spoken voice. Voice input is received from a subscriber and converted to text. The subscriber is added to at least one campaign. A contact communication identifier is stored in a subscriber contact record from the text that was converted from the voice input. One or more messages are sent to the subscriber using the contact communication identifier, and according to a schedule specified in the campaign. A virtual seminar playback system is described that simulates a live virtual seminar and allows subscribers to access a playback of a media recording over a communication connection at a specified time. An autoresponder system is described that delivers messages to subscribers in multiple available formats, based upon selections received by the subscribers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09311918&OS=09311918&RS=09311918
owner: The Pulse Network Inc.
number: 09311918
owner_city: Norwood
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140320
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 703 171 filed Feb. 9 2010 and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 151 232 filed Feb. 10 2009 which applications are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

In today s world of technology companies can broadcast messages to volumes of subscribers in an automated way yet in a way that is personalized. For example many companies use an autoresponder series to allow subscribers to opt in to a message sequence to receive free training and or product offers that are being made by the company or its affiliates. If a company had to manually type up an email to send it to each subscriber it would be time prohibitive. Autoresponders were created to automate this process of follow up with subscribers by email.

To setup an autoresponder an administrator simply creates one or more messages that need to be sent to people who subscribe to it and specify the schedule for when those messages should be sent. The autoresponder is then associated with one or more subscriber lists so that when a customer or prospect opts in to a particular subscriber list they receive the messages that were specified in the autoresponder series.

As technology has continued to advance people have also continued to evolve in the way in which they work and play. Many people use their mobile phone or other mobile device for checking email and or surfing the internet. Some people like talking on the phone more than using email while others love SMS text messages. There is another segment that still likes to use faxes too. Existing autoresponder systems rely on email as the primary method of communication without taking these changing user preferences into consideration.

Various technologies and techniques are disclosed for providing an autoresponder that allows subscribers to opt in to one or more autoresponder campaigns using their spoken voice. Voice input is received from a subscriber. The voice input is converted to text. The subscriber is added to at least one campaign. At least one contact communication identifier email phone etc. is stored in a subscriber contact record. At least one contact communication identifier is obtained from the text that was converted from the voice input. One or more messages are sent to the subscriber using the contact communication identifier and according to a schedule specified in the campaign s .

In another implementation a virtual seminar playback system and techniques are described. A virtual seminar playback module is operable to allow subscribers to access a playback of a media recording over a communication connection with the playback being scheduled to begin at a specific start time and last for a specific duration. The virtual seminar playback module is further operable to ensure that when a particular one of the subscribers accesses the playback at a point in time that is after the specific start time but before the playback has passed the specific duration the media recording is delivered to the particular one of the subscribers starting at a point in the media recording that corresponds to a delay interval. In one implementation a virtual seminar follow up module is operable to send follow up messages to subscribers based upon the actions they took during the virtual seminar.

In yet another implementation techniques and systems are described for providing autoresponder campaigns in multiple formats. The autoresponder is operable to store message s that are part of an autoresponder campaign in multiple available formats such as the same message being stored in formats suitable for sending by email voice broadcast voice broadcast by email text message and or fax to name a few non limiting examples. A request is received to subscribe to one or more autoresponder campaigns. The request is received from a device that has been operated by a subscriber and the request specifies one or more formats in which the subscriber wishes to be notified. The specified format s was selected by the subscriber from the multiple available formats. The subscriber is added to the autoresponder campaign. The message s for the autoresponder campaign is sent to the subscriber in the formats that were selected by the subscriber. In another implementation some of the available formats that are offered to subscribers are generated programmatically from one of the other formats that was created or uploaded by a user. As one non limiting example an email format can be converted into a voice broadcast using text to speech translation.

This Summary was provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The technologies and techniques herein may be described in the general context as an autoresponder application but the technologies and techniques also serve other purposes in addition to these. In one implementation one or more of the techniques described herein can be implemented as features within an autoresponder program such as those offered by AWeber 1ShoppingCart Infusionsoft or iContact or from any other type of program or service that manages automated communications to subscribers. In another implementation one or more of the techniques described herein are implemented as features within voice broadcasting and or SMS text broadcasting applications.

In one implementation an autoresponder is described. The term autoresponder as used herein is meant to include a technique for transmitting one or more messages to a group of one or more people in an automated fashion. Subscribers can sign up to receive one or more messages in an autoresponder series such as through a voice broadcast email SMS text message etc.

In the case of a voice broadcast subscribers then receive the messages in the autoresponder series at the scheduled times through a voice broadcast that is sent to their specified telephone number. The term voice broadcast as used herein is meant to include an audio file or communication that is played or otherwise communicated to telephones or telephony devices that are associated with a select one or more subscribers. The voice broadcast can be played while a human is on the phone and in some cases when a human does not answer the phone the voice broadcast is left as a voicemail in the voicemail box that is associated with the phone.

In another implementation an autoresponder is described that allows subscribers to receive messages in one or more of a variety of formats based upon the individual preferences of the subscriber. Some non limiting examples of formats in which subscribers may receive messages include voice broadcast email voice broadcast by email fax and SMS text message to name a few.

In yet another implementation a virtual seminar playback system is described that allows subscribers to join at the specified time and that simulates a live virtual seminar. The term virtual seminar as used herein is meant to include various types of seminars that are delivered over communication connections versus in person . A few non limiting examples of a virtual seminar can include a teleseminar that is conducted over a telephone or other communication connection a webinar that is delivered over an Internet connection a webinar that is delivered over an Internet and telephone connection in combination etc. The term live virtual seminar is referring to a virtual seminar that is being delivered in real time with one or more presenters speaking or other information being delivered virtually. By simulating a live virtual seminar subscribers are given the impression that the presenter or other information is actually being delivered at that moment as opposed to being played back from a recording of a prior occurrence when it actually happened. In one implementation of virtual seminar playback system follow up messages can be sent to subscribers through an autoresponder based upon their level of participation in a particular playback that they had signed up for.

As shown in an autoresponder system is described. Autoresponder system includes an autoresponder and one or more subscriber phones A and B referred to collectively herein as subscriber phones . Autoresponder is coupled to subscriber phones over one or more packet switched telephone networks PSTN and or voice over internet protocol VOIP network s .

Autoresponder has several modules such as campaign module subscriber module outbound broadcast module inbound processing module tracking module virtual seminar module and other module s . In one implementation one or more features provided by modules of autoresponder can be accessed by one or more users having proper access levels to the associated functionality.

Campaign module is responsible for managing campaigns that contain an autoresponder series of one or more messages. The messages associated with one or more campaigns can later be broadcast to subscribers of the autoresponder series on a scheduled basis by the outbound broadcast module as described momentarily. Subscriber module is responsible for managing one or more subscribers to one or more of the campaigns. The subscriber module allows new subscribers to be added updates to be made to data associated with existing subscribers and existing subscribers to be deleted or unsubscribed.

Outbound broadcast module is responsible for sending out message broadcasts to one or more subscribers on a scheduled basis. Outbound broadcast module can send out messages to subscribers in one or more formats such as voice broadcast A voice broadcast by email B email C SMS text message D fax or other image E and or in a physically printed document F to name a few non limiting examples.

Any one or more of these message formats A F can contain various types of information just as a typical text based autoresponder message might include. For example in the case of a voice broadcast A it could include information such as free training on one or more topics a special offer or discount to a product or service information that the subscriber requested about a product or service etc.

A voice broadcast A that gets distributed to subscribers by outbound broadcast module can be captured in an audio file in one of a variety of ways. As one non limiting example a voice broadcast gets sent out to one or more subscribers by playing an audio file that was previously recorded over a telephone captured in a voicemail and then saved to an audio file. In other words an administrator or other user with permission to manage the messages that get sent to the subscribers can dial into a specified phone number and leave a voice message. That saved voice message is then captured or otherwise converted to an audio file format. That saved voice message is then assigned as a voice broadcast for an autoresponder series of a particular campaign that is managed by campaign module .

As another non limiting example outbound broadcast module can send out the one or more voice broadcasts A by playing an audio file that has been recorded using a recording device and uploaded to the campaign module . Examples of such recording devices can include a computer video camera tape recorder Dictaphone or any other device that is capable of capturing the spoken word and saving it into an audio format that can then be uploaded on a computer.

In the case of voice broadcast by email B outbound broadcast module can take the audio file that was captured for the voice broadcast A and just email it to the subscriber at the specified email address. Alternatively or additionally a separate audio file could be uploaded for attaching to an email. In the case of email C outbound broadcast module can send the message in the format of an email using traditional email technologies. And in the case of SMS text message D outbound broadcast module can send the message in the format of an SMS text message using currently available SMS text messaging technologies.

For fax images E outbound broadcast module can transmit the fax over a telephone fax line using a computer that is capable of transmitting faxes or image documents or through an email service that is capable of transmitting images as faxes or attachments. In the case of printed documents F outbound broadcast module can send a signal to a network printed to queue the documents can submit a specification file to a fulfillment center for processing and or can otherwise queue the printed documents for later processing.

Inbound processing module is responsible for receiving an incoming communication from a particular one of the subscribers and taking an action based upon an action specified by the particular subscriber such as signing up the subscriber to one or more follow up campaigns to provide the requested information to the subscriber. For example the subscriber can sign up for one or more campaigns and or otherwise request information using a web form A on a web site by voice B by voice that is submitted as an attachment to an email C by email D through an SMS text message E or by fax image F.

Once inbound processing module receives the request for information from the subscriber the subscriber is then provided with the information that is requested. In some cases this will involve adding the subscriber to one or more campaigns that then follow up with the requested information in the one or more formats that the subscriber requested to receive that information in such as email and voice broadcast etc. 

In one implementation the input that can be received by inbound processing module is not just limited to signing up a subscriber to one or more campaigns. As one non limiting example while playing a voice broadcast message when a particular subscriber presses one or more keys on a telephone device that have been associated with an unsubscribe command then inbound processing module can receive the command and unsubscribe the particular subscriber from one or more campaigns.

As another non limiting example while playing a voice broadcast message when the particular subscriber presses one or more keys on a telephone device that have been associated with a live operator command the inbound processing module can receive the command and forward the incoming call to a live operator. As yet another non limiting example when the subscriber presses one or more keys on a telephone device that are associated with a leave message command the inbound processing module can receive the command and allow the particular subscriber to leave a voicemail for customer service or another party.

In another implementation the subscriber can call a particular phone number and or extension to subscribe to an autoresponder series of a particular campaign. As one non limiting example each of the campaigns managed by campaign module can be assigned a unique telephone number and or extension that can be used by the inbound processing module to determine a particular one of the campaigns that the subscriber wants to join.

When inbound processing module receives a subscribe command after the subscriber presses one or more keys associated with a subscribe command on the telephone device the inbound processing module can then add that subscriber to the campaign that is associated with the particular phone number or extension that was dialed by the subscriber.

Alternatively or additionally inbound processing module can allow a particular one of the subscribers to select an option to subscribe to one or more campaigns through voice input such as by leaving a voice message or otherwise speaking the information. Upon receipt of the voice input A the inbound processing module is operable to have the particular subscriber added to one or more of the campaigns based upon details extracted from the voice message. As one non limiting example the voice message can be programmatically transcribed from a voice format into a text format so that the particular one of the subscribers can be added to the subscriber module as a new subscriber. In other words the subscriber simply leaves a voicemail with his name email or other information and that information is converted from audio into text so that the subscriber can be added to the autoresponder series of a particular campaign. As another non limiting example the voice message can be listened to by a human and the subscriber module can receive input from the human to add the particular subscriber to one or more of the campaigns based upon the information contained in the voice message.

A non limiting example of a fax image F can be a traditional fax that is received over a telephone line. Another non limiting example of a fax image F can be someone s business card that has been scanned and imported into inbound processing module such as directly from a scanning device from an email fax file upload etc. . In one implementation data that is contained in the fax image F can be scanned by a computer to extract sufficient information to determine what campaign or other information the subscriber has requested and to then programmatically add the subscriber to the requested campaigns. In another implementation a human can review the fax image F and update the system appropriately to provide the subscriber with the requested information. This could include adding the subscriber to subscriber module and or adding the subscriber to one or more campaigns in campaign module .

Tracking module is responsible for allowing one or more campaign managers or other authorized users to view details about one or more of the campaigns and or for generating reports related to that data. Such details that can be accessed regarding the campaigns can include the status of one or more campaigns the number of messages that have been sent to what subscribers the number of subscribers that have unsubscribed to the messages the number of messages that could not be delivered by the voice broadcast or other specified method etc.

Virtual seminar module is operable to deliver virtual seminars to one or more subscribers of subscriber module as desired. An exemplary implementation of virtual seminar module is described in further detail in .

In one implementation autoresponder is coupled to one or more subscriber computing devices A and B referred to collectively herein as subscriber computing devices over one or more network s . In such an implementation subscriber computing devices can receive one or more messages from autoresponder such as an email a voice broadcast sent by email etc. and or can manage one or more subscriber settings for autoresponder .

In yet another implementation voice autoresponder system includes an application programming interface which allows one or more external systems to integrate with and or otherwise access one or more features of autoresponder programmatically.

Turning now to the stages for implementing one or more implementations of autoresponder are described in further detail. In some implementations the processes of are at least partially implemented in the operating logic of computing device of . are simulated screens that demonstrate some exemplary implementations for autoresponder system . demonstrate some exemplary implementations for a virtual seminar playback system. demonstrate some implementations of autoresponders that support the distribution of messages in multiple formats.

In one implementation the voice input is saved into an audio file after or as it is being received from the subscriber and the voice input is then performed by extracting text from the audio file through an automated speech to text translation process. In another implementation the speech to text translation happens interactively as the subscriber speaks the information. In such an implementation confirmation can be requested from the subscriber to have the subscriber confirm that an accurate translation has been made of the voice input. In other words the system can let the subscriber know what information it extracted and ask the subscriber to verify if that information was speech to text translation correctly understood the subscriber s voice.

The subscriber is then added to one or more autoresponder campaigns based upon information contained in the voice input stage . The contact communication identifier s and or other details for the subscriber are stored in the subscriber contact record stage . The contact communication identifier s are the contact numbers details for the subscriber such as email address home phone number work phone number cell phone number or any other means that the subscriber has requested be used to contact the subscriber.

One or more messages are then sent to the subscriber according to the campaign schedule stage using at least one of the contact communication identifiers that the subscriber provided or that was programmatically determined by an interaction the subscriber had with the system .

Turning now to a process flow diagram for one implementation is shown that illustrates the stages involved in performing a validation test on the information that was translated from the voice input. A validation test is performed to determine if the contact communication identifier is valid stage . As one non limiting example if the subscriber provided his her email then a test email message can be sent to that address to ensure that the system captured the information correctly and or that it is a valid address in general . If the subscriber provided his her cell phone number then a test can be sent in the form of an SMS text message to ensure that the number is valid and or was received accurately.

If the test fails decision point then an error message can be sent to a user of the autoresponder system such as a customer support representative to correct the contact communication identifier for the subscriber i.e. to fix any typos and or other issues there may be with it . If the test did not fail decision point then the messages are sent to the subscriber at that contact communication identifier as scheduled stage .

Once a response is received to the follow up question stage the response is stored in one or more data fields of the subscriber contact record stage . In the case of the web site hypothetical if the subscriber actually replies back with the web site then it can be stored in a web site field on the subscriber record as just one non limiting example.

Once retrieved one or more portions of the supplemental information can then be stored in the subscriber contact record for later use stage . Once obtained this supplemental information can be used for various purposes such as to determine which types of campaigns to add the subscriber to stage .

The outbound caller ID number can also be specified. This indicates what number should be displayed on the caller ID of the subscriber s phone when the voice broadcast is sent to the subscriber. A transfer to live operator option is also shown which enables the subscriber to reach a live operator either automatically or by pressing the 1 key in this example . When live operator option is selected a phone number that the call should be transferred to can also be specified . In other words the phone number associated with the live operator can be specified when the transfer to live operator option is used. In this example options are provided for transferring the call automatically or only when the subscriber selects an option to reach an operator.

Another option displayed on simulated screen is the ability to have voicemail transcripts to be sent to one or more email addresses . For example when attach audio file is selected the email address will receive an email that contains an audio file of the voicemail that the subscriber left when they were subscribing to this campaign or attempting to do so . When errors are detected having this audio file can be a very helpful way of correcting any speech to text translations that may not have been done correctly.

Continuing with some additional exemplary options that can be specified for a new campaign are displayed on simulated screen . An email address can be specified for receiving SMS text message replies . Custom fields can also be specified such as to capture additional data elements from the subscribers that are appropriate for the particular campaign. When the enable KDA option is checked for a particular custom field then keyword density analysis can be utilized. Keyword density analysis means that the responses that are provided by subscribers can be tracked and analyzed in the aggregate to determine which key words are commonly appearing. This analysis can help identify areas that new content or help should be offered to subscribers.

An option can also be specified to what campaign the subscriber should be added to if they leave a voicemail. Another option can be specified regarding what campaign if any the subscriber should be removed from when they join the campaign. As another option if the recipient speaks their email address when leaving a voicemail they can be subscribed to the autoresponder specified in autoresponder email address .

Continuing with simulated screen illustrates some additional options for the new campaign. For example a welcome email can be sent when indicated and with the specified welcome message . An email notification can be sent if the recipient selects an option to be removed. Subscription by email option can be selected when subscribers can join this campaign by email. To join by email subscribers can email the specified email address that is associated with the campaign.

An audio file to be used for incoming calls can be specified. This is the audio file that the subscriber hears when they call the number to join the campaign. In one implementation virtual seminar option can be specified to indicate whether or not this campaign is to be treated as a virtual seminar such as a teleseminar or webinar. Upon pressing the save option the new campaign is saved to the system.

Other details including the name of the campaign and its status are also displayed. Subscriber data and options are also displayed such as the number of subscribers an option to view a list of those subscribers add a new subscriber import subscribers and an option to scrub the subscriber list against a do not call list. The scrub against a do not call list is described in more detail in . The number of voice broadcast messages and SMS text messages in the particular campaign is displayed along with an option to create a new voice message or new SMS text message for that campaign. A list of existing voice and SMS text messages in the campaign are also listed along with options for editing deleting or copying the message. These are just a few examples of the types of tracking and or management of one or more campaigns that can be offered.

If the option to allow replies to SMS is checked then various options are enabled to allow additional follow up messages to be sent as well. For example a particular field in the subscriber contact record can be populated with a response that is received from the subscriber to one of the questions. A resend option can be specified if the message should be re sent. An option to indicate whether numeric replies are expected is also provided. Numeric replies enable quizzes and other types of polls to be performed and tallied based upon numeric responses. An option is provided to allow another follow up message to be sent by SMS text message if the first response is received. Another option provided on simulated screen is an option that specifies whether or not the SMS text message s should be sent to existing subscribers of the particular campaign or just added to the message sequence.

Turning now to a simulated screen is shown for one implementation that illustrates details about existing campaigns including the newly added SMS text message that was created based upon the example in . Details about the newly added SMS text message are shown such as the text of the original SMS text message and the follow up text message .

Continuing with simulated screen provides an option to allow the user to upload an existing audio file as an alternative to recording the message by leaving a voicemail . Once uploaded the audio file will be displayed in field .

Turning now to simulated screens are shown for one implementation that illustrate editing a message such as a voice broadcast message of an existing campaign. In other words once a voice broadcast message has been created such as using screens that message can be further edited at a later time. Beginning with simulated screen of the campaign name is displayed along with other details about when the message will be sent. The details about how to record the voice broadcast by leaving a voicemail are also displayed. Continuing with simulated screen displays the files that have been previously uploaded as the live answer audio file and the answering machine audio file are also displayed. From this screen the user can listen to the existing voice broadcast and or upload a new audio file to be used for the broadcast. Once the user is happy with the voice broadcast the changes can be saved so that they take effect for future voice broadcasts that are sent out.

Turning now to some example implementations are shown of autoresponder system that allow for creation and or allocation of telephone numbers for use with campaigns. offer just a few non limiting examples and any other suitable manner of creating and or editing phone numbers for use with one or more autoresponder campaigns could also be used in other implementations.

Turning now to a simulated screen for one implementation is shown that illustrates a new phone number having been allocated in the specified area code . The phone numbers list also shows other options such as an option to add a new toll free number an option to add a new incoming phone number in your area code and an option to add a new caller ID number that you can call from . The new number that was just allocated is also displayed in the list and can be edited as desired.

As shown in simulated screen of the newly created campaign that uses the newly added phone number can now track calls through the campaign and other details . For example a new phone number can be allocated and then used by a particular campaign for a particular marketing promotion you are running so you can see how many calls were generated by that campaign. The calls can still be routed to another number as desired but by using the allocated phone number that is assigned to the campaign you can track a lot of useful details about the campaign. This is just one of many examples of how the phone number allocation feature could be used with autoresponder system .

Turning now to a virtual seminar playback system is described. In one implementation virtual seminar playback system is part of autoresponder system . In another implementation virtual seminar playback system can operate independently of autoresponder system .

Virtual seminar playback module allows the playback to be scheduled to begin at a specific start time and last for a specific duration. The virtual seminar playback module ensures that when a particular one of the subscribers accesses the playback at a point in time that is after the specific start time but before the playback has passed the specific duration the media recording is delivered to the particular one of the subscribers starting at a point in the media recording that corresponds to a delay interval.

In other words virtual seminar playback module is responsible for calculating the delay interval and then transmitting the playback data for the media recording at a corresponding point in the media recording that corresponds to the delay interval. The term delay interval as used herein is meant to include an amount of time after a scheduled start time. In one implementation the delay interval is calculated by determining how late the subscriber accessed joined the virtual seminar after the scheduled start time and then using that amount of time as the delay interval. In such an implementation if the subscriber joined 5 minutes after the scheduled start time the delay interval would be 5 minutes and they would start receiving the contents of the virtual seminar that is contained at the timestamp of 5 minutes within the media recording. In other implementations the delay interval may not correspond identically to the amount of time that the subscriber joined after the start time. For example the delay interval could be some number greater or less than the amount of time that the subscriber delayed in accessing the virtual seminar after the specified start time. The delay interval could be calculated based upon a number of factors or logic.

In some implementations additional steps need to be taken to initiate the playback at the delay interval such as when the media recording and or the technology that is used to handle its playback are not able to advance to a specific point in time in the recording based upon the delay interval. In such implementations different versions of the media recording can be generated and or stored that contain different portions of the playback. As one non limiting example one version of the file may contain the entire recording while another version of the file may have content that starts 1 minute late and is thus missing the first minute of the entire recording etc. Here is a non limiting example of how these files could be used in such a scenario. When a particular subscriber joins one minute late the version of the media recording that has been shortened by one minute could be delivered to the subscriber since the subscriber had joined one minute late.

In one implementation a virtual seminar follow up module is included and is operable to send follow up messages to subscribers based upon the actions they took during the virtual seminar. As one non limiting example for any subscribers who had signed up for the virtual seminar but who joined after the scheduled start time i.e. late virtual seminar follow up module could send them a certain type of follow up message s such as an email that can be accessed by subscriber from subscriber computing device A or B over network . As another non limiting example for any subscribers who had signed up for the virtual seminar but who did not join at all virtual seminar follow up module could send them another type of follow up message s . In one implementation virtual seminar playback system contains an API that allows external systems to make use of functionality offered by virtual seminar playback system . includes additional illustrations of how virtual seminar playback system could be used.

In simulated screen there are various options that can be specified for the virtual seminar playback. For example the media file to use for incoming calls before the virtual seminar starts can be specified or can be listened to by selecting the listen option . The frequency of the virtual seminar can be specified such as whether this is a one time or recurring teleseminar and or a one time or recurring webinar. The virtual seminar date time duration and or an option for specifying when the virtual seminar channel lines should open can be selected. In this example the duration of the virtual seminar will be the duration that the media recording for the main part of the virtual seminar lasts. And the time specifying when the virtual seminar channel lines should open indicates at what point subscribers are allowed to access join the virtual seminar.

One or more follow up messages can be sent by virtual seminar follow up module as discussed in . Options and allow the user to specify different campaigns that users who do not attend who arrive late who left early and or who completed the virtual seminar should receive. These are just a few non limiting examples of the types of follow up messages that can be sent to subscribers based upon their actions.

A pre seminar media recording can also be uploaded or otherwise specified. An option to listen to or watch the pre seminar media recording is also provided. The pre seminar media recording is what gets played after the lines channels for the virtual seminar have been opened but before the main part of the virtual seminar begins. For example this could be introduction by the speaker that says Hey it s Mike and we re going to wait a few more minutes until the seminar is supposed to start. But I just wanted to let everyone know that I m here and excited to talk with you . In one implementation the pre seminar media recording can be set to loop multiple times until the virtual seminar actually begins.

The virtual seminar media recording can also be uploaded or otherwise specified. An option to listen to or watch the virtual seminar media recording is also provided. The virtual seminar media recording is the file that contains the main part of the virtual seminar. In some implementations the preseminar media recording and the virtual seminar media recording can be the same file.

Once the virtual seminar settings have been specified as desired the user can select the save option to create and or update the virtual seminar. Once the virtual seminar has been created subscribers can access the virtual seminar at the scheduled time over the using the specified connection information. For example in the case of a teleseminar subscribers can dial the assigned telephone number and optional access code depending on the specific implementation and listen to the virtual seminar at the scheduled time. In the case of a webinar subscribers can access the web site with a dedicated URL or access code that is designed for the webinar and or can dial in by telephone depending on the webinar implementation.

Turning now to some implementations of autoresponders are described that support the distribution of messages in multiple formats.

The subscriber can also choose to receive the messages in multiple formats if desired such as voice broadcast and email or voice broadcast and email with broadcast or SMS text message and email etc. When the subscriber has requested to receive the message in multiple formats different formats of the message are retrieved for the campaign and then sent in the formats requested by the subscriber. Numerous other variations and or formats could also be used in other implementations instead of or in addition to these examples. The stages of sending messages to a subscriber in one or more of the available formats can be repeated for multiple subscribers stage .

As another non limiting example a fax can programmatically be generated from an email text format by generating an image that contains some of the text and or other formatting as desired.

In one implementation the programmatically generated format gets generated one time and then saved as part of the available message formats until another change is made that would impact that programmatically generated format. In another implementation the programmatically generated format is just generated at the moment a message needs to be sent to a particular subscriber.

The messages are then sent to the subscriber in the requested formats on a scheduled basis as scheduled for the campaign stage . Some or all of these stages can be repeated for multiple subscribers as appropriate stage .

Turning now to some simulated screens will be used to illustrate the integration of voice broadcasting techniques into an autoresponder that supports multiple message formats. is a simulated screen for one implementation that illustrates adding a new campaign to an autoresponder system. Upon selecting add new option a new campaign can be created.

As shown in an exemplary computer system to use for implementing one or more parts of the system includes a computing device such as computing device . In its most basic configuration computing device typically includes at least one processing unit and memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device memory may be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. This most basic configuration is illustrated in by dashed line .

Additionally device may also have additional features functionality. For example device may also include additional storage removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer storage media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Computing device includes one or more communication connections that allow computing device to communicate with other computers applications . Device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. may also be included. These devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here. In one implementation computing device includes one or more portions of autoresponder system and or virtual seminar playback system .

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims. All equivalents changes and modifications that come within the spirit of the implementations as described herein and or by the following claims are desired to be protected.

For example a person of ordinary skill in the computer software art will recognize that the examples discussed herein could be organized differently on one or more computers to include fewer or additional options or features than as portrayed in the examples.

