---

title: Electromechanical latch
abstract: An electromechanical latch is described herein. The electromechanical latch is a dual-actuator latch, wherein a first actuator and a second actuator are driven with precise timing to move a first latch part relative to a second latch part, and vice versa. When the electromechanical latch is in a closed position, the first rotary latch part is positioned to prevent rotation of the second rotary latch part in a first direction. To transition the electromechanical latch from the closed position to an open position, the first actuator drives the first rotary latch part such that the second rotary latch part is able to rotate in the first direction. Thereafter, the second actuator drives the second rotary latch part in the first direction until the electromechanical latch is in the open position.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09518406&OS=09518406&RS=09518406
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09518406
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140320
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 807 234 filed on Apr. 1 2013 and entitled ELECTROMECHANICAL LATCH the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Latches are generally employed to cause an enclosing device such as a door to an enclosure to be closed and securely held in the closed position. Oftentimes such latches are relatively simple mechanical systems wherein the latch can be manually transitioned from an open position to a closed position with little to no security associated therewith. In some situations however it may be desirable to restrict access to an interior region of an enclosure unless a particular condition is satisfied. In an exemplary embodiment a fuse box can be positioned on a factory floor and retained in an enclosure wherein a door to the enclosure can be secured in a closed position through use of a latch. It may be desirable to restrict access to the fuse box to a certified electrician such that the latch cannot be transitioned to an open position unless identity of the electrician is confirmed. For example a keypad may be placed in relative close proximity to the latch and the latch can transition to an open position responsive to the electrician setting forth a proper password through use of the keypad. A circuit associated with the keypad can transmit a signal to the latch responsive to detecting receipt of the proper password and the latch can transition to the open position responsive to receipt of the signal.

Often electromechanical latches such as the type described above require an external power source e.g. to operate the circuit and to drive an actuator that transitions the latch to the open position . In other conventional electromechanical latches batteries can be included therein to power internal circuitry and actuators. Utilization of a battery however can increase the size of an electromechanical latch and further can increase maintenance associated with the electromechanical latch as the battery will periodically need to be replaced.

Still further an environment where an electromechanical latch may desirably be employed can be associated with various influences that may affect operation of the electromechanical latch. Exemplary environmental influences include electric fields vibration humidity heat etc. These influences can negatively impact operation of the electromechanical latch for example an electric field may result in an actuator being powered thus transitioning the electromechanical latch to the open position despite the opening condition being unsatisfied.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to an electromechanical latch. The electromechanical latch is particularly well suited for use in environments with constraints imposed due to conditions existent in the environment. For example the electromechanical latch can be powered based upon signals output by sensor devices such that the electromechanical latch need not be coupled to an external power source or include a battery. The electromechanical latch described herein comprises two independent actuators e.g. DC motors that are configured to move two independent latch parts with relatively precise timing responsive to receipt of a sensor signal or signals that indicates occurrence of a predefined condition. The two actuators are powered driven at precise points in time responsive to receipt of the sensor signal such that the latch parts are moved relative to one another to allow for opening and closing the latch. If the relative timing of operation of the two actuators is incorrect or if only one of the latch parts of the two independent latch parts is moved the latch will not transition from the closed position to the open position. Such configuration can mitigate susceptibility of the latch to inadvertent transitioning from the closed position to the open position in response to stray electrical currents in the latch or its surrounding environment.

When the electromechanical latch is in the open position the electromechanical latch can be held in the open position without requiring the actuators to be powered. Additionally when held in the open position an output stage of the electromechanical latch can be rotated without power needing to be provided to the actuators. Additionally the electromechanical latch can be transitioned from the open position to the closed position responsive to the output stage being subjected to an externally applied force. Thus again the actuators need not be powered when transitioning the electromechanical latch from the open position to the closed position. Once the electromechanical latch has returned to the closed position the electromechanical latch may not be opened unless the two actuators are driven with the precise timing as noted above.

The above summary presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the systems and or methods discussed herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the systems and or methods discussed herein. It is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of such systems and or methods. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various technologies pertaining to an exemplary electromechanical latch are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to an electromechanical latch. An exemplary electromechanical latch described herein is particularly well suited for utilization in environments that have influences that impose constraints in the electromechanical latch. For example the exemplary electromechanical latch is particularly well suited for utilization in environments where the latch may not be coupled to an external source of power for utilization in environments where it is desired that the electromechanical latch be free of a battery in environments associated with electric or magnetic fields humidity vibration temperature fluctuations or other conditions. As will be described herein the exemplary electromechanical latch is a dual actuated latch in that two separate actuators DC motors drive two independent latch parts with precise timing to cause the latch to transition from the closed position to the open position. If the timing of the operation of the motors is incorrect the actuators are not provided with correct power levels or only one latch part is moved the electromechanical latch fails to transition from the closed position to the open position. Once the electromechanical latch is in the open position however the electromechanical latch can remain in the open position for an indefinite amount of time without requiring electrical power. Additionally the electromechanical latch can be transitioned from the open position to the closed position by external forces such that the actuators need not be powered during such transition.

With reference to an isometric view of an exemplary electromechanical latch is illustrated. depicts an exploded view of the electromechanical latch and illustrates an isometric view of the electromechanical latch with springs and pegs removed therefrom. Referring concurrently to the electromechanical latch comprises a first actuator which in an exemplary embodiment may be a first DC motor. A first rotary latch part is driven by the first actuator wherein the first rotary latch part includes a peg that extends therefrom. In an exemplary embodiment the first rotary latch part can be balanced about its rotary axis to minimize or prevent movement in the presence of vibration.

The first actuator is configured to rotate the first rotary latch part in a first direction. The electromechanical latch further comprises a first spring that is coupled to the first rotary latch part wherein the first spring applies a bias torque that opposes rotation of the first rotary latch part in the first direction. As shown in an exemplary embodiment the first spring may be a coiled torsion spring wherein the coiled torsion spring is positioned over at least a portion of the first actuator and at least a portion of the first rotary latch part . In addition the first spring can be coupled to a first stationary peg wherein the first stationary peg can be a portion of a housing not shown that houses the electromechanical latch . Coupling of the first spring to the first stationary peg prevents the first spring from rotating when the first actuator drives the first rotary latch part and causes the first spring to exert a torque on the first rotary latch part .

The electromechanical latch further includes a second actuator wherein the second actuator may be a second DC motor. A drive pinion is driven by the second actuator . The electromechanical latch further comprises a second rotary latch part that is driven by the second actuator by way of the drive pinion . The second rotary latch part can be balanced about its rotary axis to minimize or prevent movement in the presence of vibration. The second rotary latch part comprises a plurality of teeth wherein teeth of the second rotary latch part mate with teeth of the drive pinion . The second rotary latch part has a proximal side and a distal side . The proximal side of the second rotary latch part includes a raised cam . The raised cam includes a detent wherein the detent comprises a closed detent formed as a hooked mating region and an open detent formed as a ramped mating region . The raised cam further comprises a recess and a peg that extends from the proximal side of the second rotary latch part is positioned in such recess. A second spring is coupled to the peg on the second rotary latch part and a second stationary peg wherein the second spring applies a bias torque in a direction that opposes the direction of the second rotary latch part when driven by the second actuator . In an exemplary embodiment the second spring can be a coiled torsion spring. It can be ascertained that a force exerted by the second actuator must exceed the bias torque applied on the second rotary latch part by the spring for the second rotary latch part to rotate. The second stationary peg like the first stationary peg may be a portion of a housing that houses the electromechanical latch .

A stop peg extends from the proximal side of the electromechanical latch . As will be described in greater detail below the stop peg can be configured to contact a mechanical stop of the housing when rotated in either direction. The distal side of the electromechanical latch includes an output stage that rotates with the second rotary latch part . In an example the output stage can act as an engagement mechanism that engages a latch bar when the electromechanical latch is in the open position and disengages the latch bar when the electromechanical latch is in the closed position. Thus when the electromechanical latch is in the open position the output stage can engage a latch bar and the latch bar can be moved e.g. to a position where a door to an enclosure can be opened . When the door is closed and the latch bar is repositioned to hold the door in place the output stage can disengage the latch bar.

The electromechanical latch also includes a shaft about which the second rotary latch part can rotate. Bearings and can be positioned on the shaft . Generally the electromechanical latch is transitioned from the closed position to the open position when the shaft and thus the second rotary latch part is rotated in a clockwise direction when the second rotary latch part is viewed from the proximal side from a fixed point. As will be shown and described in greater detail below however the peg extending from the first rotary latch part prevents the second rotary latch part from rotating in the clockwise direction unless the peg is clear of the closed detent of the raised cam .

With more particularity the first actuator and the second actuator can operate with precise timing responsive to receipt of a sensor signal or signals to cause the electromechanical latch to transition from the closed position to the open position. Such transition occurs by moving the peg of the first rotary latch part such that the peg is clear of the closed detent and rotating the second rotary latch part to allow the peg to rest on the open detent of the raised cam . For example initially the first rotary latch part can be positioned such that the peg is in the hooked mating region the closed detent thus preventing rotation of the second rotary latch part in the clockwise direction. Thus if the second rotary latch part begins to rotate in a first direction the direction required to open the latch before the first rotary latch part is caused to rotate to clear the closed detent then the forces between the first rotary latch part and the second rotary latch part prevent the first rotary latch part from moving thus keeping the latch in the closed position .

When for example a sensor signal is received that indicates that the electromechanical latch is to transition from the closed position to the open position the first actuator can rotate the first rotary latch part against the bias torque set forth by the first spring thereby rotating the peg out of the hooked mating region closed detent of the detent . When the peg is positioned to be clear of the closed detent the second actuator is powered thus causing the second actuator to drive the drive pinion in a counterclockwise direction and the second rotary latch part in the clockwise direction. A threshold amount of time after the first actuator is initially provided with electrical power power is ceased to be provided to the first actuator . The bias torque applied to the first rotary latch part by the first spring causes the first rotary latch part to rotate in the clockwise direction such that peg rests against an exterior of the raised cam . A threshold amount of time after the second actuator is initially provided with electrical power e.g. after the second actuator has rotated the second rotary latch part such that the peg clears the detent power is ceased to be provided to the second actuator . The bias torque applied to the second rotary latch part by the second spring causes the second rotary latch part to rotate in the counterclockwise direction until the peg impacts the ramped mating region the open detent of the raised cam . At such point the electromechanical latch can remain in the open position until an external force is applied to the output stage . When in the open position the electromechanical latch allows for opening and or closing of a door or enclosure the latching or unlatching of such door .

In an exemplary embodiment the electromechanical latch is designed such that the actions of the first actuator and the second actuator must be timed in a relatively precise manner. For instance the first actuator may be powered to move the peg from the closed detent for a relatively short period of time such as on the order of milliseconds e.g. 5 15 milliseconds . If the second actuator fails to drive the second rotary latch part in the relatively short amount of time that the peg is moved from the closed detent then the bias torque applied to the second rotary latch part by the first spring causes the peg to return to the closed detent of the raised cam and the latch will remain in the closed position . Similarly when the second actuator is powered prior to the first actuator being powered the peg in the closed detent prevents the second rotary latch part from rotating in the clockwise direction.

As will be described below the electromechanical latch includes circuitry that is configured to harvest energy from a plurality of different sources such as sensors that are in communication with the electromechanical latch . For example such circuitry can receive sensor signals and utilize such sensor signals as a power source for driving the first actuator and or the second actuator . The circuitry additionally includes timing circuitry that causes electrical power to be provided to the actuators and or at precise times thereby allowing for the electromechanical latch to transition from the closed position to the open position.

With reference now to transparent views of the electromechanical latch when viewed from the distal side when transitioning from the closed position to the open position is illustrated. When viewed from the distal side the second rotary latch part must be rotated in the counterclockwise direction some threshold distance to transition from the closed position to the open position. As shown in when the electromechanical latch is in the closed position the peg of the first rotary latch part is in the closed detent of the raised cam . In other words the peg rests in the hook shaped mating region of the raised cam . Accordingly the second rotary latch part is unable to rotate in the counterclockwise direction. Further a mechanical stop in the housing of the electromechanical latch is positioned relative to the peg such that rotation of the second rotary latch part in the clockwise direction when the electromechanical latch is in the closed position is prevented.

Referring now to rotation of the first rotary latch part such that the peg is removed from the closed detent is illustrated. At least one sensor signal is received that indicates that electromechanical latch is to be transitioned from the closed position to the open position. Responsive to receipt of the at least one sensor signal the first actuator is caused to rotate the first rotary latch part in a clockwise direction thus removing the peg from the closed detent of the raised cam . As indicated above the first spring asserts a bias torque against such rotation thus for example if an electric field in the environment causes power to inadvertently be provided to the first actuator such that the first rotary latch part is rotated and the peg is removed from the closed detent the bias torque of the first spring causes the peg to return to the closed detent immediately upon the first actuator ceasing to drive the first rotary latch part .

Now referring to as the first actuator causes the peg of the first rotary latch part to be clear of the detent of the raised cam the second actuator is powered thereby rotating the drive pinion which in turn causes the second rotary latch part to rotate in the counterclockwise direction. It can be ascertained that rotation of the second rotary latch part causes the peg to be positioned on an opposite side of the detent as when the electromechanical latch is in the closed position.

With reference now to subsequent to the second rotary latch part being driven in the counterclockwise direction such that the peg of the first rotary latch part clears the detent power is ceased to be provided to the first actuator . The bias torque exerted on the first rotary latch part by the first spring causes the first rotary latch part to rotate in the counterclockwise direction such that the peg rests against the exterior of the raised cam .

Turning to power is ceased to be provided to the second actuator . The bias torque exerted on the second rotary latch part by the second spring causes the second rotary latch part to rotate in the clockwise direction until the peg of the first rotary latch part rests against the open detent the ramped mating region of the raised cam . When the first rotary latch part and the second rotary latch part are in the position shown in the electromechanical latch is in the open position and can remain in the open position until an external force is applied to the second rotary latch part e.g. by way of the output stage . Additionally power need not be provided to the first actuator or the second actuator to cause the electromechanical latch to remain in the open position.

Referring to when the electromechanical latch is in the open position the second rotary latch part can be rotated in a counterclockwise direction by way of an external force applied to the output stage . While such rotating occurs the peg of the first rotary latch part remains pressed against the exterior of the raised cam . As noted above in an exemplary embodiment when the electromechanical latch is in the open position the output stage can engage a latch bar such that the latch bar can be moved to allow for opening a door of an enclosure. In an exemplary embodiment the second rotary latch part can be rotated in the counterclockwise direction until the peg impacts the mechanical stop. Therefore the electromechanical latch cannot be returned to the closed position by rotating the second rotary latch part 360 .

Referring collectively to transitioning of the electromechanical latch from the open position to the closed position is illustrated. Referring solely to an external force is applied to the output stage such that the second rotary latch part begins to rotate in the clockwise direction. As the second rotary latch part rotates the peg of the first rotary latch part slides up the ramped mating region of the detent . With reference to external force is further applied to the output stage until the peg of the first rotary latch part clears the ramped mating portion of the detent . illustrates the electromechanical latch returned to the closed position after the peg has cleared the detent and returned to the hooked mating portion of the raised cam . Specifically as the peg clears the detent the bias torque exerted by the first spring on the first rotary latch part causes the peg to be positioned in the closed detent.

It can be ascertained that illustrate a particular embodiment of the exemplary electromechanical latch . It is to be understood that other embodiments are also contemplated. For example the electromechanical latch may include an idler gear or a plurality of idler gears which can be arranged to require the first latching part and the second latching part to rotate in the same direction or different directions. Moreover idler gears can be included in the electromechanical latch to allow output shafts of the first actuator and the second actuator to rotate in the same or opposite directions. Furthermore the elements of the electromechanical latch may be composed of a variety of different materials. Such materials can include metals plastics etc. and can be selected based upon an environment in which the electromechanical latch is to be employed.

With reference now to an exemplary control circuit that can be employed in connection with controlling operation of the first actuator and the second actuator is illustrated. The electromechanical latch is configured to transition from the closed position to the open position responsive to receipt of a particular control signal or series of control signals. For instance the control signal comprises at least one electrical pulse received on one or more signal input lines e.g. lines 1 N . Such pulse s can serve as a power source for the electromechanical latch in addition to the control signal. Due to operational and environmental variability however power levels amplitudes of such pulses may vary by a relatively large percentage e.g. 50 or more in normal operation of the electromechanical latch . The control circuit is configured to apply correct amounts of power to the actuators and at respective correct start and end times such that the electromechanical latch operates correctly despite potential existence of significant input power variability.

The control circuit includes an aggregator circuit which can receive a plurality of electrical pulses control signals from a respective plurality of input lines. Transition of the electromechanical latch from the closed position to the open position in an exemplary embodiment is to occur responsive to receipt of at least one of such control signals. The aggregator circuit is configured to aggregate the electrical signals and output a single continuous power signal that for example can be high when any of the pulses in the input lines is high. The control circuit additionally includes a regulator circuit that regulates the power signal received from the aggregator circuit . Accordingly the output of the regulator circuit is a regulated signal.

The control circuit further includes a first timing circuit and a second timing circuit . Responsive to receiving the regulated signal from the regulator circuit indicating receipt of a control signal the first timing circuit outputs a first timing pulse wherein the first timing pulse has a first start time and a first end time. The first actuator desirably drives the first rotary latch part beginning at the first start time and ending at the first end time. Thus duration of the first timing pulse output by the timing circuit corresponds to the duration of the first actuator driving the first latch part . The second timing circuit outputs a second timing pulse responsive to receiving the regulated signal from the regulator circuit . The second timing pulse has a start time and an end time wherein the second actuator desirably drives the second rotary latch part beginning at the second start time and ending at the second end time. It can be ascertained that the second start time is subsequent to the first start time and prior to the first end time.

The control circuit additionally includes a first switch and a second switch . The first and second switches and may be semiconductor switches such as MOSFETs JFETs etc. The first timing pulse output by the first timing circuit can be received at a gate of the first switch while the combined power signal output by the aggregator circuit is provided to the source of the first switch . Accordingly output of the first switch is a first current pulse that corresponds to the first timing pulse output by the first timing circuit and having an amplitude corresponding to the combined power signal output by the aggregator circuit . Similarly the second switch receives at its gate the second timing pulse output by the second timing circuit while the combined power signal output by the aggregator circuit is received at the source of the second switch . The output of the second switch is thus a second current pulse that corresponds to the second timing pulse output by the second timing circuit and having an amplitude corresponding to the combined power signal output by the aggregator circuit .

The control circuit further comprises a first current limiting circuit and a second current limiting circuit . The first current limiting circuit and the second current limiting circuit can be powered by the output of the regulator circuit . The first current limiting circuit receives the first current pulse output by the first switch . The first current limiting circuit outputs a first current limited signal with the first start time and the first end time based upon the first current pulse. The first current limited signal is received by the first actuator which rotates the first rotary latch part responsive to receiving the first current limited signal.

The second current limiting circuit receives the second current pulse output by the second switch . The second current limiting circuit outputs a second current limited signal with the second start time and the second end time based upon the second current pulse. The second current limited signal is received by the second actuator which rotates the second rotary latch part responsive to receiving the second current limited signal.

It thus can be ascertained that the control circuit independently controls the timing and amplitude of current signals provided to the first actuator and the second actuator when transitioning the electromechanical latch from the closed position to the open position. By setting both power and time the control circuit controls total energy input to the actuators and over the operating time of the electromechanical latch .

Additionally other embodiments of the control circuit are also contemplated. As noted above the timing circuits and are used to output a signal that indicates when the switches and are respectively to be turned on and off. Operation of the timing circuit and can be indexed based upon a rise time of a first control signal received by the aggregator circuit or to rises of other input pulses or combinations thereof. Accordingly while not shown at least one of the input lines depicted as being connected to the aggregator circuit may be directly connected to at least one of the first timing circuit or the second timing circuit . Additionally more than one timing circuit can be used to time the start and or end of an actuator power signal from the rise of one or more control signals. Furthermore sub circuits in the control circuit can be arranged differently to provide the actuators and with properly timed power signals.

Referring now to a diagram illustrating exemplary operation of the aggregator circuit is illustrated. In the example shown in the aggregator circuit receives a first input pulse from a first input line that rises at time tand falls at time t. The aggregator circuit further receives a second input pulse from a second input line that rises at time tand falls at time t where tis after tand before t and tis after t. The aggregator circuit also receives a third input pulse from a third input line that rises at time tand falls at time t where tis after tand before t and tis after t. The aggregator circuit outputs the combined power signal which is high whenever any of the first pulse the second pulse or the third pulse is high. In the example shown in the combined power signal rises at time tand falls at time t.

Now referring to an exemplary implementation of the aggregator circuit is illustrated. In the exemplary implementation shown the aggregator circuit comprises a plurality of Schottky diodes that are arranged electrically in parallel and coupled to the respective input lines. The diodes are coupled to a common ground .

With reference to exemplary operation of the first timing circuit is depicted the second timing circuit operates similarly . The first timing circuit is shown as receiving a regulated signal output by the regulator circuit which can indicate that the electromechanical latch is desirably transitioned from the closed position to the open position. Responsive to receiving such regulated signal the first timing circuit can output the first timing signal that rises at the first start time t and falls at the first end time t wherein the first actuator is desired to drive the first rotary latch part between the first start time and the first end time.

Referring to an exemplary implementation of the first timing circuit and the second timing circuit is illustrated. The first timing circuit includes a relatively standard timer which has an output terminal and a threshold terminal that are coupled to an RC network . The RC network is used to set the timer such the output of the first timing circuit is the first timing signal.

With reference to a diagram depicting exemplary operation of the first current limiting circuit is illustrated. The first current limiting circuit receives a current pulse from the first switch wherein the current pulse rises at the first start time and falls at the first end time. The first current limiting circuit is configured to limit the current provided to the first actuator . Accordingly the first current limiting circuit outputs a first current limited signal which is received by the first actuator . Thus the first actuator drives the first rotary latch part between the first start time and the first end time.

Now referring to an exemplary implementation of the first current limiting circuit is illustrated. The first current limiting circuit can include a programmable current source the programmable current source comprising a set terminal and an output terminal. A resistor network sets a maximum current level that can be provided to the first actuator .

What has been described above includes examples of one or more embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable modification and alteration of the above devices or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further modifications and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Furthermore to the extent that the term includes is used in either the details description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

