---

title: Smart vent and atmospheric controller apparatuses, methods and systems
abstract: The SmartVent and Atmospheric Controller Apparatuses, Methods and Systems (“SmartVent”) transforms user desired environmental setting and SmartVent measurement inputs via SmartVent components into SmartVent adjustment messages and environmental change outputs. In one embodiment, a SmartVent system may include a self-regulating HVAC system, comprising a plurality of smart HVAC vents disposed in wireless communication with a remote computing device. Where the remote computing device a includes a memory and a processor disposed in communication with the memory, configured to record calibration data from each of said plurality of smart HVAC vents. The calibration data may include temperature and flow rate data from each of said plurality of smart HVAC vents. The system may generate calibration tables in accordance with the recorded calibration data and transmit instructions to each of the plurality of smart HVAC vents to optimize thermal conditions and energy efficiency of the HVAC system, in accordance with said calibration tables.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09618222&OS=09618222&RS=09618222
owner: Keen Home Inc.
number: 09618222
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140409
---
This application for letters patent disclosure document describes inventive aspects that include various novel innovations hereinafter disclosure and contains material that is subject to copyright mask work and or other intellectual property protection. The respective owners of such intellectual property have no objection to the facsimile reproduction of the disclosure by anyone as it appears in published Patent Office file records but otherwise reserve all rights.

Applicant hereby claims benefit to priority under 35 USC 119 as a non provisional conversion of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 810 236 filed Apr. 9 2013 entitled Wirelessly Network Controlled Air Register. 

Also Applicant hereby claims benefit to priority under 35 USC 119 as a non provisional conversion of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 949 400 filed Mar. 7 2014 entitled Method For Detecting Presence. 

The entire contents of the aforementioned applications are herein expressly incorporated by reference.

The present innovations generally address ventilation and more particularly include SmartVent and Atmospheric Controller Apparatuses Methods and Systems.

However in order to develop a reader s understanding of the innovations disclosures have been compiled into a single description to illustrate and clarify how aspects of these innovations operate independently interoperate as between individual innovations and or cooperate collectively. The application goes on to further describe the interrelations and synergies as between the various innovations all of which is to further compliance with 35 U.S.C. 112.

Heating ventilation and air conditioning equipment is used to affect the temperature in a home. In particular homes with ductwork use vents that have manually adjustable apertures that home owners may open and close.

Appendices and or drawings illustrating various non limiting example innovative aspects of the SmartVent and Atmospheric Controller Apparatuses Methods and Systems hereinafter SmartVent disclosure include 

Generally the leading number of each citation number within the drawings indicates the figure in which that citation number is introduced and or detailed. As such a detailed discussion of citation number would be found and or introduced in . Citation number is introduced in etc. Any citation and or reference numbers are not necessarily sequences but rather just example orders that may be rearranged and other orders are contemplated.

The SmartVent and Atmospheric Controller Apparatuses Methods and Systems hereinafter SmartVent transforms user desired environmental setting and SmartVent measurement inputs via SmartVent components e.g. calibaration and adjustment components etc. into SmartVent adjustment messages and environmental change outputs. The SmartVent components in various embodiments implement advantageous features as set forth below.

Studies indicate that the average American household spends half of its total energy bill on heating and cooling costs. The components of this cost include an average of 2 4 rooms over heated or over cooled at any time. In addition to adding unnecessarily to the costs of heating and cooling this can lead to the spaces identified being uncomfortable for Use.

One reason for this inefficiency is that residential Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning HVAC systems often feature forced air traveling through ducts to vent registers located in all rooms of a building leading to air being provided to all rooms in a system largely indiscriminately. This inefficiency can be addressed by modifying heating and cooling systems to condition a room only when a human is present or expected to be present.

Traditional heating and cooling vents allow users to manually open and close registers preventing a system from heating or cooling specific spaces. To date efforts to improve the efficiency of systems by opening and closing vents has been limited to easing the process of manually opening and dosing vents such as remote control systems or bringing intelligence to a thermostat associated with a vent to allow for certain types of scheduling.

If vent registers can be electronically opened and closed based on event sensory information or a more sophisticated schedule a new level of efficiency and comfort can be realized for users. In order to make these systems more responsive to changing user needs it is beneficial to incorporate a presence detection system to alert the system to whether people are using certain rooms or are present in the home at all. Methods and procedures disclosed for improving HVAC performance may also be applicable to the broader needs of Home Automation HA and the Internet of Things IoT .

There is a need for more sophisticated systems for efficiently controlling HVAC systems so that rooms are conditioned as needed based on expected or actual human presence.

Initially a SmartVent A may obtain an input from a user and or system to instantiate the SmartVent A. This instantiation may occur after a SmartVent is installed in a duct and or vent aperture in an environment location e.g. home building campus etc. . Similarly multiple other SmartVents B may be instantiated B e.g. turned on and begin executing calibration and adjustment components e.g. see when they are installed. These instantiations SmartVents may occur concurrently in parallel serially at the same and or different times. Once the SmartVents B are installed and or instantiated in a distributed embodiment the SmartVents may broadcast their identifiers by sending broadcast SmartVents identifier messages A B.

In such an embodiment the SmartVents A B may form a mesh network by making note of one another s presence. Each SmartVent may record the identifiers of other SmartVents to allow for future communication. Such broadcast messages may propagate throughout a house where SmartVents at one part of the house that could not otherwise communicate with other SmartVents that are out of range as such the SmartVents may transmit their SmartVent identifiers through such SmartVent broadcast identifier messages A B through intermediate SmartVents. Similarly if at least one SmartVent A is a disposed in communication and or otherwise registered or known by a home server and or cloud server then the SmartVent A may send a SmartVent identifier update message C to such a server .

One example SmartVent broadcast identifier message A B may employ a ZigBee network identifier e.g. a ZigBee personal area network identifier PAN ID see http www.digi.com support kbase kbaseresultdetl id 2186 for more information herein incorporated by reference . An alternative example SmartVent broadcast identifier message request A B C substantially in the form of an HTTP S POST message including XML formatted data is provided below 

As such SmartVent broadcast identifier messages A B C D are transmitted each SmartVent A may register other SmartVents based on these received SmartVent broadcast identifier messages A A see for additional detail . Similarly other SmartVents B may also register any identified SmartVents B as may any home servers C and cloud servers D.

Once the SmartVents A B and servers have registered the SmartVents B they begin to measure and calibrate see calibration component in A B. As such the SmartVent A B may begin to access its sensor array to determine what values are being measured e.g. air flow rate airflow temperature humidity time barometric pressure light pollen count pollutants airflow aperture setting etc. . Such measurements may be used for the calibration and or for pure measurement. As SmartVents A B take measurements A B the SmartVents A B may begin sending measurement update messages A B C between themselves so as to aid in the calibration and maintenance of the SmartVent mesh and system. An example of the SmartVent measure update message A B C substantially in the form of an HTTP S POST message including XML formatted data is provided below 

As the SmartVents A B obtain such measurement update messages A B C SmartVents may then employ an adjustment and measurement calibration component see A B to use the updated settings to affect a desired temperature for an individual location space room and or a larger environment e.g. a floor house building etc. . Similarly the home server and or a cloud server obtaining similar measurement update messages C may use such update information to arrive at adjustment measurement and calibrations for the environment C. The servers and or other SmartVent B may generate and send a target SmartVent A an update request message so that the SmartVent A will provide the latest measurement values back to the requesting device servers. In one embodiment a SmartVent may employ a command from its printed circuit board PCB substantially in the example form below for example to obtain a temperature update 

An example call to a SmartVent microcontroller may be sent by a smarthub to generate a SmartVent update request message and substantially may take the form as follows 

An example of the SmartVent update request message substantially in the form of an HTTP S POST message including XML formatted data is provided below 

In response to such a message C and or to such measurement update request messages A B sent as between the SmartVents A B e.g. in a mesh environment measurement update messages A B may be propagated and similarly the SmartVents A B may send measurement update responses A B to the servers . The servers may make further adjustments and determinations via a calibration component see A B. In such a manner the servers may take into account various factors either in the locality of a home and or aggregating values from environments across regions to better calculate adjustments. As such the servers may send an adjustment message to the SmartVents A B for propagation among the SmartVents in this manner greater computational and data sources may be used to adjust the SmartVent settings to better achieve goals of occupants and users of the SmartVents.

An example of a command to generate a SmartVent adjustment message is shown below substantially in Groovy language format such a command may be resident on the SmartVent and or servers e.g. with a SmartThings device implementation via type handler in its cloud IDE each example shown is written specifically for SmartVents devices but may on other devices such as in the cloud and or on a local hub device 

With regard to common HVAC systems it should be noted that with many current HVAC configurations thermostats often only have temperature data at the location of the thermostat often a hallway or great room . As such current HVAC systems often lack often highly varied temperature data about the rest of the house. Other floors isolated rooms and rooms receiving large amounts of sunlight often vary widely. One advantage of SmartVents a is they may provide real time data about temperatures in these areas of the home and can provide an aggregate picture of the distributed or average temperature of the home. This data can be provided through a common hub an or by directly talking over a local network ZigBee Z wave WiFi . SmartVents with presence detectors in them can be used to create a learning schedule for thermostats. SmartVents could also send commands to thermostats directly requesting more or less airflow. Further SmartVents can make use of data from other connected devices. Devices such as motion detectors can be leveraged to create predictive schedules of room by room occupation. Other ZigBee Devices often have thermistors built into them. If the device is known to be located in proximity to the vent these can serve as temperature detecting devices for the room. As such SmartVents may employ and provide a wider array and more accurate set of measurements and may even be used to increase the fidelity of e.g. as a diagnostic to existing HVAC systems e.g. see of .

In this embodiment a user of the system can create register an account and login at a cloud server . Similarly a login may originate from a mobile device B and propagate to a cloud server to a home server C and or HVAC home controller D. Also a user may login straight through the home server E. In one embodiment the login at the cloud server may provide a registration information message to the home server .

SmartVents may be instantiated when they are installed and engaged. SmartVents may register their identifiers by sending a register event identifier message to a home server . Home server may further this information by itself sending a SmartVent registration message to the cloud server . The SmartVents may continue to obtain measurements and send an initial measurement messages to the home server . With these values and in one embodiment the home server may create and or update operational data tables . Alternatively the SmartVents may create and or update such operational data tables themselves. The home server may then send an adjustment instruction message to the SmartVents so as to provide settings for the SmartVents to better achieve any user specified environmental settings. The a SmartVents may then send additional measurements back to the home server . A user and or system may provide commands and controls by way of desired environmental settings e.g. desired SmartVent aperture settings temperatures etc. . In addition such user commands may be provided via mobile a cloud server and or through the HVAC home controller .

Otherwise the calibration component will begin to calibrate the instant SmartVent as it relates to all other registered and identified SmartVents for various types and periods of settings . For example the SmartVent s effects on its environment may react differently during different periods of time e.g. cooling may be easier at night than during the day warming is easier during the summer season etc. . As such a SmartVent database controller may have a database table denoting various types and periods and specifics for calibrating under each of such types and periods. Example types and periods include morning afternoon evening daytime week month season year rainy days hot days cold days dry days humid days etc. as such the calibration component will perform a calibration for each a such type and period .

Additionally the calibration component may perform a calibration for each SmartVent in an identified list array of registered SmartVents . Such calibrations may be performed individually for each individually registered SmartVent and or via n factorial permutations as between all registered SmartVents for example while performing calibration and modifying the values of only a singular SmartVent and measuring its impact on all other rooms locations SmartVents may be one implementation and embodiment varying two SmartVents at a time then three SmartVents at a time and all n factorial permutations of SmartVent interactions may provide interesting calibration table values see for an example calibration table that vary from information obtained while doing a singular calibration for each SmartVent.

As such and for each SmartVent the calibration component may measure the sensor array values from SmartVents in all identified rooms and from all identified SmartVents . Such obtained values may then be updated on the servers and or SmartVents themselves e.g. stored on the devices . Afterwards the calibration component may cause the sending of an adjustment message or the current SmartVent e.g. change the flow by some threshold interval . For example if the SmartVent has an actuator that will change its flow rate and if such actuator has a field of motion having 10 step settings the calibration component may increment the actuator to its next setting by one e.g. causing the SmartVent aperture to decrease from a 50 opening down to a 40 opening . After sending this adjustment message the calibration component may instruct the instant SmartVent to wait an interval threshold amount of time . This interval threshold amount of time will vary depending upon the period and type currently being calibrated . For example if the calibration component is measuring the effects during a morning period interval any adjustments that were previously made may be allowed to run with the system for a 10 minute threshold however if the interval type is a season the interval threshold may be an entire day measured once a week.

After waiting the appropriate interval threshold amount of time the calibration component may then measure any atmospheric changes in all the rooms . In one embodiment the calibration component employed the sensor array in each SmartVent to obtain temperature humidity sensor array network etc. values. Such updated values may be stored on the SmartVents themselves and or the servers . As updated values are obtained for each interval threshold amount of time the calibration component may continually build an interval curve e.g. measuring an overall effect for the interval by determining the change from the previous interval . As the changes from one interval to the next are determined these determined effects and changes are updated and stored by the calibration component in a SmartVent database e.g. see of and . The calibration component may then determine if there any more SmartVents that are known and need to be calibrated . The calibration component will continue to iterate until all identified SmartVents have been calibrated. If there are still more SmartVents to be calibrated the calibration component will determine if it is still within a threshold period of time for example if the threshold calibration type was a morning and the calibration component determines it is now an evening time the calibration had exceeded the calibration type period and an error handler may reschedule an additional sampling calibration time. If the type is still within the period of time the next SmartVent calibration will occur until all SmartVents have been calibrated . Once all the SmartVents have been calibrated the calibration component may determine an overall effect for all SmartVents for the period of time and update and store those effects e.g. as a curve accumulation of delta calibration tables .

Similarly the calibration component may determine if there are more calibration types . If not the calibration component may optionally determine if obtained measurements match those of the smart thermostat e.g. Nest Honeywell RTH9580 Schneider Electric EER56100 etc. and or HVAC system for example if multiple SmartVents all report a constant temperature of 72 and the HVAC thermostat reports 58 an error handler call may generate an email or notification for the user to have the HVAC unit checked. If there are more calibration types the calibration component may continue to iterate through each of the next types or otherwise conclude .

In an optional embodiment the adjustment component may also obtain energy costs per HVAC SmartVent unit . For example heating costs during summertime wintertime and air conditioning costs may be obtained e.g. in one embodiment an energy cost calculator may be fed information about the SmartVent environment location etc. to obtain pricing values such as . The adjustment component may optionally determine if such factor feedback should be obtained. If so the adjustment component may provide the user interface for display and obtain such additional factor selection values from a user for example the user interface may allow the user to optimize for cost time CO environmental impact etc. If such an optional factor e.g. cost time etc. embodiment is enacted the adjustment a component may determine adjustments for the SmartVents based on these additional factors for example if cost is a factor and a user specified the desire to minimize cost then the adjustment component may reduce the use of the HVAC system during the heaviest regional electric grid use i.e. during times when operating HVAC systems is most expensive.

The adjustment component may then determine the proper adjustment based on atmospheric and any additional factors from the calibration tables . For example a calibration having only three SmartVents may generate a calibration table where closing SmartVent one lowers the temperature of SmartVents two and three in different rooms e.g. see should a user specifies they wish to lower the temperature of the rooms where SmartVents two and three are situated and SmartVent one may obtain an adjustment value from the calibration table of how far to set its aperture and close the SmartVent one for an appropriate amount of time to affect the desired temperature changes in the other rooms. In one embodiment the adjustment component will determine if any provided atmospheric selections by the user are outside the range of what is known to be possible from the calibration tables . If such a request is outside the realm of possibility and error handler may be instantiated . Otherwise the determined adjustments are sent to the appropriate SmartVents and other devices to affect atmospheric selections by user and achieve the desired settings after which the adjustment component may cease .

A number of alternative example embodiment part material and use descriptions for the SmartVent follow 

The SmartVent may be installed in a customer s home in place of their current vent. Once installed a new customer may create a user account on our webpage where they may complete a survey to determine the opening closing schedule of each SmartVent. Each SmartVent may then communicate with each other and with the user s online cloud account. Once a SmartVent is determined to be opened or closed the instructions from the cloud information may be communicated to a specific SmartVent. The SmartVent may receive the instructions through the wireless chip and convert that into mechanical action a through the RAM unit and CPU. This may in turn engage the actuator to move the rear plate to the desired open close position.

The air SmartVents may operate cohesively as part of a wireless mesh network. Each SmartVent may communicate with the other SmartVents installed throughout a location e.g. house . This individual mesh network will be linked to the Internet where all details of the SmartVent system may be stored in cloud servers in order to track usage and provide additional benefits to the user.

The SmartVent particularly its housing frame may be manufactured employing many of the same techniques used to make traditional vents. If plastic is used the product may be injection molded and the electronic components may be attached using glue clasps screw bolts and or other common mechanisms. If metal is used the product may be manufactured according to the specifics of the metal used.

The SmartVents may use a louver system as opposed to a sliding plate to restrict airflow. The material used in the manufacture of the SmartVent may be metal alloys natural products or other materials of adequate rigidity.

In one embodiment a SmartVent may be constructed of rigid material such as plastic or metal. A SmartVent may have openings for air to flow through and fans to charge the capacitor of . Compartment for batteries of . Printed circuit board PCB that contains the following electronic components CPU RAM module proximity sensor temperature sensor and the wireless chip. Capacitor may store energy to power the SmartVent s actuator and the PCB components. Actuator may open and close the SmartVent s openings. Wireless chip may communicate with the USB bridge Internet enabled devices and other SmartVents. Random access memory module may aid the CPU in executing the SmartVent s instructions and all user commands. Central processor unit may execute the SmartVent s algorithms and all user commands. Temperature sensor of may measure the ambient temperature in the room in which the SmartVent is placed. Proximity sensor to record activity in the room in which the SmartVent is placed. USB bridge which plugs into the user s router to form a mesh network with the user s a SmartVents. Detailed view of actuator mechanism used to open and close the SmartVent s openings. Rear plate that may be moved laterally by the actuator to open and close the SmartVent openings. Duct opening into which the SmartVent is placed. Internet enabled wireless devices laptop computer tablet and smartphone used to send commands to the SmartVent.

A SmartVent and or a vent register of is provided for inserting into a home s existing duct opening e.g. see of . The SmartVent s air flow openings open and close by sliding a rear plate of to either obstruct or allow air passing through the SmartVent. The rear plate of is moved by transmitting a signal to an actuator of e.g. whereby a controlling signal for the actuator may be generated by and or read by an actuator sensor B as part of a sensor array of on the PCB of integrated with the SmartVent of .

The actuator of along with the circuitry controlling the movement of the rear plate of may be powered using a power source B e.g. a battery stored in a battery compartment of and or a capacitor of charged by some other means e.g. fans affixed within the SmartVent that are propelled by duct vent air flow of . For example these means may be a small turbine powered by air flow through the SmartVent a wind belt DC to DC boost conversion from an independent power source and or some other independent power source. The control circuitry for the SmartVent of may located on a printed circuit board PCB of and or the SmartVent Controller of within the SmartVent of .

The circuitry on the SmartVent of may be configured for various types of communications with controllers and networked devices in order to create an opening closing schedule for the device. The system can be manufactured of plastic or metal using conventional manufacturing processes. The SmartVent of Figure shown includes a sliding plate for closing and opening the SmartVent resulting in various programmable levels of occlusion. In place of the plate any number of other configurations may be applied so long as the SmartVent of may be opened and closed as needed.

In some embodiments the mesh network may be configured to recognize and incorporate devices other than SmartVents by discovering devices using specified protocols such as ZigBee devices and analyzing the mesh network note map or measuring time of flight of messages sent between devices.

The hub checks to determine if an HVAC cycle has been completed . If not the hub waits and checks again after a period of time has passed. If the cycle has ended the hub reads the temperatures of all rooms in which the HVAC system is installed by checking temperature gauges at or associated with any SmartVents in the system . The system then determines for each room if the room is under or over conditioned if the temperature matches a target temperature for example and based on the resulting analysis will increase or decrease the occlusion of the SmartVent in the event of a deviant room.

The system may then wait a set period of time before restarting the HVAC cycle. Once the system is running again the hub will once again begin checking to determine if the cycle has been completed in which case the hub will once again poll the individual rooms to determine if the occlusion of each vent is appropriate .

In one embodiment a deviant room is determined to exist if a room is under or over conditioned. In the case of a set point of a thermostat the system may evaluate the temperature based on the set temperature and an acceptable error factor. If individual room settings are set a room may be ignored or the set temperature adjusted for a specified SmartVent.

In some embodiments the rooms may be systematically evaluated consecutively and only one SmartVent is modified at a time. In such an embodiment the all rooms may be evaluated and the most deviant room in the system is selected for modification. Once a first heating or cooling cycle is completed the most deviant room is determined based on some criteria and only a SmartVent in that room is modified. Once a second heating or cooling cycle is completed the system again selects the most deviant room to modify. In this manner the entire HVAC system can be defined as a differential system and the individual vents can be modified to provide the highest probability of finding a homeostatic solution.

In some embodiments the hub may network with devices other than the SmartVent using assorted protocols. In one embodiment the hub is a ZigBee device and the temperature gauges associated with the SmartVents are various ZigBee devices having a temperature attribute. In other embodiments the device is a Wi Fi or other network hub and can poll various connected devices including phones door intrusion sensors window intrusion sensors home security cameras Internet enabled door locks smart thermostats discrete temperature sensors tablets and computers for temperature attributes in order to generate a temperature for a room or space. In some embodiments various devices such as gradient balanced non contact thermometers may be used to generate a temperature gradient for a space. In other embodiments a mechanism may be used to extrapolate from known data to generate a temperature gradient.

Vents in various rooms may be coordinated to ensure that certain systemic criteria are met. These criteria could be to protect the air handler by ensuring that some percentage such as half of the vents in the system are open at any given time and avoiding any potential pressure buildup in the HVAC system or by ensuring a certain amount of air flow in the system. The system may further monitor temperature at each individual SmartVent and may thereby generate a temperature profile of the home.

The temperatures for various rooms may be assigned using a computerized interface using a drag and drop functionality or other software hardware mechanisms for example based on a computer or other wireless device. Some embodiments of potential user interfaces for such a system are illustrated below.

Once a schedule is set for a single room the user may set additional rooms or may activate the system. The system will then check the time regularly and adjust the occlusion of the SmartVents as appropriate . If the system is not scheduled to modify occlusion in the near future the system may activate a sleep timer until the next time requiring a changing in the occlusion of a vent.

If the temperature requires adjustment the occlusion level may be modified and the temperature is checked again after the following system cycle e.g. in one embodiment upon closing any vents un un occupied rooms . In some embodiments this method may incorporate presence detection as described below. In such an embodiment the system may regularly poll rooms for presence and if no human is present in a specified room the system may raise the occlusion level for the room.

In addition to temperature the system may evaluate comfort levels or other criteria including humidity or other air quality indicia and in some embodiments the system may have mechanisms for adjusting those other air quality indicia as part of an HVAC system.

The manual mode user interface for manually setting an occlusion schedule for a SmartVent shows occlusion settings for various example rooms within a home including a master bedroom home office family room and dining room. As indicated in the the system includes five occlusion settings ranging from fully closed to fully opened and allows for hourly changes over the course of a day. In this way rooms that are traditionally over or under conditioned may be adjusted to a desired temperature and rooms that aren t used regularly such as a bedroom during the daytime or a formal dining room for most of the day can be adjusted to account for comfort and energy efficiency.

The automatic mode user interface shows an interface allowing a user to set occupancy for various rooms in the home and the system may then determine an appropriate temperature. The user may also modify the temperature required for occupied rooms. The scheduling in both this and the manual interface may be based on a daily weekly or monthly schedule.

In some embodiments a user may manually adjust the SmartVents and the system will record the change as a setting in the user interface based on one of these scheduling schemes. For example the system may monitor user implemented changes in the scheduling and may incorporate such changes into the system s scheduling algorithms based on for example weighted averaging of the users inputs. The system may also determine a user s schedule based on use of a presence detection algorithm such as that described below.

In some example embodiments SmartVents may perform presence detection to enhance operations. Presence detection for detecting the presence of humans for example may be incorporated into an HVAC system such as that described above. In one embodiment a presence detection mechanism is implemented in a computerized system such as a SmartVent a hub for a SmartVent system and or SmartVent Controller of . The system first identifies a zone for the evaluation of human presence. This zone may be a room in an HVAC system or it may be the home in which the system is implemented. The system may then identify a device to use as an analog for human presence such as an electronic device within the zone. This electronic device may be for example a smartphone or a tablet as well as some other portable user device.

The system then receives a first signal from the device. The signal may be for example a Wi Fi signal or a ZigBee signal as well as other wireless signals. The signal is then used to evaluate a first distance between a first location and the electronic device. The first location may be for example a SmartVent being controlled by the system. This evaluation may be an assessment of a relatively imprecise analog for distance such as received signal strength RSS from a network device. Alternatively the signal may be initially generated by the system and reflected off the electronic device such as a backscatter based signal.

The system then receive a second signal from the device. The signal may be an a equivalent signal to the first one i.e. it may be an identical type of signal such as a RSS signal from the network device. The second signal may then used to evaluate a second distance between the first location and the electronic device. The first distance and the second distance are then compared to determine if there is a difference between them and if that difference is beyond the likely error of the measurement method. If RSS is used to evaluate distance and is found to generally be imprecise the system may need to incorporate a substantial threshold for potential error.

Using a method such as this the system can determine whether electronic devices are being moved within the zone and may therefore determine if users are present.

In order to evaluate an appropriate threshold level for a measurement mechanism the system may repeat the measurement over time and determine a mean and standard deviation for one type of measurement. The system may also compare the results with those implied by a scheduling system such as those described above or a standard template for expected presence in the space.

The received signal may be received from the electronic device after sending a test signal. For example the system may ping the electronic device and determine how long it takes to receive a response. The system may further be able to read meta data such as frame information or other information to determine an appropriate device to use by finding a device identified in meta data as a mobile device for example and for gleaning information about the device.

In some embodiments once the system determines that a user is present the system sends a signal to open a SmartVent. The system may then continue to poll the space for electronic devices and determine when the electronic device leaves the space. The system may then close the SmartVent to improve efficiency in other zones of the system and conserve energy. For example if no signal is received for some period of time the human it was acting as an analog for may be determined to have left the zone.

The system described may poll a zone at regular intervals in order to determine the presence or absence of a user. The intervals for this polling are at human time scales in matters of minutes for example in order to evaluate the zone for the presence of human motion.

In an alternative embodiment a system may determine the presence of a human within a zone by evaluating the zone for the presence of electronic devices at various times and identifying a specific electronic device or electronic devices that is present some of the time. Those devices may then be used to evaluate schedules for users associated with those devices. In one example the system may have access to a local wireless network. The system may then track devices by MAC addresses or connection metadata. The system may also attempt to connect with each device individually to log user agent and other metadata.

As such the system may connect to a home network to identify a user. Home automation suites often work through home networks and it is often possible to poll for DHCP logs IP addresses MAC addresses and sometimes user or device names of other devices on the network. When a device is seen to leave or arrive at times already associated with a known schedule it can be deduced that this device might be a mobile device like a cell phone or laptop that frequently represents the presence of a user. Also when a device is used to SmartVent the HA system online the MAC address and user agent can be captured and used to identify the device in the future. This can then serve as one of several data points that can be used in combination or alone to probabilistically determine the presence of a user. This can be further refined by checking traffic statistics for each device and establishing a distinction between an actively used and passively used device as a function of such parameters as upload frequency and volume and download frequency and volume.

Once mobile devices are identified either based on frequently leaving the network or metadata associated with the device the presence of such a device may be used as an analog for user presence and may be used to evaluate user schedules. The system may then use the presence of the devices to algorithmically determine a probabilistic presence schedule for various users.

The system may alternatively use networked presence detectors such as motion sensors or localized thermometers on a network associated with the zone. These devices may be ZigBee devices with presence attributes. A user interface may be provided to allow a user to associate a device having a presence attribute with a specified space similar to associating a specified SmartVent with a space . The user may then select and use a device known to be accurate in assessing presence in a specified space.

In some embodiments the measurement of presence detection is made more precise by providing a user with a beacon that can be carried on a key chain for example. Such a beacon may be used to control the SmartVent directly or it may be used for a training period so that the SmartVent may create a schedule based on the user s presence during the training period.

In some embodiments a set of SmartVents of may be networked to provide an HVAC diagnostic system. Each SmartVent may then include a device for evaluating a quantity for diagnostics. In one embodiment each SmartVent contains a delivered air speed or flow sensor and a temperature gauge. In order to diagnose issues in an HVAC unit the air speed sensor may then be combined with known vent dimensions and used to evaluate volumetric air flow compared to an expected volumetric airflow. The expected air flow may be based on other SmartVents in the system or an earlier measurement from the SmartVent being evaluated.

The HVAC evaluation system may include a transmission unit for alerting a user of a discrepancy between actual airflow and expected airflow.

A similar evaluation may be performed in relation to temperatures recorded by the SmartVent. In some embodiments evaluation units may be part of a standard HVAC system such that a mean and standard deviation for each quantity is recorded and if the quantity strays beyond a threshold the system alerts a user. In one example vents are fully occluded or open but the resulting airflow differs from expected airflow.

In some embodiments the temperature at various SmartVents are compared to a temperature set at a thermostat and the temperature read outs are substantially different i.e. several standard deviations from the mean readout or some threshold amount away from the set temperature .

In alternative embodiments Many HA products use wireless protocols like ZigBee 6LoWPAN Z Wave and others to communicate. These wireless signals are capable of detecting when objects around them interfere with signals they send and receive. Patterns such as fast changes in interference patterns may be used to indicate the presence of a user in a room. In implementing an evaluation process this mechanism may be highly affected by idiosyncratic geometric and electromagnetic properties of real world rooms making it highly unreliable on its own. Further non contact thermometers are often sensitive enough to determine when a warm body passes directly in front of its line of sight which can be effective for guaranteeing presence but ineffective for guaranteeing absence due to false negatives. Multiple mechanisms such as these may then be used in combination to probabilistically determine the presence of a user in a broad range of scenarios by confirming which interference phenomena are unique to user presence and which are unique to properties of the room and then confirming with a secondary process. When the Home Automation system has a gateway or accessible node like the SmartVent that features Wi Fi or Bluetooth radios it is possible to directly see the signals broadcasted by mobile devices. These signals give metadata. WiBee detection is possible. Wi Fi signals are detectable to ZigBee devices. Although frames may be difficult to decode ZigBee devices may be configured to detect frames e.g. see herein incorporated by reference . As such the presence of a frame may not provide information about the user agent MAC address and or ID of any device and or even guarantee that a single device is present. However there is a unique application to presence detection in a Home Automation system. As such frames can give Received Signal Strength RSS information to a ZigBee device. This can be used to determine if a user device is in motion and or an interference causing moving person is in motion and also if the device is moving toward or away from the ZigBee device. Devices in motion almost always indicate the presence of a user and since the RSS gives signal strength a relative decision about whether the device is in the same room with or near a SmartVent is possible giving room by room presence information.

Systems and modules described herein may comprise software firmware hardware or any combination s of software firmware or hardware suitable for the purposes described herein. Software and other modules may reside on servers workstations personal computers computerized tablets PDAs and other devices suitable for the purposes described herein. Software and other modules may be accessible via local memory via a network via a browser or via other means suitable for the purposes described herein. Data structures described herein may comprise computer files variables programming arrays programming structures or any electronic information storage schemes or methods or any combinations thereof suitable for the purposes described herein. User interface elements described herein may comprise elements from graphical user interfaces command line interfaces and other interfaces suitable for the purposes described herein.

Embodiments are also described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor special purpose computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to operate in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operations to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

In addition mechanisms described herein are not limited to any particular sequence and the acts or blocks relating thereto can be performed in other sequences that are appropriate. For example described acts or blocks may be performed in an order other than that specifically disclosed or multiple acts or blocks may be combined in a single act or block.

While the present embodiments have been described at some length and with some particularity with respect to the several described embodiments it is not intended that it should be limited to any such particulars or embodiments or any particular embodiment but it is to be construed with references to the appended claims so as to provide the broadest possible interpretation of such claims in view of the prior art and therefore to effectively encompass the intended scope of the disclosure. Furthermore the foregoing describes the embodiments in terms of those foreseen by the inventor notwithstanding that insubstantial modifications of the embodiments not presently foreseen may nonetheless represent equivalents thereto.

Typically users which may be people and or other systems may engage information technology systems e.g. computers to facilitate information processing. In turn computers employ processors to process information such processors may be referred to as central processing units CPU . One form of processor is referred to as a microprocessor. CPUs use communicative circuits to pass binary encoded signals acting as instructions to enable various operations. These instructions may be operational and or data instructions containing and or referencing other instructions and data in various processor accessible and operable areas of memory e.g. registers cache memory random access memory etc. . Such communicative instructions may be stored and or transmitted in batches e.g. batches of instructions as programs and or data components to facilitate desired operations. These stored instruction codes e.g. programs may engage the CPU circuit components and other motherboard and or system components to perform desired operations. One type of program is a computer operating system which may be executed by CPU on a computer the operating system enables and facilitates users to access and operate computer information technology and resources. Some resources that may be employed in information technology systems include input and output mechanisms through which data may pass into and out of a computer memory storage into which data may be saved and processors by which information may be processed. These information technology systems may be used to collect data for later retrieval analysis and manipulation which may be facilitated through a database program. These information technology systems provide interfaces that allow users to access and operate various system components.

In one embodiment the SmartVent controller may be connected to and or communicate with entities such as but not limited to one or more users from user input devices peripheral devices an optional cryptographic processor device and or a communications network .

Networks are commonly thought to comprise the interconnection and interoperation of clients servers and intermediary nodes in a graph topology. It should be noted that the term server as used throughout this application refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that processes and responds to the requests of remote users across a communications network. Servers serve their information to requesting clients. The term client as used herein refers generally to a computer program other device user and or combination thereof that is capable of processing and making requests and obtaining and processing any responses from servers across a communications network. A computer other device program or combination thereof that facilitates processes information and requests and or furthers the passage of information from a source user to a destination user is commonly referred to as a node. Networks are generally thought to facilitate the transfer of information from source points to destinations. A node specifically tasked with furthering the passage of information from a source to a destination is commonly called a router. There are many forms of networks such as Local Area Networks LANs Pico networks Wide Area Networks WANs Wireless Networks WLANs etc. For example the Internet is generally accepted as being an interconnection of a multitude of networks whereby remote clients and servers may access and interoperate with one another.

The SmartVent controller may be based on computer systems that may comprise but are not limited to components such as a computer systemization connected to memory .

A computer systemization may comprise a clock central processing unit CPU s and or processor s these terms are used interchangeable throughout the disclosure unless noted to the contrary a memory e.g. a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM etc. and or an interface bus and most frequently although not necessarily are all interconnected and or communicating through a system bus on one or more mother board s having conductive and or otherwise transportive circuit pathways through which instructions e.g. binary encoded signals may travel to effectuate communications operations storage etc. The computer systemization may be connected to a power source e.g. optionally the power source may be internal. Optionally a cryptographic processor and or transceivers e.g. ICs may be connected to the system bus. In another embodiment a the cryptographic processor and or transceivers may be connected as either internal and or external peripheral devices via the interface bus I O. In turn the transceivers may be connected to antenna s thereby effectuating wireless transmission and reception of various communication and or sensor protocols for example the antenna s may connect to various transceiver chipsets depending on deployment needs including Broadcom BCM4329FKUBG transceiver chip e.g. providing 802.11n Bluetooth 2.1 EDR FM etc. a Broadcom BCM4750IUB8 receiver chip e.g. GPS a Broadcom BCM4335 transceiver chip e.g. providing 2G 3G and 4G long term evolution LTE cellular communications 802.11ac Bluetooth 4.0 low energy LE e.g. beacon features an Infineon Technologies X Gold 618 PMB9800 e.g. providing 2G 3G HSDPA HSUPA communications a MediaTek MT6620 transceiver chip e.g. providing 802.11a b g n Bluetooth 4.0 LE FM global positioning system GPS thereby allowing SmartVent controller to determine its location a Texas Instruments WiLink WL1283 transceiver chip e.g. providing 802.11n Bluetooth 3.0 FM GPS and or the like. The system clock typically has a crystal oscillator and generates a base signal through the computer systemization s circuit pathways. The clock is typically coupled to the system bus and various clock multipliers that will increase or decrease the base operating frequency for other components interconnected in the computer systemization. The clock and various components in a computer systemization drive signals embodying information throughout the system. Such transmission and reception of instructions embodying information throughout a computer systemization may be commonly referred to as communications. These communicative instructions may further be transmitted received and the cause of return and or reply communications beyond the instant computer systemization to communications networks input devices other computer systemizations peripheral devices and or the like. It should be understood that in alternative embodiments any of the above components may be connected directly to one another connected to the CPU and or organized in numerous variations employed as exemplified by various computer systems.

The CPU comprises at least one high speed data processor adequate to execute program components for executing user and or system generated requests. Often the a processors themselves will incorporate various specialized processing units such as but not limited to integrated system bus controllers memory management control units floating point units and even specialized processing sub units like graphics processing units digital signal processing units and or the like. Additionally processors may include internal fast access addressable memory and be capable of mapping and addressing memory beyond the processor itself internal memory may include but is not limited to fast registers various levels of cache memory e.g. level 1 2 3 etc. RAM etc. The processor may access this memory through the use of a memory address space that is accessible via instruction address which the processor can construct and decode allowing it to access a circuit path to a specific memory address space having a memory state. The CPU may be a microprocessor such as AMD s Athlon Duron and or Opteron ARM s application embedded and secure processors IBM and or Motorola s DragonBall and PowerPC IBM s and Sony s Cell processor Intel s Celeron Core 2 Duo Itanium Pentium Xeon and or XScale and or the like processor s . The CPU interacts with memory through instruction passing through conductive and or transportive conduits e.g. printed electronic and or optic circuits to execute stored instructions i.e. program code according to conventional data processing techniques. Such instruction passing facilitates communication within the SmartVent controller and beyond through various interfaces. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed processors e.g. Distributed SmartVent mainframe multi core parallel and or super computer architectures may similarly be employed. Alternatively should deployment requirements dictate greater portability smaller Personal Digital Assistants PDAs may be employed.

Depending on the particular implementation features of the SmartVent may be achieved by implementing a microcontroller such as CAST s R8051XC2 microcontroller Intel s MCS 51 i.e. 8051 microcontroller and or the like. Also to implement certain features of the SmartVent some feature implementations may rely on embedded components such as Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Digital Signal Processing DSP Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and or the like embedded technology. For example any of the SmartVent component collection distributed or otherwise and or features may be implemented via the microprocessor and or via embedded components e.g. via ASIC coprocessor DSP FPGA and or the like. Alternately some implementations of the SmartVent may be implemented with embedded components that are configured and used to achieve a variety of features or signal processing.

Depending on the particular implementation the embedded components may include software solutions hardware solutions and or some combination of both hardware software solutions. For example SmartVent features discussed herein may be achieved through implementing FPGAs which are a semiconductor devices containing programmable logic components called logic blocks and programmable interconnects such as the high performance FPGA Virtex series and or the low cost Spartan series manufactured by Xilinx. Logic blocks and interconnects can be programmed by the customer or designer after the FPGA is manufactured to implement any of the SmartVent features. A hierarchy of programmable interconnects allow logic blocks to be interconnected as needed by the SmartVent system designer administrator somewhat like a one chip programmable breadboard. An FPGA s logic blocks can be programmed to perform the operation of basic logic gates such as AND and XOR or more complex combinational operators such as decoders or mathematical operations. In most FPGAs the logic blocks also include memory elements which may be circuit flip flops or more complete blocks of memory. In some circumstances the SmartVent may be developed on regular FPGAs and then migrated into a fixed version that more resembles ASIC implementations. Alternate or coordinating implementations may migrate SmartVent controller features to a final ASIC instead of or in addition to FPGAs. Depending on the implementation all of the aforementioned embedded components and microprocessors may be considered the CPU and or processor for the SmartVent.

The power source may be of any standard form for powering small electronic circuit board devices such as the following power cells alkaline lithium hydride lithium ion lithium polymer nickel cadmium solar cells and or the like. Other types of AC or DC power sources may be used as well. In the case of solar cells in one embodiment the case provides an aperture through which the solar cell may capture photonic energy. The power cell is connected to at least one of the interconnected subsequent components of the SmartVent thereby providing an electric current to all subsequent components. In one example the power source is connected to the system bus component . In an alternative embodiment an outside power source is provided through a connection across the I O interface. For example a USB and or IEEE 1394 connection carries both data and power across the connection and is therefore a suitable source of power.

Interface bus ses may accept connect and or communicate to a number of interface adapters conventionally although not necessarily in the form of adapter cards such as but not limited to input output interfaces I O storage interfaces network interfaces and or the like. Optionally cryptographic processor interfaces similarly may be connected to the interface bus. The interface bus provides for the communications of interface adapters with one another as well as with other components of the computer systemization. Interface adapters are adapted for a compatible interface bus. Interface adapters conventionally connect to the interface bus via a slot architecture. Conventional slot architectures may be employed such as but not limited to Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and or the like.

Storage interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a number of storage devices such as but not limited to storage devices removable disc devices and or the like. Storage interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Ultra Serial Advanced Technology Attachment Packet Interface Ultra Serial ATA PI Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics E IDE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI Universal Serial Bus USB and or the like.

Network interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a communications network . Through a communications network the SmartVent controller is accessible through remote clients e.g. computers with web browsers by users . Network interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to direct connect Ethernet thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 10000 Base T and or the like Token Ring wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11a x and or the like. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed network controllers e.g. Distributed SmartVent architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and or otherwise decrease increase the communicative bandwidth required by the SmartVent controller. A communications network may be any one and or the combination of the following a direct interconnection the Internet Interplanetary Internet e.g. Coherent File Distribution Protocol CFDP Space Communications Protocol Specifications SCPS etc. a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a secured custom connection a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network e.g. employing protocols such as but not limited to a cellular WiFi Wireless Application Protocol WAP I mode and or the like and or the like. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types . For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and or unicast networks.

Input Output interfaces I O may accept communicate and or connect to user input devices peripheral devices cryptographic processor devices and or the like. I O may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to audio analog digital monaural RCA stereo and or the like data Apple Desktop Bus ADB IEEE 1394a b serial universal serial bus USB infrared joystick keyboard midi optical PC AT PS 2 parallel radio video interface Apple Desktop Connector ADC BNC coaxial component composite digital Digital Visual Interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RCA RF antennae S Video VGA and or the like wireless transceivers 802.11a ac b g n x Bluetooth cellular e.g. code division multiple access CDMA high speed packet access HSPA high speed downlink packet access HSDPA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE WiMax etc. and or the like. One typical output device may include a video display which typically comprises a Cathode Ray Tube CRT or Liquid Crystal Display LCD based monitor with an interface e.g. DVI circuitry and cable that accepts signals from a video interface may be used. The video interface composites information generated by a computer systemization and generates video signals based on the composited information in a video memory frame. Another output device is a television set which accepts signals from a video interface. Typically the video interface provides the composited video information through a video connection interface that accepts a video display interface e.g. an RCA composite video connector accepting an RCA composite video cable a DVI connector accepting a DVI display cable etc. .

User input devices often are a type of peripheral device see below and may include card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards microphones mouse mice remote controls retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors e.g. accelerometers ambient light GPS gyroscopes proximity etc. styluses and or the like.

Peripheral devices may be connected and or communicate to I O and or other facilities of the like such as network interfaces storage interfaces directly to the interface bus system bus the CPU and or the like. Peripheral devices may be external internal and or part of the SmartVent controller. Peripheral devices may include antenna audio devices e.g. line in line out microphone input speakers etc. cameras e.g. still video webcam etc. dongles e.g. for copy protection ensuring secure transactions with a digital signature and or the like external processors for added capabilities e.g. crypto devices force feedback devices e.g. vibrating motors network interfaces printers scanners storage devices transceivers e.g. cellular GPS etc. video devices e.g. goggles monitors etc. video sources visors and or the like. Peripheral devices often include types of input devices e.g. cameras .

It should be noted that although user input devices and peripheral devices may be employed the SmartVent controller may be embodied as an embedded dedicated and or monitor less i.e. headless device wherein access would be provided over a network interface connection.

Cryptographic units such as but not limited to microcontrollers processors interfaces and or devices may be attached and or communicate with the SmartVent controller. A MC68HC16 microcontroller manufactured by Motorola Inc. may be used for and or within cryptographic units. The MC68HC16 microcontroller utilizes a 16 bit multiply and accumulate instruction in the 16 MHz configuration and requires less than one second to perform a 512 bit RSA private key operation. Cryptographic units support the authentication of communications from interacting agents as well as allowing for anonymous transactions. Cryptographic units may also be configured as part of the CPU. Equivalent microcontrollers and or processors may also be used. Other commercially available specialized cryptographic processors include Broadcom s CryptoNetX and other Security Processors nCipher s nShield SafeNet s Luna PCI e.g. 7100 series Semaphore Communications 40 MHz Roadrunner 184 Sun s Cryptographic Accelerators e.g. Accelerator 6000 PCIe Board Accelerator 500 Daughtercard Via Nano Processor e.g. L2100 L2200 U2400 line which is capable of performing 500 MB s of cryptographic instructions VLSI Technology s 33 MHz 6868 and or the like.

Generally any mechanization and or embodiment allowing a processor to affect the storage and or retrieval of information is regarded as memory . However memory is a fungible technology and resource thus any number of memory embodiments may be employed in lieu of or in concert with one another. It is to be understood that the SmartVent controller and or a computer systemization may employ various forms of memory . For example a computer systemization may be configured wherein the operation of on chip CPU memory e.g. registers RAM ROM and any other storage devices are provided by a paper punch tape or paper punch card mechanism however such an embodiment would result in an extremely slow rate of operation. In a typical configuration memory will include ROM RAM and a storage device . A storage device may be any conventional computer system storage. Storage devices may include a drum a fixed and or removable magnetic disk drive a magneto optical drive an optical drive i.e. Blueray CD ROM RAM Recordable R ReWritable RW DVD R RW HD DVD R RW etc. an array of devices e.g. Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID solid state memory devices USB memory solid state drives SSD etc. other processor readable storage mediums and or other devices of the like. Thus a computer systemization generally requires and makes use of memory.

The memory may contain a collection of program and or database components and or data such as but not limited to operating system component s operating system information server component s information server user interface component s user interface Web browser component s Web browser database s mail server component s mail client component s cryptographic server component s cryptographic server the SmartVent component s and or the like i.e. collectively a component collection . These components may be stored and accessed from the storage devices and or from storage devices accessible through an interface bus. Although non conventional program components such as those in the component collection typically are stored in a local storage device they may also be loaded and or stored in memory such as peripheral devices RAM remote storage facilities through a communications network ROM various forms of memory and or the like.

The operating system component is an executable program component facilitating the operation of the SmartVent controller. Typically the operating system facilitates access of I O network interfaces peripheral devices storage devices and or the like. The operating system may be a highly fault tolerant scalable and secure system such as Apple Macintosh OS X Server AT T Plan 9 Be OS Unix and Unix like system distributions such as AT T s UNIX Berkley Software Distribution BSD variations such as FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD and or the like Linux distributions such as Red Hat Ubuntu and or the like and or the like operating systems. However more limited and or less secure operating systems also may be employed such as Apple Macintosh OS IBM OS 2 Microsoft DOS Microsoft Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT Vista XP Server Palm OS and or the like. An operating system may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or the like. Most frequently the operating system communicates with other program components user interfaces and or the like. For example the operating system may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. The operating system once executed by the CPU may enable the interaction with communications networks data I O peripheral devices program components memory user input devices and or the like. The operating system may provide communications protocols that allow the SmartVent controller to communicate with other entities through a communications network . Various communication protocols may be used by the SmartVent controller as a subcarrier transport mechanism for interaction such as but not limited to multicast TCP IP UDP unicast and or the like.

An information server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The information server may be a conventional Internet information server such as but not limited to Apache Software Foundation s Apache Microsoft s Internet Information Server and or the like. The information server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Active Server Page ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET Common Gateway Interface CGI scripts dynamic D hypertext markup language HTML FLASH Java JavaScript Practical Extraction Report Language PERL Hypertext Pre Processor PHP pipes Python wireless application protocol WAP WebObjects and or the like. The information server may support secure communications protocols such as but not limited to File Transfer Protocol FTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS Secure Socket Layer SSL messaging protocols e.g. America Online AOL Instant Messenger AIM Application Exchange APEX ICQ Internet Relay Chat IRC Microsoft Network MSN Messenger Service Presence and Instant Messaging Protocol PRIM Internet Engineering Task Force s IETF s Session Initiation Protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE open XML based Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP i.e. Jabber or Open Mobile Alliance s OMA s Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS Yahoo Instant Messenger Service and or the like. The information server provides results in the form of Web pages to Web browsers and allows for the manipulated generation of the Web pages through interaction with other program components. After a Domain Name System DNS resolution portion of an HTTP request is resolved to a particular information server the information server resolves requests for information at specified locations on the SmartVent controller based on the remainder of the HTTP request. For example a request such as http 123.124.125.126 myInformation.html might have the IP portion of the request 123.124.125.126 resolved by a DNS server to an information server at that IP address that information server might in turn further parse the http request for the myInformation.html portion of the request and resolve it to a location in memory containing the information myInformation.html. Additionally other information serving protocols may be employed across various ports e.g. FTP communications across port and or the like. An information server may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the information server communicates with the SmartVent database operating systems other program components user interfaces Web browsers and or the like.

Access to the SmartVent database may be achieved through a number of database bridge mechanisms such as through scripting languages as enumerated below e.g. CGI and through inter application communication channels as enumerated below e.g. CORBA WebObjects etc. . Any data requests through a Web browser are parsed through the bridge mechanism into appropriate grammars as required by the SmartVent. In one embodiment the information server would provide a Web form accessible by a Web browser. Entries made into supplied fields in the Web form are tagged as having been entered into the particular fields and parsed as such. The entered terms are then passed along with the field tags which act to instruct the parser to generate queries directed to appropriate tables and or fields. In one embodiment the parser may generate queries in standard SQL by instantiating a search string with the proper join select commands based on the tagged text entries wherein the resulting command is provided over the bridge mechanism to the SmartVent as a query. Upon generating query results from the query the results are passed over the bridge mechanism and may be parsed for formatting and generation of a new results Web page by the bridge mechanism. Such a new results Web page is then provided to the information server which may supply it to the requesting Web browser.

Also an information server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

Computer interfaces in some respects are similar to automobile operation interfaces. Automobile operation interface elements such as steering wheels gearshifts and speedometers facilitate the access operation and display of automobile resources and status. Computer interaction interface elements such as check boxes cursors menus scrollers and windows collectively and commonly referred to as widgets similarly facilitate the access capabilities operation and display of data and computer hardware and operating a system resources and status. Operation interfaces are commonly called user interfaces. Graphical user interfaces GUIs such as the Apple Macintosh Operating System s Aqua IBM s OS 2 Microsoft s Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT XP Vista 7 i.e. Aero Unix s X Windows e.g. which may include additional Unix graphic interface libraries and layers such as K Desktop Environment KDE mythTV and GNU Network Object Model Environment GNOME web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript etc. interface libraries such as but not limited to Dojo jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us SWFObject Yahoo User Interface any of which may be used and provide a baseline and means of accessing and displaying information graphically to users.

A user interface component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The user interface may be a conventional graphic user interface as provided by with and or atop operating systems and or operating environments such as already discussed. The user interface may allow for the display execution interaction manipulation and or operation of program components and or system facilities through textual and or graphical facilities. The user interface provides a facility through which users may affect interact and or operate a computer system. A user interface may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the user interface communicates with operating systems other program components and or the like. The user interface may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

A Web browser component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The Web browser may be a conventional hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator. Secure Web browsing may be supplied with 128 bit or greater encryption by way of HTTPS SSL and or the like. Web browsers allowing for the execution of program components through facilities such as ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript web browser plug in APIs e.g. FireFox Safari Plug in and or the like APIs and or the like. Web browsers and like information access tools may be integrated into PDAs cellular telephones and or other mobile devices. A Web browser may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the Web browser communicates with information servers operating systems integrated program components e.g. plug ins and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. Also in place of a Web browser and information server a combined application may be developed to perform similar operations of both. The combined application would similarly affect the obtaining and the provision of information to users user agents and or the like from the SmartVent enabled nodes. The combined application may be nugatory on systems employing standard Web browsers.

A mail server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail server may be a conventional Internet mail server such as but not limited to sendmail Microsoft Exchange and or the like. The mail server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP pipes Python WebObjects and or the like. The mail server may support communications protocols such as but not limited to Internet message access protocol IMAP Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP3 simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and or the like. The mail server can route forward and process incoming and outgoing mail messages that have been sent relayed and or otherwise traversing through and or to the SmartVent.

Access to the SmartVent mail may be achieved through a number of APIs offered by the individual Web server components and or the operating system.

Also a mail server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses.

A mail client component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail client may be a conventional mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Outlook Express Mozilla Thunderbird and or the like. Mail clients may support a number of transfer protocols such as IMAP Microsoft Exchange POP3 SMTP and or the like. A mail client may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the mail client communicates with mail servers operating systems other mail clients and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses. Generally the mail client provides a facility to compose and transmit electronic mail messages.

A cryptographic server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU cryptographic processor cryptographic processor interface cryptographic processor device and or the like. Cryptographic processor interfaces will allow for expedition of encryption and or decryption requests by the cryptographic component however the cryptographic component alternatively may run on a conventional CPU. The cryptographic component allows for the encryption and or decryption of provided data. The cryptographic component allows for both symmetric and asymmetric e.g. Pretty Good Protection PGP encryption and or decryption. The cryptographic component may employ cryptographic techniques such as but not limited to digital certificates e.g. X.509 authentication framework digital signatures dual signatures enveloping password access protection public key management and or the like. The cryptographic component will facilitate numerous encryption and or decryption security protocols such as but not limited to checksum Data Encryption Standard DES Elliptical Curve Encryption ECC International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Message Digest MD5 which is a one way hash operation passwords Rivest Cipher RC5 Rijndael RSA which is an Internet encryption and authentication system that uses an algorithm developed in 1977 by Ron Rivest Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman Secure Hash Algorithm SHA Secure Socket Layer SSL Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS and or the like. Employing such encryption security protocols the SmartVent may encrypt all incoming and or outgoing communications and may serve as node within a virtual private network VPN with a wider communications network. The cryptographic component facilitates the process of security authorization whereby access to a resource is inhibited by a security protocol wherein the cryptographic component effects authorized access to the secured resource. In addition the cryptographic component may provide unique identifiers of content e.g. employing and MD5 hash to obtain a unique signature for an digital audio file. A cryptographic component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. The cryptographic component supports encryption schemes allowing for the secure transmission of information across a communications network to enable the SmartVent component to engage in secure transactions if so desired. The cryptographic component facilitates the secure accessing of resources on the SmartVent and facilitates the access of secured resources on remote systems i.e. it may act as a client and or server of secured resources. Most frequently the cryptographic component communicates with information servers operating systems other program components and or the like. The cryptographic component may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The SmartVent database component may be embodied in a database and its stored data. The database is a stored program component which is executed by the CPU the stored program component portion configuring the CPU to process the stored data. The database may be a conventional fault tolerant relational scalable secure database such as Oracle or Sybase. Relational databases are an extension of a flat file. Relational databases consist of a series of related tables. The tables are interconnected via a key field. Use of the a key field allows the combination of the tables by indexing against the key field i.e. the key fields act as dimensional pivot points for combining information from various tables. Relationships generally identify links maintained between tables by matching primary keys. Primary keys represent fields that uniquely identify the rows of a table in a relational database. More precisely they uniquely identify rows of a table on the one side of a one to many relationship.

Alternatively the SmartVent database may be implemented using various standard data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table and or the like. Such data structures may be stored in memory and or in structured files. In another alternative an object oriented database may be used such as Frontier ObjectStore Poet Zope and or the like. Object databases can include a number of object collections that are grouped and or linked together by common attributes they may be related to other object collections by some common attributes. Object oriented databases perform similarly to relational databases with the exception that objects are not just pieces of data but may have other types of capabilities encapsulated within a given object. If the SmartVent database is implemented as a data structure the use of the SmartVent database may be integrated into another component such as the SmartVent component . Also the database may be implemented as a mix of data structures objects and relational structures. Databases may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing techniques. Portions of databases e.g. tables may be exported and or imported and thus decentralized and or integrated.

In one embodiment the database component includes several tables . A user table includes fields such as but not limited to a userID homeServerID homeDeviceIDs SmartVentIDs and or the like. The user table may support and or track multiple entity accounts on a SmartVent. A SmartVent table includes fields such as but not limited to SmartVentIDs homeServerID sensorID sensorValue calibrationID PAN ID OperatingPAN ID NetworkID Address GPS BeaconID BeaconLocation userID and or the like. A calibration table includes fields such as but not limited to a calibrationID calibrationValues SmartVentIDs and or the like. A room table includes fields such as but not limited to roomID roomType SmartVentIDs and or the like. A location table includes fields such as but not limited to locationID locationType roomIDs SmartVentIDs and or the like. A period type table includes fields such as but not limited to period typeID periodType periodTypelntervalThreshold periodTypeDuration periodValue and or the like.

In one embodiment the SmartVent database may interact with other database systems. For example employing a distributed database system queries and data access by search SmartVent component may treat the combination of the SmartVent database an integrated data security layer database as a single database entity.

In one embodiment user programs may contain various user interface primitives which may serve to update the SmartVent. Also various accounts may require custom database tables depending upon the environments and the types of clients the SmartVent may need to serve. It should be noted that any unique fields may be designated as a key field throughout. In an alternative embodiment these tables have been decentralized into their own databases and their respective database controllers i.e. individual database controllers for each of the above tables . Employing standard data processing techniques one may further distribute the databases over several computer systemizations and or storage devices. Similarly configurations of the decentralized database controllers may be varied by consolidating and or distributing the various database components . The SmartVent may be configured to keep track of various settings inputs and parameters via database controllers.

The SmartVent database may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the SmartVent database communicates with the SmartVent component other program components and or the like. The database may contain retain and provide information regarding other nodes and data.

The SmartVent component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. In one embodiment the SmartVent component incorporates any and or all combinations of the aspects of the SmartVent that was discussed in the previous figures. As such the SmartVent affects accessing obtaining and the provision of information services transactions and or the like across various communications networks. The features and embodiments of the SmartVent discussed herein increase network efficiency by reducing data transfer requirements the use of more efficient data structures and mechanisms for their transfer and storage. As a consequence more data may be transferred in less time and latencies with regard to transactions are also reduced. In many cases such reduction in storage transfer time bandwidth requirements latencies etc. will reduce the capacity and structural infrastructure requirements to support the SmartVent s features and facilities and in many cases reduce the costs energy consumption requirements and extend the life of SmartVent s underlying infrastructure this has the added benefit of making the SmartVent more reliable. Similarly many of the features and mechanisms are designed to be easier for users to use and access thereby broadening the audience that may enjoy employ and exploit the feature sets of the SmartVent such ease of use also helps to increase the reliability of the SmartVent. In addition the feature sets include heightened security as noted via the Cryptographic components and throughout making access to the features and data more reliable and secure

The SmartVent transforms user desired environmental setting and SmartVent measurement inputs via SmartVent components e.g. calibration and adjustment components into SmartVent adjustment messages and environmental change outputs.

The SmartVent component enabling access of information between nodes may be developed by employing standard development tools and languages such as but not limited to Apache components Assembly ActiveX binary executables ANSI Objective C C and or .NET database adapters CGI scripts Java JavaScript mapping tools procedural and object oriented development tools PERL PHP Python shell scripts SQL commands web application server extensions web development environments and libraries e.g. Microsoft s ActiveX Adobe AIR FLEX FLASH AJAX D HTML Dojo Java a JavaScript jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP SWFObject Yahoo User Interface and or the like WebObjects and or the like. In one embodiment the SmartVent server employs a cryptographic server to encrypt and decrypt communications. The SmartVent component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the SmartVent component communicates with the SmartVent database operating systems other program components and or the like. The SmartVent may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The structure and or operation of any of the SmartVent node controller components may be combined consolidated and or distributed in any number of ways to facilitate development and or deployment. Similarly the component collection may be combined in any number of ways to facilitate deployment and or development. To accomplish this one may integrate the components into a common code base or in a facility that can dynamically load the components on demand in an integrated fashion.

The component collection may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing and or development techniques. Multiple instances of any one of the program components in the program component collection may be instantiated on a single node and or across numerous nodes to improve performance through load balancing and or data processing techniques. Furthermore single instances may also be distributed across multiple controllers and or storage devices e.g. databases. All program component instances and controllers working in concert may do so through standard data processing communication techniques.

The configuration of the SmartVent controller will depend on the context of system deployment. Factors such as but not limited to the budget capacity location and or use of the underlying hardware resources may affect deployment requirements and configuration. Regardless of if the configuration results in more consolidated and or integrated program components results in a more distributed series of program components and or results in some combination between a consolidated and distributed configuration data may be communicated obtained and or provided. Instances of components consolidated into a common code base from the program component collection may communicate obtain and or provide data. This may be accomplished through intra application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to data referencing e.g. pointers internal messaging object instance variable communication shared memory space variable passing and or the like.

If component collection components are discrete separate and or external to one another then communicating obtaining and or providing data with and or to other component components may be accomplished through inter application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to Application Program Interfaces API information passage distributed Component Object Model D COM Distributed Object Linking and Embedding D OLE and or the like Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA Jini local and remote application program interfaces JavaScript Object Notation JSON Remote Method Invocation RMI SOAP process pipes shared files and or the like. Messages sent between discrete component components for inter application communication or within memory spaces of a singular component for intra application communication may be facilitated through the creation and parsing of a grammar. A grammar may be developed by using development tools such as lex yacc XML and or the like which allow for grammar generation and parsing capabilities which in turn may form the basis of communication messages within and between components.

where Value1 is discerned as being a parameter because http is part of the grammar syntax and what follows is considered part of the post value. Similarly with such a grammar a variable Value1 may be inserted into an http post command and then sent. The grammar syntax itself may be presented as structured data that is interpreted and or otherwise used to generate the parsing mechanism e.g. a syntax description text file as processed by lex yacc etc. . Also once the parsing mechanism is generated and or instantiated it itself may process and or parse structured data such as but not limited to character e.g. tab delineated text HTML structured text streams XML and or the like structured data. In another embodiment inter application data processing protocols themselves may have integrated and or readily available parsers e.g. JSON SOAP and or like parsers that may be employed to parse e.g. communications data. Further the parsing grammar may be used beyond message parsing but may also be used to parse databases data collections data stores structured data and or the like. Again the desired configuration will depend upon the context environment and requirements of system deployment.

For example in some implementations the SmartVent controller may be executing a PHP script implementing a Secure Sockets Layer SSL socket server via the information server which listens to incoming communications on a server port to which a client may send data e.g. data encoded in JSON format. Upon identifying an incoming communication the PHP script may read the incoming message from the client device parse the received JSON encoded text data to extract information from the JSON encoded text data into PHP script variables and store the data e.g. client identifying information etc. and or extracted information in a relational database accessible using the Structured Query Language SQL . An exemplary listing written substantially in the form of PHP SQL commands to accept JSON encoded input data from a client device via a SSL connection parse the data to extract variables and store the data to a database is provided below 

Also the following resources may be used to provide example embodiments regarding SOAP parser implementation 

1 In one embodiment a thermally self balancing HVAC system is created maintained and optimized over time. The thermally self balancing HVAC system is an intelligent system which continues to improve and learn over time. Additional data is collected and analyzed through ongoing use of the system. For example daily habits within a the house seasonal variations the presence or absence of individuals throughout the day and over extended periods of time are collected and analyzed. Extended absences of household inhabitants as well as periods of greater at home attendance e.g. weekends are observed recorded and analyzed for greater HVAC system usage and efficiency.

2 In another embodiment a self learning vent register SLVR is used. Such a SLVR is an intelligent decision making system comprised of an electronically switchable SmartVent sensors and an algorithm for self optimization. Such an SLVR can be configured within a home in a master slave arrangement to communicate with the series of additional controllable SmartVents. This can be particularly effective to quickly establish a home network of SmartVents. In various embodiments this home network is configured to wirelessly communicate with any of a plurality of devices including mobile devices a home HVAC controller a Wi Fi hub for connection to some cloud based server an existing ZigBee system and or the like.

3 In another embodiment a system comprised of mesh networked ZigBee HVAC vents to use extant ZigBee thermistors and other sensors. Many ZigBee networks have latent temperature sensing abilities distributed throughout a home. Such a system that can leverage this data and track what rooms sensors are in as well as assist in determining the location and extended presence of home inhabitants. This can also be helpful in determining the existence of external factors which may impact ambient conditions. For example such a system may be configured to detect the opening and closing of external doors including the prolonged opening of a door the activation of a ceiling fan the opening and closing of a window etc. The presence of such external factors may then be analyzed to determine whether additional changes to the HVAC vents should be made. For example in a sophisticated mesh networked Zigbee system a determination could be made that the door to a particular room is closed and the windows to that room are open thereby causing the system to close all vents in that room to further conserve energy. When additional atmospheric measurements are taken in that room to reveal that the windows have in fact been closed the vents may then be opened and the room temperature adjusted accordingly.

4 In another embodiment an HVAC SmartVent with on board non contact thermometer is used to measure room temperature is used. Such an onboard non contact thermometer can be particularly effective in measuring room temperature when there is no airflow through the vents. In addition to a non contact thermometer the vents may also include an infrared sensor a motion sensor a Wi Fi Bluetooth detection sensor to detect the presence absence of the mobile device and the like.

5 In another embodiment an HVAC SmartVent with a slider mechanism to accomplish occlusion and reduce space is used to create room for various electronics . In other embodiments all HVAC SmartVents are so configured so as to reduce manufacturing costs whereby master vents include more enhanced electronic modules and slave vents would include more rudimentary electronic modules.

6 in another embodiment the HVAC vent is configured with cogeneration of power via one or more of the following a wind belt turbine DC to DC boost conversion a thermally regenerative module powered by the temperature differential between the air flowing thru the vent and the ambient room temperature etc.

In so configuring the HVAC vents the battery power needed to remotely operate the vent is potentially fully rechargeable or at least substantially prolonged .

7 An HVAC SmartVent with air quality diagnostic sensors and air purification functionality can use a UV lamp to purify the air.

8 In another embodiment the present application creates a diagnostic tool for HVAC systems. Such a diagnostic tool is particularly useful for HVAC installers contractors. Such a system could be used to diagnose problems within an existing HVAC system and could lead to various suggested enhancements to such a system.

Given a SmartVent system that can measure the delivered air speed and temperature as well as ambient room temperature knowing the cross sectional area of the outlet one can determine the volumetric flow rate of air out the vent. If one were to install an intelligent vent in every outlet of forced air ventilation network it would be possible to map out the duct system residential or commercial . This is a useful ability to have in the diagnosis of a existing problems or making assessments regarding upgrade and or replacements. As a diagnostic tool this would help to pinpoint blocked or leaky vents and ducts. It may be useful for more accurately sizing a furnaces and heat pumps which lends to greater efficiency. Using temperature measurements at the ducts one can possibly calculate heat losses between the furnace and outlet as well as to pinpoint the existence of uninsulated ducts particularly in external walls . In addition one should be able to identify over conditioned leaky or otherwise problematic rooms.

9 In other embodiments a network of remotely connected HVAC SmartVents which provide energy savings by collecting data from randomized test days use data from previous years periods of time etc.

10 In other embodiments an intelligent HVAC SmartVent can sense the presence of people within a room thru one or more of the following ZigBee interference router packet sniffing using the non contact thermometer packet sniffing read DHCP profiles and log when devices are active or when mobile devices are present ZigBee signal strength and presence detection through Wi Fi non contact thermometer presence detection etc.

11 In other embodiments an HVAC SmartVent is used to combine temperature and humidity measurement into a comfort measurement using an Atmel or ZigBee thermistor to gradient balance the non contact thermometer. Such unity measurements may also be communicated back to a humidifier within the HVAC system. In the absence of such a humidifier recommendations can be made to the home user or a monitoring system associated with the cloud based service to install such a humidifying system.

12 In other embodiments a web based survey can be created either manually or automatically for homeowners surveying room by room comfort details which creates a customized schedule of automated HVAC vent open close schedules within a home. Customized recommendations can be made to the homeowner after an appropriate period of time for measuring ambient conditions throughout the home. These recommendations can be accepted or modified by the homeowner on a dynamic basis.

13 In another embodiment a network of electronic HVAC SmartVen system uses a a one touch away button for putting the system in an energy conservation mode without changing the thermostat settings. Such a system may monitor outside temperature conditions to assure that appropriate temperature is maintained in the home to prevent pipes from freezing high humidity levels within the home e.g. to prevent the build up of mold within the home appropriate temperatures for pets and plants within the home and the like

14 In another embodiment a method to dynamically reduce the effective cooling heating volume within a home HVAC system is created. By measuring airflow within various rooms as well as the presence of various individuals throughout the home over time the system may automatically close certain events throughout the home and or provided suggestions to the homeowner for closing various doors and windows throughout the home at various points in the day thereby isolating certain rooms and reducing volume within the home for cooling heating. In particularly sophisticated embodiments of the present invention the system uses automatic door closing elements to achieve such an automatic reduction in volume within the home.

c. evaluating the first signal to determine a first distance from a first location to the electronic device 

e. evaluating the second signal to determine a second distance from the first location to the device and

f. determining if a difference between the first distance and the second distance is above a first threshold.

2. The computerized method of embodiment 1 wherein the first signal and the second signal are each responsive to transmitted test signals.

3. The computerized method of embodiment 1 wherein the first threshold is a difference attributable to error in an evaluation.

4. The computerized method of embodiment 1 further comprising sending a signal to open a vent register if the difference between the first distance and the second distance is above the first threshold.

5. The computerized method of embodiment 4 further comprising sending a signal to close the vent register if no signal is received from the device for an amount of time above a second threshold.

6. The computerized method of embodiment 1 wherein the evaluation of each of the first signal and the second signal comprises assessing the Received Signal Strength RSS of the corresponding signal.

7. The computerized method of embodiment 6 wherein the evaluation further comprises comparing the first signal and the second signal to a standard deviation and average of distances determined from signals received from the device over time.

8. The computerized method of embodiment 1 wherein the receiving of the first signal and the receiving of the second signal are within 10 minutes of each other.

c. identifying a first device of the devices responsive to the evaluation of the location within the location at one of the first time and the second time 

d. determining that the device was not present or was not responsive to the evaluation of the zone at the other of the first time and the second time.

10. The computerized method of embodiment 9 further comprising sending a signal to open a vent register if the first device is present at the second time and not at the first time and sending a signal to close a vent register if the first device is present at the first a time and not the second time.

11. The computerized method of embodiment 10 wherein the first device is identified as a mobile device based on meta data.

12. The computerized method of embodiment 9 further comprising evaluating the location for the presence of devices over time and recording presence data regarding the presence and absence of the first device.

13. The computerized method of embodiment 12 wherein the first device is identified as a mobile device based on an evaluation of time periods in which the first is present in the zone.

14. The computerized method of embodiment 12 further comprising evaluating the presence data to determine if the first device is actively used or passively used.

15. The computerized method of embodiment 14 further comprising determining if the presence data indicates the presence of a human at the second time.

16. The computerized method of embodiment 12 further comprising evaluating recorded presence data regarding the presence and absence of a second device.

17. The computerized method of embodiment 16 further comprising evaluating the presence data to determine if the presence of the first electronic device indicates human presence.

18. The computerized method of embodiment 17 wherein the evaluating of the presence data comprises comparing the presence data to a data template indicating human presence.

20. The vent register unit of embodiment 19 wherein the at least one blocker is a plate that slides relative to the plurality of air flow openings.

21. The vent register unit of embodiment 19 wherein the at least one blocker is a plurality of louvers.

22. The vent register unit of embodiment 19 further comprising a power generator for generating power for the actuator.

24. The vent register unit of embodiment 22 wherein the power generator utilizes a DC to DC boost conversion.

25. The vent register unit of embodiment 19 further comprising a delivered air speed sensor for determining evaluating the performance of the at least one blocker.

f. the volumetric air flow at a first vent register is compared to an expected volumetric air flow at the first vent register.

27. The HVAC diagnostic system of embodiment 26 further comprising a transmitter for transmitting information to a user and wherein the transmitter transmits alert upon detection of a discrepancy between volumetric air flow and expected volumetric airflow based on an average airspeed and a standard deviation.

28. The HVAC diagnostic system of embodiment 27 wherein the average airspeed and the standard deviation are for each vent register and are calculated by the processor.

29. The HVAC diagnostic system of embodiment 27 wherein the average airspeed and the standard deviation are local national or global averages.

30. The HVAC diagnostic system of embodiment 29 wherein the average airspeed and the standard deviation are calculated by a computerized system associated with the HVAC diagnostic system.

c. A processor for determining a temperature associated with each vent register based on the temperature sensors 

e. the temperature associated with a first vent register is compared to an expected temperature associated with the first vent register.

32. The HVAC diagnostic system of embodiment 31 wherein the expected temperature is determined based on the actual temperature recorded associated with a second vent register in a different diagnostic zone by a corresponding temperature sensor.

33. The HVAC diagnostic system of embodiment 31 wherein the expected temperature is determined based on an assigned temperature for the first vent register.

34. The HVAC diagnostic system of embodiment 31 wherein the associated temperature sensor is a device external to the vent register and is associated with the vent register unit using a network.

35. The HVAC diagnostic system of embodiment 34 wherein the associated temperature sensor is a gradient balanced non contact thermometer.

39. The apparatus of embodiment 19 wherein each of said plurality of smart HVAC vents are disposed in wireless communication with one another.

40. The apparatus of embodiment 22 wherein said plurality of smart HVAC vents comprise one master smart HVAC vent said master smart HVAC vent including a processor for implementing said calibrating receiving analyzing and transmitting functions.

44. The medium of embodiment 24 wherein each of said plurality of smart HVAC vents are disposed in wireless communication with one another.

45. The medium of embodiment 27 wherein said plurality of smart HVAC vents comprise one master smart HVAC vent said master smart HVAC vent including a processor for implementing said calibrating receiving analyzing and transmitting functions.

49. The system of embodiment 29 wherein each of said plurality of smart HVAC vents are disposed in wireless communication with one another.

50. The system of embodiment 32 wherein said plurality of smart HVAC vents comprise one master smart HVAC vent said master smart HVAC vent including a processor for implementing said calibrating receiving analyzing and transmitting functions.

In order to address various issues and advance the art the entirety of this application for SmartVent and Atmospheric Controller Apparatuses Methods and Systems including the Cover Page Title Headings Field Background Summary Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description Claims Abstract Figures Appendices and otherwise shows by way of illustration various embodiments in which the claimed innovations may be practiced. The advantages and features of the application are of a representative sample of embodiments only and are not exhaustive and or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in understanding and teach the claimed principles. It should be understood that they are not representative of all claimed innovations. As such certain aspects of the disclosure have not been discussed herein. That alternate embodiments may not have been presented for a specific portion of the innovations or that further undescribed alternate embodiments may be available for a portion is not to be considered a disclaimer of those alternate embodiments. It will be appreciated that many of those undescribed embodiments incorporate the same principles of the innovations and others are equivalent. Thus it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and functional logical operational organizational structural and or topological modifications may be made without departing from the scope and or spirit of the disclosure. As such all examples and or embodiments are deemed to be non limiting throughout this disclosure. Also no inference should be drawn regarding those embodiments discussed herein relative to those not discussed herein other than it is as such for purposes of reducing space and repetition. For instance it is to be understood that the logical and or topological structure of any combination of any program components a component collection other components and or any present feature sets as described in the figures and or throughout are not limited to a fixed operating order and or arrangement but rather any disclosed order is exemplary and all equivalents regardless of order are contemplated by the disclosure. Similarly descriptions of embodiments disclosed throughout this disclosure any reference to direction or orientation is merely intended for convenience of description and is not intended in any way to limit the scope of described embodiments. Relative terms such as lower upper horizontal vertical above below up down top and bottom as well as derivative thereof e.g. horizontally downwardly upwardly etc. should not be construed to limit embodiments and instead again are offered for convenience of description of orientation. These relative descriptors are for convenience of description only and do not require that any embodiments be constructed or operated in a particular orientation unless explicitly indicated as such. Terms such as attached affixed connected coupled interconnected and similar may refer to a relationship wherein structures are secured or attached to one another either directly or indirectly through intervening structures as well as a both movable or rigid attachments or relationships unless expressly described otherwise. Furthermore it is to be understood that such features are not limited to serial execution but rather any number of threads processes services servers and or the like that may execute asynchronously concurrently in parallel simultaneously synchronously and or the like are contemplated by the disclosure. As such some of these features may be mutually contradictory in that they cannot be simultaneously present in a single embodiment. Similarly some features are applicable to one aspect of the innovations and inapplicable to others. In addition the disclosure includes other innovations not presently claimed. Applicant reserves all rights in those presently unclaimed innovations including the right to claim such innovations file additional applications continuations continuations in part divisions and or the like thereof. As such it should be understood that advantages embodiments examples functional features logical operational organizational structural topological and or other aspects of the disclosure are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or limitations on equivalents to the claims. It is to be understood that depending on the particular needs and or characteristics of a SmartVent individual and or enterprise user database configuration and or relational model data type data transmission and or network framework syntax structure and or the like various embodiments of the SmartVent may be implemented that enable a great deal of flexibility and customization. For example aspects of the SmartVent may be adapted for residential home applications while yet others may be used in conjunction with enterprise campus HVAC environmental systems. While various embodiments and discussions of the SmartVent have included discussions of home applications however it is to be understood that the embodiments described herein may be readily configured and or customized for a wide variety of other applications and or implementations.

