---

title: Multi-band cable antenna with irregular reactive loading
abstract: An antenna includes a first antenna section that can be joined to an antenna feed. The first section has conductive elements in series with reactive loads. The reactive loads are positioned with a regular spacing. The reactive loads and spacing are optimized for operation of the first section at the highest frequency. Additional antenna sections having successively lower frequencies are joined in series to the first antenna section. Each additional section has conductive elements joined in series with reactive loads at a particular spacing. The additional sections spacing and reactive loads are provided to work in conjunction with the higher frequency antenna sections to optimize the antenna for an additional frequency. A method for making such an antenna is further provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09553368&OS=09553368&RS=09553368
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09553368
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141104
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention is directed to a linear buoyant antenna and a method for designing such an antenna to provide two different band capabilities in a single element.

Buoyant Cable Antennas BCAs are a class of antennas unique to maritime applications. They consist of a straight insulated wire surrounded by a positively buoyant jacket material. The electrical performance of these antennas is somewhat limited owing to the underlying physics involved and several antennas are often needed to obtain broadband frequency coverage. The present invention seeks to overcome this limitation by providing optimal multi band performance in one single conductor antenna element.

Previous work on BCA improvements has led to antennas that have improved performance in the HF band e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 868 833 entitled Ultra wideband buoyant cable antenna element. This improvement was only possible in a single portion of the radio spectrum and does not allow for improved performance in both the High Frequency HF and Very High Frequency VHF bands.

The use of a modular approach is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 8 203 495 entitled Modular VLF LF and HF buoyant cable antenna and method. This teaches that low frequency signals can be received on the braid of a piece of coaxial cable that is connected in series with the HF antenna. The method taught only allows for improvements the performance of the HF antenna.

It is a first object of the present invention to provide an antenna capable of operating in several bands 

Accordingly there is provided an antenna that includes a first antenna section that can be joined to an antenna feed. The first section has conductive elements in series with reactive loads. The reactive loads are positioned with a regular spacing. The reactive loads and spacing are optimized for operation of the first section at the highest frequency. Additional antenna sections having successively lower frequencies are joined in series to the first antenna section. Each additional section has conductive elements joined in series with reactive loads at a particular spacing. The additional sections spacing and reactive loads are provided to work in conjunction with the higher frequency antenna sections to optimize the antenna for an additional frequency. A method for making such an antenna is further provided.

The present invention overcomes the limitations of prior antennas by employing an irregular loading profile along the length of a single conductor antenna. A cross sectional view of the antenna is given in . The antenna consists of an insulated solid conductor of radius a. Preferably this element is made from copper however any highly conductive metal could be used. The conductor is surrounded by a low density polymer foam jacket of circular cross section and of radius b. The axis of the conductor is arranged to be coincident with the axis of the polymer foam jacket so that the conductor is centered in the jacket . The polymer jacket is engineered to have as low a specific gravity and dielectric constant as possible. A low specific gravity allows improved flotation. A low dielectric constant is essential for optimal RF performance. Reactive elements not shown see at A B N are positioned in contact with wire at the axis of jacket .

The reactive loads A B . . . N have a reactance as a function of frequency that is chosen in conjunction with their spacing d d. . . din such a manner as to control how current flows along the length of the antenna in different bands so as to facilitate improved gain performance in those bands. The linear dimension of reactive loads A B . . . N is actually very small and does not have any effect on spacings. The complicated nature of the loading often requires the use of optimization code for this purpose a multiobjective genetic algorithm has been developed which allows the optimal gain bandwidth tradeoff to be mapped. Other types of optimization can be performed utilizing general purpose computing resources.

The first section A was optimized for maximum gain in the VHF band near 110 MHz and the second section B was optimized to work in concert with the first section A to give optimal gain in the HF band focused on the frequencies in the band from about 20 24 MHz. These frequencies are dependent on the project and other frequencies can be used. This method can be used to shift the focus frequencies elsewhere in the band as needed by adjusting the distances and reactive load values. Preferably this is performed by utilizing the multiobjective genetic algorithm as discussed previously however other methods can be utilized.

In the computed gain of this antenna in the HF band is shown as solid line . For reference the computed gain of a straight insulated antenna is shown as dashed line to illustrate the improvement in gain that can be obtained utilizing reactive loads. The noise at the lower frequencies in is caused by computational issues in modeling. It is expected that the actual gain will be smoother in this frequency range. Note that the data in each plot of and have been normalized to a maximum value of 0 dB. In the computed gain of this antenna in the VHF band as shown as solid line . The computed gain of the straight insulated antenna is shown as dashed line . These graphs indicate that gain is improved by as much as 5 dB at some frequencies.

It is an important aspect of this embodiment that the VHF section precedes the HF section. In other words the VHF section must sit between the feed and the HF section. Otherwise the current from the feed is attenuated by the HF section and reduces the realized gain of the antenna in the VHF band.

In the more general form of this invention depicted previously in a similar idea holds true. The first section A of the antenna closest to the feed is the section that functions in the highest frequency band while the second section B functions in concert with the first section A to operate in the next highest band etc. so that the last section N operates in concert with all of the sections before it to function in the lowest frequency band.

Second section B includes conductor segments separated by reactive elements B. In this embodiment reactive elements B include an inductor wire in parallel with a capacitor . Reactive elements B are spaced apart a distance of d. The length reactive element spacings and reactive element values of second section B are designed with first section A to be responsive to a second operating frequency.

The third section C has reactive elements C separated by conductor segments at a distance of d. Reactive elements C are capacitors. Because third section C is the terminal section of antenna third section C does not need inductive elements to provide current to ensuing more distal sections. A terminator can be provided at the end of third section. When dealing with low frequencies terminator must have electrical contact with the environment. As before section C is designed for a particular frequency in conjunction with all of the other sections A and B between third section C and feed .

The irregular loading of the antenna conductor allows for the antenna to have optimized performance in more than one band of operation. This is a result that was not possible with a uniformly loaded antenna where each of the loads was the same component and all of the loads were equally spaced. The irregular loading approach allows one section of the antenna to be optimized for one band and then that portion along with the one that follows it can be optimized in a separate band of operation.

This type of antenna can take on several forms depending on the types of reactive loads that are used and the spacing between these loads. Many embodiments are possible including ones where the variation of reactance with position along the length of the antenna referred to as the loading profile of the antenna obeys a well defined mathematical relationship.

In the preferred embodiment the antenna has two sections one optimized for VHF performance and using the parallel connection of a single capacitor and a single inductor at each load position with a second section consisting of single capacitor loads uniformly spaced along the remaining length of the antenna.

In a second embodiment the antenna consists of a multiple sections each having reactive loads but where the product of the load capacitance and spacing on given section is one half that on the previous section. This implements an exponential taper in the loading profile and uses the method of the invention to improve the bandwidth of the antenna within a single band of operation. All of the sections except the final section must have components as part of the reactive loads that provide current to the sections further from the feed.

In a third embodiment the antenna consists of a multiple sections each having capacitive loads but where the product of the load capacitance and spacing on given section differs from that on the previous section by a fixed value LCdz. This implements a linear taper in the loading profile. As with the other embodiments the previous sections must have components that provide current to the sections further from the feed.

It will be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangement of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiments of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description only. It is not intended to be exhaustive nor to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modification and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of this invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

