---

title: Method and apparatus for initiating and data collection of single ended line test on customer premises equipment
abstract: According to certain aspects, embodiments of the invention relate to methods and apparatuses for performing diagnostics on a loop in a communications system. According to certain aspects, embodiments of the invention include performing SELT from a customer premises side of the loop. According to certain other aspects, embodiments of the invention address the issue of initiating a CPE side SELT procedure and also collecting the diagnostics data while a CPE is offline.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09461704&OS=09461704&RS=09461704
owner: Ikanos Communications, Inc.
number: 09461704
owner_city: Fremont
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140822
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Prov. Appln. No. 61 869 224 filed Aug. 23 2013 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to xDSL communication systems and more particularly to initiating and collecting data from CPE side SELT.

An xDSL communication system xDSL refers to various versions of digital subscriber line systems such as ADSL VDSL VDSL2 etc. consists of Central Office CO equipment i.e. DSLAM and customer premises equipment CPE using the twisted pair wire as a communication channel. In order to provide reliable service several test standards and metrics have been developed to measure quality of service QoS one such standard is referred to in G.996.2 as Single Ended Line Testing for DSL.

Single Ended Line Testing SELT is an offline diagnostics procedure and in general SELT is used at the central office side and is thereby controlled and initiated by the central office network management system. The CO side SELT diagnostics are initiated by the central office management system either on demand or periodically as required.

However it may be desirable to initiate a SELT procedure and collect the diagnostics data from the CPE side. Currently to initiate SELT on the CPE side a technician has to visit the customer premises and manually initiate such diagnostics and collect the data. This obviously is an expensive and time consuming task.

Accordingly there is a need in the art for techniques for a CPE to autonomously initiate and or perform diagnostics such as SELT from the CPE side.

According to certain aspects embodiments of the invention relate to methods and apparatuses for performing diagnostics on a loop in a communications system. According to certain aspects embodiments of the invention include performing SELT from a customer premises side of the loop. According to certain other aspects embodiments of the invention address the issue of initiating a CPE side SELT procedure and also collecting the diagnostics data while a CPE is offline.

In accordance with these and other aspects a method according to embodiments of the invention includes configuring a customer premises equipment CPE to initiate a single ended line test SELT procedure according to configuration parameters when the CPE is offline causing the CPE to perform the SELT procedure according to the configuration parameters and at the CPE collecting diagnostics data resulting from the performed SELT procedure.

The present invention will now be described in detail with reference to the drawings which are provided as illustrative examples of the invention so as to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Notably the figures and examples below are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention to a single embodiment but other embodiments are possible by way of interchange of some or all of the described or illustrated elements. Moreover where certain elements of the present invention can be partially or fully implemented using known components only those portions of such known components that are necessary for an understanding of the present invention will be described and detailed descriptions of other portions of such known components will be omitted so as not to obscure the invention. Embodiments described as being implemented in software should not be limited thereto but can include embodiments implemented in hardware or combinations of software and hardware and vice versa as will be apparent to those skilled in the art unless otherwise specified herein. In the present specification an embodiment showing a singular component should not be considered limiting rather the invention is intended to encompass other embodiments including a plurality of the same component and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise herein. Moreover applicants do not intend for any term in the specification or claims to be ascribed an uncommon or special meaning unless explicitly set forth as such. Further the present invention encompasses present and future known equivalents to the known components referred to herein by way of illustration.

According to certain aspects the present inventors recognize that performing SELT from the customer premises e.g. a home has a unique advantage of providing more insight and accurate information regarding loop topology and noise environment in house and near the house which is not accessible using the SELT diagnostic procedure on the CO end. The present inventors further recognize that SELT being an offline diagnostics procedure the central office management interface cannot control the CPE side SELT directly. However for the service providers CPE side SELT diagnostics can provide complementary information regarding the loop topology and noise environment near and inside the house. This additional information from the CPE can be quite valuable in terms of providing a holistic view of the communication channel and thereby improving the QoE for the end consumer and also reducing operating expenses. Accordingly there is a need for methods and apparatuses for initiating and performing CPE side SELT and conveying the results to the CO.

As set forth above in wired communication systems such as DSL cable modem etc. loop topology and noise diagnostics are often based on analyses of SELT data. For example CO management system can initiate diagnostics to characterize loop using SELT signals transmitted by CO modem on loop and reflected back to CO modem . Specifically in an example wherein system is operating according to VDSL2 a conventional SELT performed by CO modem can include continuously transmitting symbols e.g. modulated REVERB symbols each VDSL2 symbol period for a period of about 5 seconds to about 2 minutes and measuring the reflections i.e. obtaining S data from loop . It should be noted that other CPE s coupled to CO modem via other loops not shown can be operating in Showtime using the same symbol periods while CO modem performs SELT tests on loop . Similarly for noise environment analysis inside and near the customer premises SELT quiet line noise measurements can be performed by listening to noise on the line without transmitting anything on the line.

As shown in and in contrast to conventional approaches CPE device includes SELT apparatus for initiating and performing CPE side SELT according to aspects of the invention.

A block diagram illustrating an example SELT apparatus according to embodiments of the invention is shown in . As shown apparatus includes a SELT capture block analysis engine SELT initiate and control block SELT configuration data and SELT data .

SELT capture block includes functionality for forming SELT signals transmitting the signals on the loop measuring the reflections from the loop and providing the S reflection data to analysis engine . In embodiments SELT signals formed and transmitted by block can comprise symbols e.g. modulated REVERB symbols constructed from tones in one or more xDSL bands or utilizing a custom frequency range relevant to xDSL or other communications technology such as cable modem etc. As mentioned above similar or different frequency ranges can be utilized to perform SELT quiet line noise measurements for noise environment analysis as an example. SELT capture block can be implemented using techniques known to those skilled in the art and so further details thereof will be omitted here for sake of clarity of the invention.

Analysis engine receives the S reflection data from capture block . In embodiments engine analyzes the S reflection data using any conventional or proprietary method and stores results in SELT data . Example SELT analyses that can be performed include one or more of those described in co pending application Ser. nos. 14 339 862 14 341 538 and 14 341 576 the contents of each of which being incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. It should be noted that in some embodiments analysis engine is not included in CPE and or SELT data can include raw collected data that is provided to another device e.g. CO management system or a central analysis server such as one hosted in the Cloud for analysis.

SELT initiate and control block includes functionality for initiating the SELT capture and analysis performed by blocks and according to configurations stored in . SELT initiate and control block can optionally also include functionality for communicating with CO management system to provide SELT data to CO management system and or to receive SELT configuration data . In embodiments configuration data includes parameters for determining a time and or frequency and or power spectral density PSD of the transmit signal for initiating SELT.

As shown in according to aspects of the invention apparatus is incorporated in CPE device . In these and other embodiments CPE device as well as CO modem include DSL transceivers e.g. VX180 from Ikanos Communications Inc. having conventional processors chipsets firmware software etc. that implement communication services such as those defined by VDSL2 ADSL2 etc. Moreover in these and other embodiments apparatus can be implemented by adapting SELT functionality such as that provided by diagnostics suites such as SmartCPE provided by Ikanos Communications Inc. Those skilled in the art will be able to understand how to adapt such processors chipsets firmware software etc. to implement the SELT functionalities of the present invention after being taught by the above and following examples.

As an example embodiments of the invention can be implemented using an Application Programming Interface API to configure initiate and collect data from SELT diagnostics. To configure various parameters of SELT for loop topology and noise measurement the API can include a SeltConfig interface with the following but not limited to input parameters time duration of the test measurement frequency range used for such measurement transmit signal PSD used when probing for loop topology SELT type mode particular date and or day and or time and or periodicity of initiation. Here the parameter mode can be any or all of the constants which correspond to the initiation techniques described in more detail below and the parameter SELT type can select SELT measurement for loop topology probing and or SELT measurement for noise probing or both. These configuration parameters are persistent in memory unless they are explicitly commanded to be changed either manually or automatically by feedback from the analysis engine . The SeltConfig can also have an output parameter such as Status which indicates the current configuration settings. Similar interfaces can be used for initiating SELT and data collection which are used in accordance with the SeltConfig which configures the SELT parameters.

A flowchart illustrating an example CPE side SELT methodology that can be performed by apparatus according to embodiments of the invention is shown in .

As shown in a first step S parameters for initiating and performing CPE side SELT are configured in SELT configuration . In step S SELT initiate and control block determines from the configuration whether to initiate SELT. If so processing advances to step S where SELT capture block and analysis engine perform SELT and collect SELT data in store . This step S may include taking the CPE offline if it is currently online or in Showtime. In a final optional step S the SELT data is provided to CO management system and processing returns to step S. It should be noted that in addition to returning to step S and perhaps before step S processing may include returning the CPE to an online or Showtime state if appropriate.

Step S can include any conventional or proprietary SELT technique including those described in the co pending applications. Accordingly further details thereof will be omitted here for sake of clarity of the invention. Details of example implementations of the methodology performed in the other steps depicted in are provided below.

A first example implementation consists in step S of configuring apparatus to autonomously initiate and perform a SELT procedure with default configuration parameters stored in every time the CPE device is powered up. The output SELT data along with the configuration data are stored in the CPE memory along with an associated time stamp indicating the actual time when the diagnostics procedure was performed. The diagnostics data can be transferred by block to the central office management system via CO modem or any other third party management system once the CPE device is online and regains connectivity. In the event that connectivity is not resumed the diagnostics data can be accessed from the CPE device via local access e.g. service technician . For example the modem can include web server http interface or ftp server functionality e.g. incorporated into SELT initiate and control block by which a technician can interact with device to access and transfer the data using an Ethernet cable Wi Fi and conventional network protocols. Such web server http interface or ftp server functionality can additionally or alternatively be used to allow the CPE device to communicate data with third party or other management systems in the Cloud via the Internet.

A next example implementation consists in step S of configuring apparatus to autonomously initiate a SELT procedure with set configuration parameters stored in every time there is a line drop just before attempting a retrain. The output SELT data along with the configuration data are stored in the CPE memory along with an associated time stamp indicating the actual time when the diagnostics procedure was performed. The diagnostics data can be transferred to the central office management system via CO modem or any other third party management system once the CPE modem is online and regains connectivity. In the event that connectivity is not resumed the diagnostics data can be accessed from the CPE device via local access e.g. service technician similar to the implementation described above. For this example the configuration parameters for performing SELT can be communicated by the central office management system or third party management interface to apparatus e.g. SELT initiate and control block via conventional protocols such as CPE WAN Management Protocol CWMP i.e. TR 069 etc. In these and other embodiments the configuration parameters can also indicate whether or not to initiate SELT on the next line drop event.

A next example implementation consists in step S of configuring apparatus to periodically initiate the SELT procedure at specified time intervals with set configuration parameters stored in . The time interval or the time period including the configuration parameters can be configured by central office management system via CO modem or a third party management interface using an API such as the SetConfig interface described above. In embodiments SELT being an offline diagnostics procedure once the window to initiate SELT has arrived as determined in step S SELT initiate and control block can monitor user traffic and wait to take the CPE offline and initiate the SELT procedure during off peak hours and or when there is no or minimal user traffic.

A next example implementation consists in step S of remotely configuring apparatus initiate the SELT procedure on demand using a communicated set configuration parameters . In embodiments this example includes central office management system via CO modem or a third party management system instructing block via CWMP or other protocol to immediately or at a specified time initiate the SELT procedure with the communicated parameters. In cases where the line is not in Showtime or the modem is not able to immediately get access to the Internet the output diagnostics data along with the configuration data are stored in CPE memory along with an associated time stamp indicating the actual time when the diagnostics procedure was performed. The diagnostics data can then be transferred to the central office management system or any other third party management system once the CPE modem is online and regains connectivity. In the event that connectivity is not resumed the diagnostics data can be accessed from the CPE device via local access e.g. service technician similar to the implementation described above.

A next example implementation consists in step S of locally configuring apparatus to immediately initiate the CPE side SELT procedure using direct access to the CPE device . This example can be used during an installation procedure by a technician or at the time of a troubleshooting visit by the technician. The output diagnostics data along with the configuration data are accessed immediately by the local technician using direct access to the CPE device via a web page or any other http interface similar to that described above. The same diagnostics data can also be transferred by block to the central management system via CO modem once CPE device resumes connectivity.

It should be noted that the above example implementations are not mutually exclusive. For example some or all of these example methods can be performed by the same CPE device having a SELT apparatus according to embodiments of the invention over its lifetime.

Although the present invention has been particularly described with reference to the preferred embodiments thereof it should be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that changes and modifications in the form and details may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is intended that the appended claims encompass such changes and modifications.

