---

title: Dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking contacts
abstract: Embodiments dynamically aggregate and configure access to social networking contacts. A server system receives information from one or more users enrolled into the server system. The information includes a list of social networking accounts of which each of the users is a member, and a visibility status associated with each of social networking accounts. The server system provides a first list of social networking accounts having a first visibility status of a first user of the server system to a second user of the server system when the second user has a second list of social networking accounts that corresponds to the first list of social networking accounts that is set to the same visibility status as the first visibility status of the first list of social networking accounts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09654595&OS=09654595&RS=09654595
owner: Mayhem Development, LLC
number: 09654595
owner_city: Lebanon
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140121
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 755 050 filed on Jan. 22 2013 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

Social networking through the Internet allows individuals to communicate with other individuals in a timely and convenient manner. Some popular public social networking sites include Facebook Linkedin Myspace and Twitter . Once an individual becomes a member of one of these and other social networking sites it is typical to build a network of other members for business connections to renew old friendships to establish new friendships to discuss matters or hobbies and to connect with family members.

Social networking sites typically require an individual to have a device that connects to the Internet with the device being a computer using a browser or a provider specific computer or mobile device application. To become a member of a social networking site an individual navigates to the website and establishes an account by selecting a unique user identifier or name and a password. Once an account has been setup the individual may access the account by logging in using the user identifier and the password. An individual may be a member on multiple social networking sites. This requires that the individual establish an account on each social networking site. It is possible that the unique identifier on one site may not be available for selection on another site. If this occurs then the individual must remember multiple different identifiers and associated passwords for each social network site for which the individual becomes a member. This also complicates establishing connections in that the individual has to provide the different identifiers for each social network site to other individuals that want to connect to the individual on the various social network sites.

Some problems associated with being a member of a social network are how to select contacts or members that you want to be associated with and how to provide your contact information to other potential contacts. Although social network sites have the ability for you to invite other contacts it may be cumbersome or difficult to determine which individuals you want to connect with on each individual social network site that you have established a membership. It is also possible for various reasons that you may find it desirable that an individual not know or not find out that you are a member of a particular social networking site. However keeping track of this may be difficult if you become a member of numerous social networking sites. Another disadvantage to being on multiple social networking sites is that if a contact needs to be deleted from every social networking site then each social networking site must be accessed to remove that particular contact.

The existing systems fails to dynamically aggregate and configure access to social networking contacts to provide for selectivity as to who you may connect with on various social networking sites. Further the existing systems lack a mechanism to allow a user control as to which social networking sites another individual has knowledge of you being a member. The existing systems also fail to allow a user to easily remove an individual as a contact on multiple social networking sites.

In one form of the disclosure a system for dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking accounts is disclosed which comprises a server system for receiving information from one or more users enrolled into the server system the information comprising a list of social networking accounts that each of the users is a member and a visibility status associated with each of social networking accounts and the server system for providing a first list of social networking accounts having a first visibility status of a first user of the server system to a second user of the server system when the second user has a second list of social networking accounts that corresponds to the first list of social networking accounts that is set to the same visibility status as the first visibility status of the first list of social networking accounts.

In another form of the disclosure a system for dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking accounts is disclosed which comprises a server system for receiving information from one or more users enrolled into the server system the information comprising a list of social networking accounts that each of the users is a member and a visibility status associated with each of social networking accounts and the server system for providing a list of first user social networking accounts having a visibility status of a first user of the server system disclosed to a second user of the server system when the second user has a list of second user social networking accounts containing a networking account that corresponds to an account on the list of first user social networking accounts that is set to the same visibility status as the first user visibility status of the list of first user social networking accounts.

In another form of the disclosure a system for dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking accounts comprises a server system for receiving information from one or more users enrolled into the server system the information comprising a list of social networking accounts that each of the users is a member and a visibility status associated with each of social networking accounts and the server system for providing a first list of social networking accounts having a first visibility status of a first user of the server system to a second user of the server system when the second user has a second list of social networking accounts that corresponds to the first list of social networking accounts that is set to the same visibility status as the first visibility status of the first list of social networking accounts and a first customer device of the first user having a display screen and configured to run an application for the server system the application for transmitting the information comprising the first list of social networking accounts and the first visibility status of each account in the first list of social networking accounts to the server system and the first customer device for receiving various screens from the server system for display.

In yet another form of the disclosure a method for dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking accounts comprises operations for enrolling in a system for dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking contacts providing membership account information for each social networking account and setting a visibility status for each social networking account for each account which will be visible to others having a corresponding account set to the same visibility status.

In light of the foregoing comments it will be recognized that the disclosure provides a system and method for dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking contacts.

Aspects of the disclosure provide a system and method for dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking contacts in which information or data may be controlled or restricted by a user.

Aspects of the disclosure provide a system and method for dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking contacts in which various levels of information or data are visible to other users.

Aspects of the disclosure provide a system and method for dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking contacts in which various levels of visibility of information or data may be overridden to allow specific individuals access to the information or data.

Aspects of the disclosure provide a system and method for dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking contacts that provide the ability to delete a contact from every social networking site without having to access each site individually. For example a delete message transaction or command may be broadcast from an application to each of the social networking sites of the user. The message requests deletion within the social networking systems via a mutual interface between the application and these social networking systems.

Aspects of the disclosure are directed to a system and method for dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking contacts which serves as a centralized repository or hub for user social media membership management and monitoring of accounts and account activity.

Aspects of the disclosure also provide a system and method for dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking contacts that also provide access to individuals who are members of other organizations other than social networking sites.

Aspects of the disclosure are further directed to a system and method for dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking contacts that allow users to search and broadcast events such as conferences business meetings and other events among multiple social networking sites or organizations. For example an application in accordance with the disclosure creates various events from user input to broadcast to other users of the disclosure as well as broadcasting events to the user s individual social media accounts. Further a communications interface is exposed for external social media sites to originate and send the event to the application to have the event broadcasted therein even if the event originated in the external social media site.

Aspects of the disclosure provide a system and method for dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking contacts which is a flexible system in that any kind of interconnectivity of memberships such as social media online dating gaming offline hobby interests groups political groups conferences events and gatherings.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

This disclosure relates to a system and method for dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking contacts through the use of computing devices such as telecommunications devices. Exemplary computing devices include but are not limited to a computer a tablet and a mobile telephone.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like numbers refer to like items number identifies a system for dynamically aggregating and configuring social networking access contacts constructed according to the disclosure. With reference now to the system is shown to comprise a server system e.g. a management server system that is connected to a communications network such as the Internet via a connection . The server system may comprise a computer network that is capable of storing software programs and data. The server system may comprise a single computer system or a number of computer systems grouped together. The server system may include a database for storing information of users that enroll in the system . The database may contain information such as user name password phone number email address home address memberships at social networking sites and visibility status within the system for each social networking site. Further by way of example only the computer may be a computer having a microprocessor memory a hard drive having stored thereon an operating system and other software input devices such as a mouse or a keyboard a CD ROM drive and a floppy disk drive. Other ancillary devices may be included such as a printer a scanner a modem a router or other network devices that allow the server system to be connected to the Internet . The connection may take on various forms such as a telephone line cable integrated services digital network ISDN lines fiber optic lines wireless connections microwave radio satellites or other connection devices or means.

A customer device such as a computer a tablet a smart phone or any other device which is capable of communicating with the server system is also connected to the Internet by a connection . The connection may take on the same form or forms as the connection but is typically a wireless connection or a wireless fidelity WiFi connection. The customer device has the capability of having various programs such as software programs or software applications resident or stored in the device . One of the programs may be a web browser that allows for sending and receiving information to and from the server system . Another program may be an application that has been downloaded for a particular social network site. Further another application may be downloaded to the device by use of a camera not shown resident in the device that is capable of capturing an image or code through the use of a generic Quick Response QR code reader application already resident on the device . This particular QR application directs the device to a website to download the application . The application may prompt the user of the device to fill out various registration screens e.g. user interfaces displays etc. by inputting information through the device . It is also possible and contemplated to download the application or a software program directly from the social network site without having to use the QR application. It is also possible that the user of the device may set up an account directly at a website associated with the server system . In this manner a cloud based program at the server system is provided.

By way of further example only the customer device may be other devices such as an iPod touch a personal digital assistant PDA an iPad a device that has WiFi connectivity or other mobile communications device capable of sending and receiving data over a wireless network. Although not shown in any detail the customer device may have a microprocessor memory a hard drive having stored thereon an operating system and other software input devices such as a mouse or a keyboard a CD ROM drive and a floppy disk drive. Other ancillary devices may be included or attached to the customer device such as a printer a scanner a modem a router or other network devices that allow the device to be connected to the Internet . Further although one customer device is illustrated and discussed it is possible and anticipated that more than one customer device may be connected to the server system over the Internet . It is also possible that a user of the system may use different devices to access the server system . For example the user may not be near a computer and the user has to use a smart phone to access the server system .

The server system has a software platform or program therein that is designed to enhance and facilitate person to person interconnectivity by aggregating filtering and exposing multiple users disparate social media memberships by user defined information sharing policies with other users associated with the server system . The server system may have a website associated with it that has a web page or home page that acts as a portal to connect various individuals or members of the server system . Once each member is connected to the server system information may be displayed as a user interface to the member. The user interface may contain relevant information that is displayed as a web page on a screen of the device . The information that may be displayed is based on the user s membership in various social network sites interests topics subscriptions followings activities and the like.

In particular the server system has a visibility hierarchy information sharing structure. The visibility hierarchy information sharing structure is used to limit the visibility of a user s membership information to the general public and between individuals that have been designated as friends. A user may find it advantageous to let the public know that the user is a member of one social network site but membership in another particular social network site should be limited or restricted. For example a user may not want it known to an employer that the user is a member of a gaming website. The hierarchy may include various levels. The top level may be a Public level that is visible or available to anyone who views or accesses the server system . In the public level there are no restrictions. The next level down may be what is termed a Show and Tell level. The contents of this level are visible to anyone who is a user within the server system and has a matching membership that is also flagged as a show and tell or higher visibility. The level below the Show and Tell level is the Friends Only level. In the Friends Only level the contents are displayed only to anyone in the user s current contact list and not publicly exposed. The next level is termed the Friends Only Show and Tell level. This level is visible to anyone in the user s current contact list and has a matching membership that is flagged as Friends Only Show and Tell or higher visibility. A Private level is provided below the Friends Only Show and Tell level. The Private level only allows access to the user and potentially to a user who is identified or flagged as a Best Friend. This level overrides visibility settings of Private and higher. The last level is known as the Private Invisible level. In the Private Invisible level access is provided only to the user. This is the least visible setting and may be selected by the user to hide an account on the server system from everyone including Best Friends.

The server system has incorporated various security techniques or software that is used to secure or protect user information and authenticate transmissions between customer devices and the server system . The architecture of the server system is a server client architecture with a data store. As previously indicated client applications such as show and tell SnT client applications are provided for mobile devices and web user interface application. It is also possible that third party client software is able to access the server system via a published application programming interface API . Client applications interface with the server system via API by sending requests and receiving responses form the server system . The server system has a security layer or authentication service between the server system and the user or client that authenticates all requests incoming to the server system .

To become a member of the server system and to have access to the server system the following exemplary procedure is employed. A potential user customer member or client navigates to the website associated with the server system by use of the customer device or opens the application resident on the customer device . The user selects a sign up option provided on a web page. The user enters user information to create an account on the server system . Exemplary user information includes a user name a password a valid email address and other information such as address and a cellphone number. The server system determines if there are no conflicts with the entered information. For example if the desired user name already exists on the server system the potential user is notified to select a different user name. The server system prompts the user for some kind of human verification check such as entering a code that is presented on the screen. If the human verification check is successful then a new user account is created in the database on the server system and the account is initially be flagged as inactive. The server system sends an email verification request to the new user s email address. Once the new user opens the email verification request and the user is prompted to verify receipt of the request. As soon as the server system receives the verification from the user the account is identified as an active account. However those skilled in the art will note that the disclosure is operable with any method for authenticating the user.

Once the account is activated the user may log into the account. Logging into the account is accomplished in the following manner. The user navigates to the website associated with the server system by use of the device or opens the application resident on the device . Aspects of the disclosure are operable with any mechanism for authenticating the user such as two step authentication. For example a screen or web page is displayed for the user to enter the user name and password. The program or the application sends an authentication request to the authentication program or service of the server system . The authentication program then attempts to authenticate the user. The authentication program returns a response to the program or the application . The device handles whether authentication has been successful or not. If the authentication is successful then the user is allowed to view the user s home page on the server system .

After the user logs into the server system the user is capable of populating the user s account with the various social network sites of which the user is a member. In particular the user is presented a web page in which a button or tab identified as Add Membership may be selected. Once this button is selected a new screen is presented in which the user may insert into a form any social network site of which the user is a member. The user may enter the uniform resource locator URL or web address for the user s home page at the particular social network site. In the displayed form presented to the user the user sets the visibility of this membership. In some embodiments the user is prompted to select one and only one of the visibility hierarchy levels such as Public Show and Tell Friends Only Friends Only Show and Tell Private and Private Invisible. Alternatively or in addition the user is prompted to create a custom visibility based on explicit input from the user. The server system stores the entered information for the particular social network site. The user may then enter other social network sites that the user is a member of and desires to have on the server system .

The user also has the capability of providing the user s full login information to a third party membership of the user s choosing into the server system . This is useful when the third party system allows a public API to access internal data to that specific system. In order to accomplish this the user navigates to the add membership button and is prompted to enter the login information for the third party system. The user then sets the visibility for this account data flagging it as public private or show and tell. This data is then securely stored in the server system .

The user has the ability to search the server system to determine if a specific person is a member of the server system . The user may want to do this to link the user s memberships with the other person s memberships. For example this would be the case where the user has a friend within one social media account and wants to determine if there are other accounts to make the person a friend. Person or account matches are found if a person s name matches the search query and returns only the search target s memberships that are visible to the user. The user conducts a search in the following manner. A screen is presented to the user that has a search option button or tab to find people within the server system . The user selects this button and then may enter a name to be searched. The server system then conducts the search of the database of the server system . If a match is found then the server system checks to determine if the matching user has any memberships exposed with public and show and tell visibility. The server system filters and returns only the resulting memberships that are exposed as public as well as any accounts that are flagged as show and tell and are common with the user s memberships that are set to show and tell visibility. Any target user accounts that are flagged as private or do not share any common memberships with the searching user are not returned in the search results. The matching user and the filtered memberships results are provided to the searching user.

The user may also conduct a search of the server system to find other users having matching interests or social media memberships. This type of search is useful in the case of a person wanting to seek people that have combinations of memberships within a certain geographical region and the user wants to browse a larger set of individuals and possibly friend them in various social media realms. Matches are found if the person s name matches the search query are within a searched geographical region and return only the search target s memberships that are visible to the searching user. To accomplish these searching criteria the user selects the search option tab and also selects a geographical region to search. The user selects one or more social media membership types or categories such as social gaming or professional. The search is then conducted by the server system . The database of the server system is searched to find individuals matching the search criteria. If a matching user is found then the server system checks to see if the matching user has any memberships exposed with either public or show and tell visibility. The server system filters and returns only the resulting memberships that are exposed as public as well as any memberships that are flagged as show and tell and are common with the searching user s memberships. Any target user accounts that are flagged as private or do not share a common membership with the searching user are not returned as a search result. Users and their filtered membership data results are returned to the customer device for display.

If the user finds an individual as a result of a search then the user may add the individual to the user s contact list in the following manner. The search results have the ability to select one or more of the individuals found by the search. In particular the user is allowed to send a friend request to each selected individual by selecting an appropriate button or tab associated with the individual. The targeted individual receives the request and is allowed to either accept or reject the request. Upon acceptance the user and the target user are now linked in the server system . The new contact is added to the user s contact list and the target user s contact list. Optionally the user may send a friend request outside of the server system . For example the user may obtain the location of the target users profile on each social network site e.g. via a URL and then contact the target user through each social network site.

The user may change the visibility hierarchy of each membership in the following manner. The user selects the My Memberships tab or button. Within the membership settings the user selects one of their registered memberships. Once selected the user is allowed to make changes to the saved settings. For example one membership may have initially been identified as private and the user now wants to change the visibility to public. The public designation is selected in an edit screen and an update request is submitted to the server system . The server system updates the records of the account and the data is stored in the server system . The user has now successfully flagged one of the memberships as public that is visible globally to anyone who accesses the server system .

The user may set or change the visibility hierarchy to show and tell as follows. The user navigates on the web site to the My Memberships tab and selects this tab. Once selected the user then is provided the opportunity to select one of their membership accounts to be edited. The user then changes the visibility status to Show and Tell. The server system then updates the visibility status for this selected membership account in the database of the server system . The user has now flagged one of his or her media accounts as show and tell and this account is visible to anyone in the system who is a user of the server system and has a registered membership that matches the account type of the user. This flags the visibility of the account to a more narrow scope than a public account. This also only includes the user in search or browsing results if the searching individual has a matching membership.

The user may also set a membership to the visibility status of Friends Only. Alternatively or in addition the user may create groups with particular visibility such as relatives acquaintances best friends etc. Friends Only status is more restricted and less visible than the Show and Tell status. The account only appears in a search where the searching individual is a friend of the user that is indicative of the searching user being on the user s contact list. Selecting or changing an account status to Friends Only may be completed in the following manner. The user navigates on the web site to the My Memberships tab and selects this tab. Once selected the user edits the particular membership account to be changed by selecting the Friends Only button for visibility of this account. The server system then updates the record for this account and stores this data. The account is now visible only to individuals in the server system who are a user of the server system and is a mutual contact of the user.

If the user wants to set an account as being a Friends Only Show and Tell visibility status then the user may accomplish this in the following way. The user selects the My Memberships tab and selects the account for the status change. Once selected the user may edit the account to have a Friends Only Show and Tell visibility status. This revised setting is selected and an update request is submitted to the server system . The server system updates the status and saves the status. Once the account is flagged as a Friends Only Show and Tell visibility status the account is only visible to anyone who is a user of the server system is a mutual contact of the user and has a matching membership account with the user.

A private account may be established in the following manner. The user is logged into the server system and then selects the My Memberships tab on an appropriate screen or web page. Within the membership settings the user selects one of the registered accounts to be edited or updated. The user then changes the status of the selected registered account to a Private visibility status. The server system receives the updated request and then saves the request. The account is now flagged as a Private account and the account is visible in the server system to only the user and potentially to a Best Friend contact.

The user may also make any account as having Private Invisible status. Private Invisible status is only visible to the user and no one else. Again to establish such a status the user selects the My Memberships tab selects the desired registered membership account to be changed and then selects the Private Invisible status for that account. The request to edit the particular account is sent to the server system and the server system updates the account and saves the new status for the account. Once changed the account immediately becomes a Private Invisible account only available to be viewed by the user.

Setting a contact as a Best Friend allows a user to have visibility into all of the user s memberships that are Private and higher visibility status. Being a Best Friend essentially overrides any visibility settings and ignores any show and tell settings the user may have with the exception of an account having Private Invisible status. As previously indicated a Private Invisible status account is only visible to the user. To allow a contact to be a Best Friend the user selects this status by clicking on a Best Friend button provided for a contact.

Information concerning events and messages about common interests or subscriptions may be allowed by the system . In order to accomplish this the user sends a request to the server system for feed data. The server system accesses the events that best matches user interests based on common interest topic subscription or matching social media relevancy. The results of the search are forwarded to the user. The results are displayed for the events messages or notifications in the display associated with the customer device .

The user may also be proactive and search for information concerning events and messages about common interests or subscriptions. The user logs into the server system and selects a search field or button. The user then searches for events and the search request is sent to the server system . The server system accesses the events that match the user search criteria based on common interest subscription or matching social media relevancy. The results of the search are sent to the user. The results are displayed in the customer device for the user to view.

The user may also use the server system to broadcast a message or an upcoming event across multiple third party systems. Once logged into the server system the user selects a messaging button. The application prompts the user for a type of message audience or category. The user then sends the message event or notification. The server system determines the particular area or realm by querying data stored for the contact list and their attached memberships categories or topics to determine users and systems to which the message or event should be broadcast. Where applicable the server system passes through the transmission to the third party system if the third party systems allows such a transmission.

The user may further customize a universal feed or universal streamer that the user wishes to send through the server system . In this scenario the user wants to improve the relevancy of the information that is presented in the server system universal feed. The universal feed is responsible for streaming data to the user from the wider realm and to aggregate the data. The user may want to have more or less specific information presented so the application allows the user to customize relevant topics and have that stored in the user s profile in the data store in the server system . The user may select this option by selecting the universal feed option. Once selected the user is presented with a web page in which the user may enter in updates topics feeds e.g. newsfeeds interests hobbies friends activities or any other subject matter the user wants to have presented in the feed. The request is submitted to the server system . The server system receives the request and updates the user settings in the data store of the server system .

Rather than the user separately attempting to follow all activities of interest from all the social networks which is cumbersome and tiring the universal feed accumulates all these feeds and display them in one location. Further the user may select the feeds of interest by user e.g. by contact by site by domain and or by other criteria. For example the user may select other users who are family and close friends and the social networks feeds of those selected users are coordinated into the universal feed. In another example the user may select a particular network or domain e.g. a gaming network and the activities of contacts of the user who belong to the selected network or domain are coordinated into the universal feed. In this manner the user receives updates on contacts who log into the selected network and or domain e.g. the users who have logged on to play games . The universal feed may also provide the user with an option to set up a home screen streamer for mobile devices or desktops to display the desired activity information on the home screen. In some embodiments the universal feed presents the information as a large cross tab user interface element in which the users are shown on the vertical axis and the different domains networks are shown on the horizontal axis. The user may select users e.g. contacts or selected users across all networks or select each network across all the users e.g. contacts or selected users .

With reference now to a screen is shown which is displayed on the customer device if the customer device is a smart phone. The screen may include a search box in which search parameters may be typed into the box . Once a search request is typed into the box an icon may be selected to start the search. A scrollable area is provided in the screen in which universal feed elements may be placed. A contacts icon or button may be resident in a bar area . The contacts icon may be selected to open another screen in which the contacts of the user are displayed. A settings icon is also provided in the bar area . The settings icon may be pressed to be directed to another screen in which the settings of the user may be entered or edited. The bar area also has a memberships button . Selection of the memberships button opens a new screen in which memberships information may be viewed. The screen is a more condensed version of the screen . Further the cellphone may have a touch sensitive screen that allows the user to touch the screen and the various elements for example icon to operate or control the screen . However it is also possible that the screen may be presented on a cellphone.

With reference now to a screen is shown that may be displayed to the user when the device is a smart phone. The screen is used to edit or add membership information for the user. The screen is a condensed version of the screen . Further the screen is presented once the icon on the screen has been selected. The screen has displayed therein social networking sites and that the user is a member. The social networking site has an area in which membership information is shown. The social networking site has a visibility status indicator that in this particular case indicates the status as being Public. A quick edit icon is also provided to be able to edit the status of the social networking site . The other social networking sites and have similar elements. A home icon is also provided in the screen to be able to return to the screen .

Referring now to an alternative screen to the screen is shown. The screen is used to review or edit the contacts list of the user. The screen has a first contact a second contact a third contact and a fourth contact . The contacts and may be moved or dragged within the screen to design the screen in any desired manner. The first contact has a ring or halo around it to indicate that the first contact is a Best Friend. Attached to the first contact are nodes and that are indicative of the social networking sites that the first contact is a member. The nodes and have an animated appearance and are capable of moving or floating on the screen . This provides a more interactive and fun appearance to the user. Each of the nodes and may be clicked or selected to find out more details about the first contact or to edit the first contact . A home button or icon is provided to allow the user to return to the screen or the screen .

In a next step the user may initiate the user s account by adding one or more social networking sites or accounts of which the user is member setting up visibility status for each of the sites or accounts conducting a search to find potential contacts inviting known friends or contacts at various social networking sites to join the user in the system and various other actions that have already been discussed herein. In a next step over time and after repeated use of the system the user may conduct maintenance of the user s account by editing various items in the user s account. For example the user may want to delete a particular contact. By use of the system the user may easily delete one or more contacts in the user s account. After the user has determined that the user has completed a session on the website of the server system the user may log off from the server system . This is indicated in a last step . As can be appreciated the next time the user logs into the server system the steps and may be performed in any order. It is also possible that more steps may be included in the use of the system . The various steps and outlined above are general steps to be used in the operation and control of the system .

As has been described the system may be a service provided at a website associated with the server system . The service and the user interfaces such as the screens and facilitate and allow users of the system to search and connect with each other among many disparate social media memberships. The system is a facilitator of person to person connectivity. Some social networking sites have their own set of friend lists but there is no easy way to find one another without searching within the scope of each individual social media system. The system is capable of aggregating and facilitating that interaction in a more global scope. When a person becomes a friend with another person in real life these two individuals may use the system to link up all their disparate memberships to one another. The system may also be used to locate and friend or contact another person solely on common interests and memberships.

Although the user of the system has been described as being an individual it is also possible that the user may be an organization public group interest group or any other entity such as a religious group or a political group. It is also contemplated that private networking sites may be part of the system . For example members of a private club a business organization or a fraternal organization may use the system and only users who are members of the private networking site may be able to view other members.

The order of execution or performance of the operations in embodiments of the system and method illustrated and described herein is not essential unless otherwise specified. That is the operations may be performed in any order unless otherwise specified and embodiments of the system and method may include additional or fewer operations than those disclosed herein. For example it is contemplated that executing or performing a particular operation before contemporaneously with or after another operation is within the scope of aspects of the disclosure.

When introducing elements of aspects of the system and method or the embodiments thereof the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements other than the listed elements. The term exemplary is intended to mean an example of The phrase one or more of the following A B and C means at least one of A and or at least one of B and or at least one of C. 

Having described aspects of the disclosure in detail it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of aspects of the disclosure as defined in the appended claims. As various changes could be made in the above constructions products systems and methods without departing from the scope of aspects of the disclosure it is intended that all matter contained in the above description and shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

From all that has been said it will be clear that there has thus been shown and described herein a system and method for dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking contacts which fulfills the various advantages sought therefore. It is apparent to those skilled in the art however that many changes modifications variations and other uses and applications of the subject system and method for dynamically aggregating and configuring access to social networking contacts are possible and contemplated. All changes modifications variations and other uses and applications which do not depart from the spirit and scope of the disclosure are deemed to be covered by the disclosure.

