---

title: Propagating communication awareness over a cellular network
abstract: Techniques for propagating communication awareness over a cellular network are described. According to various implementations, communication awareness of a communication session is propagated to an infrastructure component of a cellular network, such as a base station controller. Communication awareness of a communication session, for instance, can be employed to control various operational parameters of a cellular device that participates in a communication session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09414417&OS=09414417&RS=09414417
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09414417
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140807
---
Modern communication systems have an array of capabilities including integration of various communication modalities with different services. For example instant messaging voice video communications data application sharing white boarding and other forms of communication may be combined with presence and availability information for subscribers. Such systems may provide subscribers with the enhanced capabilities such as providing instructions to callers for various status categories alternate contacts calendar information and comparable features. Furthermore collaboration systems enabling users to share and collaborate in creating and modifying various types of documents and content may be integrated with multimodal communication systems providing different kinds of communication and collaboration capabilities. Such integrated systems are sometimes referred to as Unified Communication and Collaboration UC C systems.

While UC C systems provide for increased flexibility in communications they also present a number of implementation challenges. For instance a UC C system typically utilizes multiple interconnected networks to route various communications. Since different networks may be managed by different entities challenges thus arise in managing communications quality for communications that are routed among independently managed networks. Further individual networks and network managers may not have visibility into media types and session constraints for UC C data streams and thus may be unable to adjust network settings to optimize network session and device performance.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Techniques for propagating communication awareness over a cellular network are described. According to various implementations communication awareness of a communication session is propagated to an infrastructure component of a cellular network such as a base station controller. Communication awareness of a communication session for instance can be employed to control various operational parameters of a cellular device that participates in a communication session.

Techniques for propagating communication awareness over a cellular network are described. In at least some embodiments a communication session refers to a real time exchange of communication media between different communication endpoints. For instance a communication session refers to an exchange of communication data over a data connection that is distinct from a cellular voice connection. Examples of a communication session include a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP call a video call text messaging a file transfer content sharing and or combinations thereof. In at least some embodiments a communication session represents a Unified Communication and Collaboration UC C session.

According to various implementations communication awareness of a communication session is propagated to an infrastructure component of a cellular network such as a base station controller. Generally communication awareness includes attributes of the communication session such as identifiers for endpoints involved in the communication session media type s included in the media session encoding rate for the communication session and so forth. Communication awareness for instance is propagated independently from a data stream that carries the communication session. Thus propagation of communication awareness for a communication session is independent from the communication session itself.

According to various implementations communication awareness of a communication session can be employed to control various operational parameters of a communication session. For instance a base station controller can instruct a base station to provide operational parameters to a cellular device such as a transmission power to be used for transmitted communication session data from the cellular device. Various other operational parameters may be specified examples of which are detailed below.

Thus techniques discussed herein provide diverse scenarios for enlightening cellular network components with communication awareness. Such communication awareness enables entities involved in routing communication sessions to make informed decisions regarding routing and handling of communication session data.

In the following discussion an example environment is first described that is operable to employ techniques described herein. Next a section entitled Propagating Communication Awareness discusses some example ways for propagating communication awareness in accordance with one or more embodiments. Following this a section entitled Example Implementation Scenarios describes some example implementation scenarios in accordance with one or more embodiments. Next a section entitled Example Procedures describes some example procedures in accordance with one or more embodiments. Finally a section entitled Example System and Device describes an example system and device that are operable to employ techniques discussed herein in accordance with one or more embodiments.

Having presented an overview of example implementations in accordance with one or more embodiments consider now an example environment in which example implementations may by employed.

The cellular network is representative of a network that provides the client device with connectivity to various networks and or services such as for voice communication data communication and so forth. The cellular network may be provided and or managed by a particular enterprise entity such as a cellular service provider. The cellular network may provide the client device with connectivity via a variety of different cellular technologies such as 3G 4G e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE 5G and so forth.

According to various implementations the cellular network is implemented via a cellular infrastructure which is representative of functionality to deploy and manage infrastructure components and logic of the cellular network . The cellular infrastructure leverages base stations for receiving cellular signal transmission from and transmitting cellular signal to client devices such as the client device . The base stations are distributed over a wide geographic area e.g. globally to provide cellular connectivity over diverse geographic locations.

The cellular infrastructure includes a base station controller which is representative of functionality to manage various operational aspects of the base stations . The base station controller for instance manages base station operations for different individual base stations that are distributed over different geographical areas.

According to various implementations communication between the client device and an endpoint is facilitated via a communication client of the client device and a communication client of the endpoint . Generally the communication clients are representative of functionalities to enable different forms of communication via the client device . Examples of the communication clients include a voice communication application e.g. a VoIP client a video communication application a messaging application a content sharing application and combinations thereof. The communication clients for instance enable different communication modalities to be combined to provide diverse communication scenarios. According to various implementations the endpoint is representative of different devices with which the client device may communicate such as other client devices.

In at least some implementations the communication client represents an interface to a communication service . Generally the communication service is representative of a service to perform various tasks for management of communication between the client device and the endpoint . The communication service for instance can manage initiation moderation and termination of communication sessions between the communication client and the communication client .

The communication service maintains a presence across many different networks and can be implemented according to a variety of different architectures such as a cloud based service a distributed service a web based service and so forth. Examples of the communication service include a VoIP service an online conferencing service a UC C service and so forth. In at least some embodiments the communication service may be implemented as or be connected to a private branch exchange PBX in communication with a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN to enable voice communication between the client device and other client devices.

Further to techniques for propagating communication awareness over a cellular network discussed herein the environment includes a network adviser system . Generally the network adviser system is representative of functionality to propagate communication awareness of communication sessions over a cellular network to different entities. Communication awareness for instance refers to information pertaining to specific instances of communication sessions networks involved in routing communication sessions users that participate in communication sessions and so forth.

According to various implementations the network adviser system interfaces with a base station adviser deployed as part of and or in communication with the base station controller . For instance the network adviser system can ascertain communication awareness regarding communication sessions managed by the communication service and can propagate the communication awareness to the base station adviser . The base station adviser can interface with the base station controller to enable the base station controller to maintain state awareness of attributes of a communication session and thus make intelligent decisions to optimize device and communication session performance.

In at least some implementations the base station adviser can be deployed in the cellular infrastructure as an agent of the network adviser system . Alternatively the base station adviser may be deployed and or implemented independently of the network adviser system . Further while a single base station adviser is illustrated it is to be appreciated that implementations may deploy individual base station advisers for individual base stations .

According to one or more implementations the network adviser system may be implemented and or maintained by the communication service such as to propagate communication awareness for communication sessions managed by the communication service . Alternatively the network adviser system may be implemented separately and or independently from the communication service . The network adviser system for instance may aggregate and propagate communication awareness for different entities and or systems involved in communication sessions such as different communication clients and communication services.

According to one or more implementations the network adviser system maintains an adviser system database DB which is representative of functionality to track various information pertaining to management of cellular resources as part of communication sessions. For example the resource policy DB includes adviser system policies that are to be applied by the base station controller and or the base stations for communication sessions. Examples of different resource policies are described below.

The cellular infrastructure further includes a base station DB which is representative of functionality to track various information pertaining to management of cellular resources for the cellular network . The base station DB for instance includes base station policies that are to be applied by the base station controller and or the base stations for communication sessions. In at least some implementations the base station policies can include resource policies propagated from the adviser system policies to the cellular infrastructure . Thus the base station policies may represent a local instance of at least part of the adviser system policies . Alternatively or additionally the base station policies may include their own particular resource policies that may differ from policies maintained by the adviser system policies .

In at least some implementations the adviser system DB and or the base station DB may also track communication awareness for various current and historical communication sessions such as identifiers for individual communication sessions endpoints involved in individual communication sessions base stations through which individual communication sessions are routed and so forth. As further detailed herein communication awareness pertaining to a communication session can be propagated independently from data of the communication session itself e.g. in data streams that are separate from data streams of communication sessions. Thus decisions concerning handling and routing of communication session data may be made without processing and or handling the actual communication session data.

According to various implementations the resource policy table includes a media type column a codec rate column a packet error rate PER column and a transmission power column . The media type column specifies different media types and combinations of media types that may be included in a communication session. The codec rate column specifies different encoding and or compression rates that can be used to encode media as part of a communication session.

The PER column specifies a maximum PER threshold for a media type specified by the media type column and at a codec rate specified by the codec rate column . According to various implementations the PER column specifies a percentage of packets incorrectly received relative to a total number of received packets for a data stream of a communication session. In at least some implementations the PER column may also specify an allowed variation from the indicated PER values e.g. in terms of percentage over the specified PER values.

The power column specifies a transmission power to be used for transmitting data of a media type specified by the media type column and at a codec rate specified by the codec rate column . While the power is specified in units of Decibel milliwatts dBm it is to be appreciated that any suitable power unit may be employed.

As an example resource policy consider an audio communication session that includes audio media that is encoded at X Kbps. According to the resource policy table the audio communication session has a PER threshold of 10 and a specified transmission power of A dBm. In another example resource policy consider an audio video communication session that includes audio and video media encoded at Z Mbps. According to the resource policy table the audio video communication session has a PER threshold of 5 and a specified transmission power of C dBm. Accordingly in at least some implementations the individual rows of the resource policy table each correspond to attributes of a different resource policy.

The example policy attributes and values specified by the resource policy table are presented for purpose of example only and it is to be appreciated that a variety of other attributes and values may be specified for resource policies in accordance with one or more embodiments. For instance the resource policy table may specify other attributes to be applied to communication sessions such as quality of service QoS tagging to be applied to communication sessions channel priority for different communication sessions security protocols to be enforced for different communication sessions and so forth.

Having described an example environment in which the techniques described herein may operate consider now a discussion of example ways of propagating communication awareness of communication sessions in accordance with one or more embodiments.

According to various embodiments techniques can be employed to dynamically enlighten various entities with communication awareness such as information about communication sessions information about network conditions and so forth. For instance notification events can be generated that include various attributes of communication sessions and network conditions. The notification events can be propagated to different entities further to techniques for propagating communication awareness over a cellular network discussed herein.

In at least some embodiments notification events can be configured using a communication application programming interface API that can be leveraged to configure and communicate communication awareness to cellular infrastructure components involved in communication sessions such as the base station controller the base stations and so forth. For example the communication API can identify dialogue events and session events for which attributes of a communication session and or network conditions can be identified. Consider for instance the following events and attributes that may be conveyed via a notification event generated using the communication API 

These events apply to various portions of a communication session such as the start update and end of a communication session. A dialogue event can include one or more of the following example attributes.

 1 Timestamp This attribute can be leveraged to specify timestamps for a start of a communication session updates that occur during a communication session and an end e.g. termination of a communication session.

 2 Source Device Identifier ID This attribute can be leveraged to specify an ID for a device that is a source of media during a communication session e.g. a device that initiates a communication session. With reference to the environment for instance the source device ID may correspond to an ID for the client device or the endpoint . The source device ID may be specified in various ways such as a media access control address MAC address an Internet Protocol IP address a mobile identification number MIN a mobile equipment identifier MEID and so forth.

 3 Destination Device Identifier ID This attribute can be leveraged to specify an ID for a device that is a source of media during a communication session e.g. a device that initiates a communication session. With reference to the environment for instance the source device ID may correspond to an ID for the client device or the endpoint . The source device ID may be specified in various ways such as a media access control address MAC address an Internet Protocol IP address a mobile identification number MIN a mobile equipment identifier MEID and so forth.

 4 Transport Type This attribute can be leveraged to specify a transport type or combination of transport types for a communication session. Examples of transport types include Transmission Control Protocol TCP User Datagram Protocol UDP and so forth.

 5 Source Port this attribute can be leveraged to specify an identifier for a port at a source device e.g. a source device identified by the Source Device ID referenced above.

 6 Destination Port This attribute can be leveraged to specify an identifier for a port at a destination device e.g. a destination device identified by the Destination Device ID referenced above.

 7 Media Type This attribute can be leveraged to specify a media type and or types that are to be transmitted and or are being transmitted as part of a communication session. As discussed elsewhere herein the communication session can involve multiple different types of media. Thus the Media Type attribute can be employed to identify media types in a communication session such as for applying resource policies discussed herein.

 8 Bandwidth Estimation This attribute can be leveraged to specify an estimated bandwidth that is to be allocated for a communication session. The estimated bandwidth for instance can be based on various factors such as a privilege level associated with a user type and or types of media included in a communication session and so forth.

 9 To This attribute can be leveraged to identify a user to which media in a communication session is to be transmitted.

 10 From This attribute can be leveraged to identify a user from which media in a communication session is transmitted.

 11 Codec This attribute can be leveraged to specify a codec and or codec rate utilized as part of a communication session.

 12 QoS This attribute can be leveraged to specify QoS to be applied to a communication session. Examples of different QoS levels include best effort BE expedited forwarding EF assured forwarding AF and so forth. In at least some implementations a specified QoS can be used to tag communication session data such that the data can be processed and or transmitted by other entities according to the specified QoS.

 13 Error Code This attribute can be leveraged to specify various error codes for errors that may occur as part of a communication session. For example errors can include errors that occur during initiation the communication session errors that occurred during a communication session errors that occur when a communication session is terminated and so forth.

These events can be generated and applied when a communication session experiences errors performance degradation and so forth. A session problem event may include one or more of the attributes discussed above with reference to Dialogue Events and may also include one or more of the following attributes.

 1 Mean Opinion Score MOS Degradation This attribute can be leveraged to specify a MOS for a communication session. The attribute for instance can be used to indicate that an overall quality of a communication session has decreased.

 2 Jitter Inter Arrival Time This attribute can be leveraged to specify jitter values for a communication session. The attribute for instance can be used to indicate that a jitter value or values have increased e.g. have exceeded a specified jitter value threshold.

 3 Packet Loss Rate This attribute can be leveraged to specify a packet loss rate for a communication session. The attribute for instance can be used to indicate that a packet loss rate has increased e.g. has exceeded a specified packet loss rate value threshold.

 4 Round Trip Delay RTD This attribute can be leveraged to specify RTD values for packets in communication sessions. The attribute for instance can be used to indicate that RTD values for packets have increased e.g. have exceeded a specified RTD value threshold.

 5 Concealment Ratio This attribute can be leveraged to specify a cumulative ratio of concealment time over speech time observed after starting a communication session. The attribute for instance can be used to specify that a concealment ratio has increased e.g. has exceeded a specified concealment ratio value threshold.

Thus various notifications discussed herein can include one or more of the attributes discussed above and can be used to propagate communication awareness to various entities. In at least some implementations attributes can be linked to particular networks and or network components to characterize performance attributes of the networks and or network components.

Having described an example ways of propagating communication awareness consider now some example implementation scenarios for propagating communication awareness for communication sessions in accordance with one or more embodiments.

The following section describes example implementation scenarios for propagating communication awareness for communication sessions in accordance with one or more implementations. The implementation scenarios may be implemented in the environment discussed above and or any other suitable environment.

In the scenario a user authenticates the client device with the communication service via the communication client . The user then enters a request to initiate a communication session with the endpoint . For instance the user selects an indicia indicating a request to initiate a communication session such as by entering a phone number for the endpoint selecting a contact from a contact list selecting a hyperlink and so forth.

In response to the request to initiate the communication session a communication session is established between the communication client of the client device and the communication client of the endpoint . For instance the client device communicates e.g. transmits and receives data of the communication session via a base station . Generally the base station represents an instance of the base stations introduced above.

Further in response to the request to initiate the communication session the communication client sends a start session event to the network adviser system . The start session event includes information to uniquely identify the communication session . For instance the notification event referenced above can be used to communicate attributes of the communication session such as Source and Destination device IDs media type s codec rate and so forth.

Based on the start session event the client network adviser generates a session notification . Generally the session notification includes attributes of the communication session examples of which are discussed above. According to one or more implementations the session notification may include a resource policy for the communication session . The resource policy for instance represents an instance of a resource policy that is generated by applying attributes of the communication session e.g. media type s codec rate and so forth to parameters of the resource policy table . In at least some implementations however the resource policy is optional.

Further to the scenario the network adviser system communicates the session notification to the base station adviser . The session notification for example is communicated to the base station adviser independently of the communication session .

The base station adviser receives the session notification and ascertains attributes of the communication session from the session notification . The base station adviser for instance identifies endpoints involved in the communication session e.g. the client device and the endpoint media type s for the communication session and so forth. The base station adviser may ascertain a variety of other attributes of the communication session examples of which are discussed above with reference to the communication API. In at least some implementations the base station adviser identifies the resource policy from the session notification .

According to various implementations the base station adviser applies data from the session notification to the base station policies to generate a session policy to be applied to the communication session . Generally the session policy includes instructions and or operational parameters for handling the communication session . The session policy for instance specifies transmission output power level s to be communicated to the client device PER threshold for the communication session and so forth. The session policy may optionally specify other parameters for the communication session such as QoS to be applied to the communication session security protocol for the communication session and so on.

In some additional or alternative implementations the session policy may be generated based on the resource policy included with the session notification . For instance policy attributes of the session policy may be partially or wholly adopted from the resource policy .

Continuing with the scenario the base station adviser communicates the session policy to the base station controller which communicates attributes of the session policy as session parameters to the base station . The session parameters for instance specify operational parameters to be applied by the base station for cellular communication between the client device and the base station . In at least some implementations the session parameters are session specific e.g. are to be applied while the communication session is in progress.

Based on the session parameters the base station communicates session instructions to the client device . The session instructions for instance are communicated as a downlink transmission from the base station to the client device . Generally the session instructions include parameters to be applied by the client device for the communication session . For instance the session instructions specify a transmission power e.g. in dBm to be utilized by the client device for transmitting uplink signal to the base station such as for transmitting data of the communication session to the base station . The session instructions may specify other behaviors to be applied by the client device such as identifiers for cellular channels to be used by the client device for transmitting data of the communication session e.g. for channel aggregation a PER threshold QoS tagging security protocol and so forth.

Accordingly the client device applies the session instructions when transmitting data to the base station . For instance a radio driver and or other radio control functionality of the client device can cause cellular signal to be transmitted by the client device according to the specified transmission power. Various other attributes specified by the session instructions can be applied by the client device examples of which are discussed above.

According to various implementations when the communication session is terminated a session termination event may be communicated to the base station controller . Accordingly the base station controller may communicate a termination instructions to the base station . The termination instructions for instance instruct the base station to implement default system behaviors that are different than those specified by the session instructions . For example the termination instructions may specify a different transmission power to be implemented by the client device than the transmission power that was applied for the communication session . The different transmission power for instance may be based on a default power control algorithm utilized by the base station controller .

In at least some implementations the various notifications e.g. events instructions policies and so forth discussed in the scenario may be configured using the example notification events discussed above such as via the communication API detailed above. For instance values for the various attributes discussed with reference to the communication API can be used to propagate the various information discussed with reference to the scenario . Thus the communication API may be leveraged to propagate communication awareness among different entities involved in communication sessions.

As illustrated in the scenarios communication awareness of the communication session is propagated independently of the communication session e.g. via data streams that are independent of the communication session . For instance the various notifications represent instances of communication awareness that may be propagated among entities involved in communication sessions.

While the scenarios are discussed with reference to a communication session between the client device and the endpoint it is to be appreciated that the techniques discussed herein may be employed to propagate communication awareness for multiple communication sessions e.g. multiple concurrent communication sessions. For instance the various notifications may be employed to determine and propagate communication awareness to different base stations and for multiple concurrent communication sessions that include the communication session such as part of a conference call that involves the client device the endpoint and other endpoints not expressly illustrated. As another example the communication session may be part of a multicast communication event from the client device to multiple other endpoints including the endpoint . Thus communication awareness may be propagated to different base station controllers and or different base stations and for individual communication sessions that are concurrently occurring or scheduled to be implemented concurrently.

While the scenario is discussed with reference to communication awareness being propagated in conjunction with and or after the communication session is initiated this is not intended to be limiting. For instance the various notifications may be generated and communicated prior to initiating the communication session . In at least some implementations for instance the scenario may be performed in response to detecting that the communication session is scheduled to be initiated. A calendar event for instance may indicate that the communication session is scheduled to be initiated at a scheduled future date and time.

Thus the scenarios may be performed to propagate communication awareness of the communication session prior to the schedule date and time. Such proactive communication awareness may be employed for various purposes such as enable individual networks to set aside resources to handle the scheduled communication session .

In at least some implementations aspects of the scenario may be performed while a communication session is in progress such as multiple times during a communication session. For instance the scenario may be performed periodically during a communication session to maintain active state awareness of communication session conditions. Alternatively or additionally the scenarios may be performed in response to a trigger event such as an indication of session problems and or of network problems within a particular network. Thus communication awareness propagated according to the scenario may be leveraged for various purposes such as for session initiation session diagnostics and repair session termination post session analytics and so forth.

Accordingly communication awareness of conditions pertaining to communication sessions over a cellular network can be shared among entities involved in routing and or handling the communication sessions. Such communication awareness can be leveraged in various ways such as for optimizing device performance e.g. signal noise ratio battery life and so on optimizing communication session quality of experience mitigating errors that occur and or may occur in the communication sessions and so forth.

Having discussed an example implementation scenario consider now a discussion of some example procedures in accordance with one or more embodiments.

The following discussion describes some example procedures for propagating communication awareness over a cellular network in accordance with one or more embodiments. The example procedures may be employed in the environment of the system of and or any other suitable environment. The procedures for instance represent example procedures for implementing the implementation scenario described above. In at least some embodiments the steps described for the various procedures can be implemented automatically and independent of user interaction.

Step ascertains that a communication session is initiated or scheduled to be initiated over a cellular network. The communication session for instance can be initiated based on user input to initiate a communication session with another endpoint. Alternatively the communication session can be ascertained to be initiated at a future time such as based on a scheduled calendar event that includes the communication session. According to various implementations the network adviser system can ascertain the communication session.

According to various implementations the communication session is implemented via a data session over the cellular network and the communication session is managed by a communication service e.g. the communication service that is separate from a cellular service provider.

Step aggregates communication awareness that includes attributes of the communication session. For example the network adviser system can receive attributes of a communication session between the client device and the endpoint . The attributes can be aggregated into communication awareness of the communication session. Examples of different communication session attributes are described above.

Step propagates the communication awareness of the communication session to an infrastructure component of the cellular network. Generally an infrastructure component refers to hardware and or logic deployed in a cellular network for purposes of managing various process and operations that occur within the cellular network. Examples of an infrastructure component include a base station controller a network controller e.g. a software defined network SDN controller a network switch and so forth. The communication awareness for instance is communicated in a data stream separate from a data stream of the communication session. For example the communication awareness can be communicated prior to initiation of the communication session after initiation of the communication session and or after termination of the communication session.

Step receives communication awareness that includes attributes of a communication session over a cellular network. For instance the base station adviser and or the base station controller receives communication awareness of a communication session such as from the network adviser system . Examples of different attributes of a communication session are described above.

Step ascertains a resource policy to be applied to the communication session based on the attributes of the communication session. Different resource policies for instance can be applied to different communication sessions based on attributes of the different communication sessions. For example the attributes of the communication session can be applied to the resource policy table to generate parameters for the resource policy. Examples of different resource policy parameters are described above and include a PER threshold a transmission power QoS level and so forth.

In at least some implementations a resource policy can specify channel aggregation and or dynamic channel selection information. For instance if a communication session is bandwidth intensive e.g. for a data heavy communication session the resource policy can specify that multiple cellular channels are to be aggregated for transmitting and or receiving data of the communication session.

In another example implementation a resource policy can specify dynamic channel allocation and or dynamic channel assignment information that enables cellular channels to be dynamically selected for transmitting and or receiving data of the communication session. For instance if a current cellular channel experiences quality problems and or errors a different cellular channel can be selected to replace and or supplement the current cellular channel.

Step communicates session instructions to a mobile device that include one or more behaviors to be applied by the mobile device as part of the communication session. The session instructions for instance are communicated by a base station QQ to the client device in a data stream that is separate from the communication session. Examples of different behaviors are described above and include power level for transmitting signal of the communication session channels to be aggregated dynamic channel allocation information and so forth.

Step participates in a communication session that is implemented via a data session over a cellular network. According to various implementations the communication session is managed by a communication service that is separate from a cellular service provider. The communication session for instance is managed by the communication service . Data of the communication session is communicated via the cellular network which is implemented and managed by the cellular infrastructure .

Step receives session instructions that specify one or more behaviors to be applied as part of the communication session. The session instructions for example are received separately and independent from a data stream of the communication session. According to various implementations the session instructions are received from a cellular base station such as based on a session policy applied by a base station controller.

Step applies the one or more behaviors to data transmission of the communication session from a mobile device. For example the one or more behaviors can be applied to affect various aspects of data transmission such as transmission power channel aggregation dynamic channel selection QoS tagging and so forth. In at least some implementations the transmission power of the mobile device is changed e.g. from a default transmission power based on the one or more behaviors.

Step receives an indication of a change in performance attributes for a communication session. The performance attributes for instance may correspond to a communication session that is in progress. Various changes in performance attributes can be indicated such as a decrease in session quality an increase in signal to noise ratio an increase in PER and so forth. Generally the change in performance attributes may indicate a session problem for the communication session.

Step propagates communication awareness indicating the change in performance attributes to a base station controller. The network adviser system for instance communicates updated communication awareness of the change in performance attributes to the base station adviser . In at least some implementations the updated communication awareness may include an updated session policy to be applied for the communication session. Alternatively or additionally the updated communication awareness may include updated session attributes that can be applied to generate an updated session policy.

For example the network adviser system may apply the updated communication awareness to identify an updated session policy from the adviser system policies . The network adviser system may communicate the updated session policy to the base station adviser which may cause the updated session policy to be applied for a communication session.

Alternatively or additionally the network adviser system may communicate the updated communication awareness to the base station adviser which applies the updated communication awareness to the base station policies to ascertain an updated session policy. The base station controller can communication session instructions to a base station QQ to cause the updated session policy to be implemented.

According to various implementations this method may be employed dynamically during different stages of a communication session to mitigate errors and or performance degradation that may occur during a communication session.

According to various implementations the methods described above may be performed multiple times at various stages of a communication session such as prior to session initiation concurrent with session initiation during a communication session at session termination and post communication session. For instance communication awareness of a communication session can be propagated and updated in real time while the communication session is in progress to maintain dynamic and active state awareness of conditions that may affect the communication session.

Communication awareness of a communication session may also be proactively communicated prior to initiation of the communication session such as to enlighten autonomous networks of the upcoming communication session and enable the autonomous networks to make adjustments and or preparations to accommodate the communication session. Communication awareness of a communication session may be communicated after termination of the communication session such as for system diagnostics and statistical analysis of network performance that occurred during the communication session.

Thus techniques discussed herein provide a wide variety of scenarios and implementations for propagating communication awareness to different entities involved in routing communication sessions. Communication awareness enables such entities to make informed decisions regarding routing and handling of communication session data.

Having discussed some example procedures consider now a discussion of an example system and device in accordance with one or more embodiments.

The example computing device as illustrated includes a processing system one or more computer readable media and one or more Input Output I O Interfaces that are communicatively coupled one to another. Although not shown the computing device may further include a system bus or other data and command transfer system that couples the various components one to another. A system bus can include any one or combination of different bus structures such as a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus a universal serial bus and or a processor or local bus that utilizes any of a variety of bus architectures. A variety of other examples are also contemplated such as control and data lines.

The processing system is representative of functionality to perform one or more operations using hardware. Accordingly the processing system is illustrated as including hardware element that may be configured as processors functional blocks and so forth. This may include implementation in hardware as an application specific integrated circuit or other logic device formed using one or more semiconductors. The hardware elements are not limited by the materials from which they are formed or the processing mechanisms employed therein. For example processors may be comprised of semiconductor s and or transistors e.g. electronic integrated circuits ICs . In such a context processor executable instructions may be electronically executable instructions.

The computer readable media is illustrated as including memory storage . The memory storage represents memory storage capacity associated with one or more computer readable media. The memory storage may include volatile media such as random access memory RAM and or nonvolatile media such as read only memory ROM Flash memory optical disks magnetic disks and so forth . The memory storage may include fixed media e.g. RAM ROM a fixed hard drive and so on as well as removable media e.g. Flash memory a removable hard drive an optical disc and so forth . The computer readable media may be configured in a variety of other ways as further described below.

Input output interface s are representative of functionality to allow a user to enter commands and information to computing device and also allow information to be presented to the user and or other components or devices using various input output devices. Examples of input devices include a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a microphone e.g. for voice recognition and or spoken input a scanner touch functionality e.g. capacitive or other sensors that are configured to detect physical touch a camera e.g. which may employ visible or non visible wavelengths such as infrared frequencies to detect movement that does not involve touch as gestures and so forth. Examples of output devices include a display device e.g. a monitor or projector speakers a printer a network card tactile response device and so forth. Thus the computing device may be configured in a variety of ways as further described below to support user interaction.

Various techniques may be described herein in the general context of software hardware elements or program modules. Generally such modules include routines programs objects elements components data structures and so forth that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The terms module functionality entity and component as used herein generally represent software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. The features of the techniques described herein are platform independent meaning that the techniques may be implemented on a variety of commercial computing platforms having a variety of processors.

An implementation of the described modules and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media. The computer readable media may include a variety of media that may be accessed by the computing device . By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include computer readable storage media and computer readable signal media. 

 Computer readable storage media may refer to media and or devices that enable persistent storage of information in contrast to mere signal transmission carrier waves or signals per se. Computer readable storage media do not include signals per se. The computer readable storage media includes hardware such as volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media and or storage devices implemented in a method or technology suitable for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules logic elements circuits or other data. Examples of computer readable storage media may include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage hard disks magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other storage device tangible media or article of manufacture suitable to store the desired information and which may be accessed by a computer.

 Computer readable signal media may refer to a signal bearing medium that is configured to transmit instructions to the hardware of the computing device such as via a network. Signal media typically may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as carrier waves data signals or other transport mechanism. Signal media also include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

As previously described hardware elements and computer readable media are representative of instructions modules programmable device logic and or fixed device logic implemented in a hardware form that may be employed in some embodiments to implement at least some aspects of the techniques described herein. Hardware elements may include components of an integrated circuit or on chip system an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a complex programmable logic device CPLD and other implementations in silicon or other hardware devices. In this context a hardware element may operate as a processing device that performs program tasks defined by instructions modules and or logic embodied by the hardware element as well as a hardware device utilized to store instructions for execution e.g. the computer readable storage media described previously.

Combinations of the foregoing may also be employed to implement various techniques and modules described herein. Accordingly software hardware or program modules and other program modules may be implemented as one or more instructions and or logic embodied on some form of computer readable storage media and or by one or more hardware elements . The computing device may be configured to implement particular instructions and or functions corresponding to the software and or hardware modules. Accordingly implementation of modules that are executable by the computing device as software may be achieved at least partially in hardware e.g. through use of computer readable storage media and or hardware elements of the processing system. The instructions and or functions may be executable operable by one or more articles of manufacture for example one or more computing devices and or processing systems to implement techniques modules and examples described herein.

As further illustrated in the example system enables ubiquitous environments for a seamless user experience when running applications on a personal computer PC a television device and or a mobile device. Services and applications run substantially similar in all three environments for a common user experience when transitioning from one device to the next while utilizing an application playing a video game watching a video and so on.

In the example system multiple devices are interconnected through a central computing device. The central computing device may be local to the multiple devices or may be located remotely from the multiple devices. In one embodiment the central computing device may be a cloud of one or more server computers that are connected to the multiple devices through a network the Internet or other data communication link.

In one embodiment this interconnection architecture enables functionality to be delivered across multiple devices to provide a common and seamless experience to a user of the multiple devices. Each of the multiple devices may have different physical requirements and capabilities and the central computing device uses a platform to enable the delivery of an experience to the device that is both tailored to the device and yet common to all devices. In one embodiment a class of target devices is created and experiences are tailored to the generic class of devices. A class of devices may be defined by physical features types of usage or other common characteristics of the devices.

In various implementations the computing device may assume a variety of different configurations such as for computer mobile and television uses. Each of these configurations includes devices that may have generally different constructs and capabilities and thus the computing device may be configured according to one or more of the different device classes. For instance the computing device may be implemented as the computer class of a device that includes a personal computer desktop computer a multi screen computer laptop computer netbook and so on.

The computing device may also be implemented as the mobile class of device that includes mobile devices such as a mobile phone portable music player portable gaming device a tablet computer a wearable device a multi screen computer and so on. The computing device may also be implemented as the television class of device that includes devices having or connected to generally larger screens in casual viewing environments. These devices include televisions set top boxes gaming consoles and so on.

The techniques described herein may be supported by these various configurations of the computing device and are not limited to the specific examples of the techniques described herein. For example functionalities discussed with reference to the cellular infrastructure the communication service and or the network adviser system may be implemented all or in part through use of a distributed system such as over a cloud via a platform as described below.

The cloud includes and or is representative of a platform for resources . The platform abstracts underlying functionality of hardware e.g. servers and software resources of the cloud . The resources may include applications and or data that can be utilized while computer processing is executed on servers that are remote from the computing device . Resources can also include services provided over the Internet and or through a subscriber network such as a cellular or Wi Fi network.

The platform may abstract resources and functions to connect the computing device with other computing devices. The platform may also serve to abstract scaling of resources to provide a corresponding level of scale to encountered demand for the resources that are implemented via the platform . Accordingly in an interconnected device embodiment implementation of functionality described herein may be distributed throughout the system . For example the functionality may be implemented in part on the computing device as well as via the platform that abstracts the functionality of the cloud .

Discussed herein are a number of methods that may be implemented to perform techniques discussed herein. Aspects of the methods may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or a combination thereof. The methods are shown as a set of steps that specify operations performed by one or more devices and are not necessarily limited to the orders shown for performing the operations by the respective blocks. Further an operation shown with respect to a particular method may be combined and or interchanged with an operation of a different method in accordance with one or more implementations. Aspects of the methods can be implemented via interaction between various entities discussed above with reference to the environment .

Techniques for propagating communication awareness over a cellular network are described. Although embodiments are described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the embodiments defined in the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claimed embodiments.

