---

title: Personalized content aggregation platform
abstract: A user device receives, from a network device, a content index of content items available for presentation via a content distribution network. The user device presents a user interface to configure a personalized channel plan and receives, via the user interface, user input to configure the personalized channel plan. The personalized channel plan includes a schedule of selected content items, from the content index, for presentation on a remote viewing device. The user device sends, to a remote viewing device, presentation instructions for the personalized channel plan, wherein the instructions cause the viewing device to present the selected content items to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09467743&OS=09467743&RS=09467743
owner: VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING INC.
number: 09467743
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140915
---
Along with live linear television content service providers also offer products that allow customers to download video content e.g. streaming video video files etc. on demand over a distribution network. Broadcast content options may be presented to the customer via an electronic program guide. Access to on demand video content is typically presented to the customer via a catalog of available items. Customers may supplement consumption of live linear television and or on demand content with content available through various Internet web sites.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Systems and methods described herein may provide a personalized content aggregation platform. The personalized content aggregation platform enables users to configure personalized content schedules also referred to herein as personalized channel plans from multiple content sources and or for multiple types of content. In one implementation the personalized channel plan may be configured using a navigation device e.g. a tablet computer or smart phone which may instruct a display device e.g. a set top box or smart television to present the content for the personalized channel plan according to the configured time and sequence. In another implementation the personalized channel plan may be shared with other users e.g. via social media etc. .

According to one implementation a user device may receive from a network device a content index of content items available for presentation via a content distribution network. The user device may present a user interface to configure a personalized channel plan and may receive via the user interface user input to schedule the personalized channel plan. The personalized channel plan includes a schedule of selected content items from the content index for presentation on a remote viewing device. The user device may send to the remote viewing device presentation instructions for the personalized channel plan and the instructions cause the viewing device to present the selected content items to the user.

For example as shown in an exemplary navigation interface a user may use the personal channel manager application on navigation device to configure one or more personalized channels including a weekday channel. To configure a channel a user may select any available content e.g. from a catalog from the content distribution network or another program guide to fill available time slots. In the example of the weekday channel may include a schedule that includes local programming e.g. Pinkerton H.S. Local Feed traditional network content e.g. World News on ABC basic subscription content e.g. Jeopardy on WGN premium subscription content e.g. MLB on NESN and VOD content in different time slots. The schedule of programming may include live linear broadcast content e.g. World News on ABC that corresponds to a regularly scheduled program time and or delayed programs e.g. Jeopardy on WGN which may be presented via the personalized channel on a delayed basis e.g. at some scheduled time after the regularly scheduled program time .

In another implementation the schedule of programming may include on demand content e.g. VOD content or non linear content such as social media content or games not shown . As described further herein the schedule of programming may also include content categories that may be filled with automatically recommended content e.g. based on user criteria user profiles channel metadata and user metadata from other devices accounts associated with the user . Thus a scheduled time slot in a personal channel may include a place for an automated recommendation e.g. Action Movie instead of a particular content title.

Navigation device may also identify or discover available viewing devices such as a set top box STB and or television on which content from personalized channels can be presented. For example navigation device may identify viewing devices via local wireless networks e.g. WiFi network Bluetooth network etc. . In one implementation viewing devices may be equipped with hardware and or software to enable communication with navigation device . Using the personal channel manager application a user may select a particular viewing device on which to present content from a personalized channel such as the weekday channel shown in .

According an implementation described herein navigation device may obtain from content distribution network links to content in the schedule of programming. For example for the weekday channel the personal channel manager application on navigation device may obtain a separate link for each content item. Each separate link may be obtained either at the time of scheduling or at a point prior to the scheduled presentation time for the particular content. In one implementation the link may provide a network location for content formatted particularly for a type of viewing device . As used herein a link may generally refer to any pointer or instruction to identify a location such as a uniform resource locator URL an Internet Protocol IP address or channel indicator.

Navigation device may provide links for content in the personal channels to viewing device and control the presentation of content on viewing device . For example navigation device may cause viewing device to access a particular link or tune to a particular broadcast channel at a particular time according to the schedule of programming in the personalized channel. In one implementation viewing device may use links received from navigation device to obtain content directly from content distribution network . For example viewing device may retrieve content via a dedicated access network such as a closed cable and or fiber optic distribution network that can provide guaranteed quality of service QoS levels. In another implementation viewing device may use links received from navigation device to obtain content via a public IP network or via navigation device . Thus navigation device may control viewing device to present a personalized linear aggregation of programming e.g. a personalized channel that includes a variety of types of content from a variety of different sources different broadcast channels e.g. representing different television networks and or different network locations.

VCMS may include one or more network devices or other types of computation or communication devices to aggregate content and content metadata process content and distribute content. In one implementation VCMS may include a content delivery system and a digital rights management DRM server . VCMS may aggregate content and transcode content into a digital format suitable for consumption on particular user devices . For example VCMS may include a transcoding device to convert a video file from one format to another e.g. from one bit rate to another bit rate from one resolution to another from one standard to another from one file size to another etc. . VCMS may also encrypt data and communicate with DRM server to enforce digital rights.

Content delivery system may include one or more network devices or other types of computation or communication devices to deliver multimedia content from a backend server to user devices . In one implementation content delivery system may include a streaming server that provides streaming data packets e.g. via a streaming URL to user devices e.g. via network . In one implementation a streaming URL may be session based such that each URL can be used only once for one user device for security purposes. In another implementation content delivery system may provide interactive content such as games etc.

DRM server may include one or more network devices or other types of computation or communication devices to issue validate and or enforce DRM licenses to a client such as an application running on one of user devices . In implementations herein DRM server may communicate with user device to authenticate a user of user device the particular user device and or an application residing on user device . For example DRM server may request receive login information associated with the user and compare the login information with stored information to authenticate the user. Additionally or alternatively DRM server may request receive device information e.g. a unique device identifier associated with user device and may compare the device information with stored information to authenticate user device .

Data center may include one or more network devices or other types of computation or communication devices to manage the authorization selection scheduling and or purchase of multimedia content by a user of user devices . As shown in data center may include a catalog server and an application server . In one implementation data center may be accessed by user devices via access network .

Catalog server may include one or more network devices or other types of computation or communication devices to provide a unified catalog of multimedia content for users e.g. of user devices to consume e.g. view buy or rent . Catalog server may include for example program guide data for television content on demand content data games etc. In one implementation catalog server may collect and or present listings of content available to user devices . For example catalog server may receive content metadata such as lists or categories of content from VCMS . Catalog server may use the content metadata to provide currently available content options to user devices . Catalog server may provide the content metadata to user devices directly or may communicate with user devices via application server .

Application server may include one or more network devices or other types of computation or communication devices e.g. a server device an application server device a Web server device a database server device a computer etc. to provide a backend support system for mobile applications residing on user devices . For example application server may permit user devices to download a personal channel manager application that may permit a user to find content of interest schedule content presentation and or play downloaded or streaming content. The personal channel manager application may enable user devices to present to a user of user device information received from data center in an interactive format to allow selection of particular multimedia content. Additionally or alternatively application server may provide content metadata such as lists or categories of content. Also application server may authenticate a user who desires to view purchase or rent multimedia content. In one implementation the interactions between application server and user device may be performed using hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or secure HTTP HTTPS via access network .

Profile server may include one or more network devices or other types of computation or communication devices to store user profile information for users e.g. users of user devices . Profile server may store per user and or per device preferences. The user profile information may include various information regarding a user such as login information e.g. a user identifier and a password billing information address information types of services to which the user has subscribed parental control settings preferred display format subtitle defaults relevant advertising settings most watched media a list of multimedia content purchased by the user user device identifiers e.g. a media player identifier a mobile device identifier a set top box identifier a personal computer identifier etc. for user devices associated with a user user content preferences user tendencies or the like. In one implementation profile server may include and or access a database that includes user device information from other systems such as a wireless data service plan. Application server may use the user profile information from profile server to authenticate a user and may update the user profile information based on the user s activity e.g. with a user s express permission .

Advertising server may include one or more network devices or other types of computation or communication devices that store advertising content that may be delivered to user devices . The advertising content may include for example metadata that allows the advertising content to be associated with particular groups categories and or profiles. The advertising content may include for example a unique identifier for each particular advertisement. In one implementation advertising server may provide advertising content for insertion into a content stream from VCMS .

Suggestion engine may include one or more network devices or other types of computation or communication devices that provide suggestions and or recommendations of specific content e.g. TV programming VOD titles video games etc. based on user profiles from profile server user preferences e.g. as indicated in a personal channel manager application or other factors such as popularity ratings for a show. In one implementation suggestion engine may provide a suggestion for a scheduled time slot in a personal channel. Suggestion engine may also take into account subscription restrictions pre defined parameters set by parents time slot length etc.

Customer support system may include one or more network devices or other types of computation or communication devices to solicit and or receive user feedback questions or credit related requests. In one implementation customer support system may include interfaces with data center and or a billing system for example to receive problem reports and to resolve customer billing disputes.

User devices may generally include navigation devices viewing devices and other computing devices. Navigation device may include a computation or communication device to enable a user to schedule presentation of content and or interact with viewing device to cause presentation of content. Navigation device may include for example a personal communications system PCS terminal a tablet computer a smartphone a personal computer a laptop computer a wearable computer or other types of computation or communication devices. In one implementation navigation device may include a personal channel manager application that enables navigation device to communicate with for example data center and or present information received from data center to a user. The personal channel manager application may permit a user of navigation device to log into an account e.g. via application server access catalog information e.g. from catalog server obtain content links to scheduled content and or provide presentation instructions to viewing device .

Viewing device may include a device that can present content identified by navigation device . Viewing device may include for example an STB e.g. connected to a television a gaming console an Internet television a smart television e.g. a network connected television a computing device with a cable card etc. Viewing device may execute a host application to communicate via a local wired or wireless connection with navigation device . In one implementation viewing device may execute an application to communicate via access network with for example VCMS or web server to present content based on instructions from navigation device . In another implementation viewing device may be equipped with a dongle to permit secure communications with a personal channel manager application on navigation device . In some instances navigation device and viewing device may be combined in a single device.

Private network may include for example one or more private IP networks that use a private IP address space. Private network may include a local area network LAN an intranet a private wide area network WAN etc. In one implementation private network may implement one or more Virtual Private Networks VPNs for providing communication between for example any of VCMS data center profile server advertising server suggestion engine and or customer support system . In one implementation private network may be protected separated from other networks such as access network by a firewall. Although shown as a single element in private network may include a number of separate networks.

Access network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN such as a cellular network a satellite network a fiber optic network a private WAN or a combination of the Internet and a private WAN etc. that is used to transport data. In one implementation access network may include a managed network that can be used to provide guaranteed service rates and QoS to user devices . Although shown as a single element in access network may include a number of separate networks that provide services to user devices .

Content sources may include any type or form of content provider to provide content to VCMS for distribution. For example content sources may include free television broadcast providers e.g. broadcast providers such as NBC CBS ABC and or FOX and for pay television broadcast providers e.g. TNT ESPN HBO Cinemax CNN etc. that permit content to be streamed and or downloaded. Content sources may also include on demand content providers e.g. video on demand VOD providers pay per view PPV providers etc. online content providers e.g. webcasts podcasts etc. etc.

Web server may include one or more network devices or other types of computation or communication devices to receive provide information to user devices and or to receive information from user devices . In one implementation web server may be part of a social media platform to received and distribute files such as a personalized channel plan uploaded by a user of user device . In another implementation web server may include an internet content source search engine etc.

Bus may permit communication among the components of device . Processing unit may include one or more processors or microprocessors that interpret and execute instructions. In other implementations processing unit may be implemented as or include one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or the like.

Memory may include a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by processing unit a read only memory ROM or another type of static storage device that stores static information and instructions for the processing unit and or some other type of magnetic or optical recording medium and its corresponding drive for storing information and or instructions.

Input device may include a device that permits an operator to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a mouse a pen a microphone one or more biometric mechanisms and the like. Output device may include a device that outputs information to the operator such as a display a speaker etc.

Communication interface may include a transceiver that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include wired or wireless e.g. radio frequency mechanisms for communicating with other devices such as other devices of network .

As described herein device may perform certain operations in response to processing unit executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may include a tangible non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in memory may cause processing unit to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although shows exemplary components of device in other implementations device may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than depicted in . As an example in some implementations a display may not be included in device . In these situations device may be a headless device that does not include an input device. Alternatively or additionally one or more components of device may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .

Channel setup module may provide a user interface to present content options and configure a personalized content schedule. Content options may include for example items from catalog server items from web server and or other multimedia content accessible via access network . In one implementation channel setup module may provide a grid of time slots that can be selectively filled in with content items from a catalog listing. For example channel setup module may include a drag and drop interface to insert content selections into a particular time slot in the grid. In one implementation selected linear content e.g. television content VOD content downloads streaming media etc. may automatically fill an amount of time in the grid that corresponds to a selected program. In another implementation selected non linear content e.g. games music social media etc. may be assigned a duration by the user. In still another implementation a user may assign a default channel or content source for any time period not otherwise scheduled in the personalized content schedule. Items selected by the user and inserted into particular time slots may be associated with a personalized channel listing such as shown in navigation interface of .

Profile configuration module may provide a user interface to solicit user preferences. For example profile configuration module may allow a user to provide definitive settings to guide limit suggested content. Settings provided by a user may include for example user data e.g. age gender etc. and or content preferences such as content ratings Motion Picture Association of America MPAA ratings etc. content age favorite actors preferred genres minimum critic viewer ratings etc. In one implementation profile configuration module may communicate with profile server advertising server and or suggestion engine to allow content distribution network to identify suggested content and or advertising for a user s personalized channel.

Catalog interface may allow navigation device to obtain a list of available content e.g. both linear and non linear content from data center e.g. catalog server . For example catalog interface may request from data center a list of content available for viewing scheduling within a particular period. The list of content may be presented to a user of navigation device via channel setup module . In one implementation catalog interface may indicate a user s selection scheduling of particular content e.g. via channel setup module to data center and in return receive a link to enable viewing device to access the particular content. In some cases catalog interface may obtain session specific information to access the particular content at a point in time prior to the scheduled time for presenting the particular content e.g. as indicated by user input in channel setup module .

Non catalog interface may allow navigation device to obtain a list of available content from web server or other sources that may not be affiliated with service providers for content distribution network . For example non catalog interface may request from web server a list of content available for viewing scheduling. The list of content may be response to a particular search query and be presented to a user of navigation device via channel setup module . In one implementation non catalog content e.g. retrieved via non catalog interface may be listed along with catalog content e.g. retrieved via catalog interface within the user interface of channel setup module .

Security module may restrict access to particular features particular types of content or particular times of use for personal channel manager application . Security module may present a challenge event such as soliciting a password secret code or input pattern to be input by a user. Security module may provide a user interface to allow an authorized user to input configuration settings for personal channel manager application . For example content with content rating levels exceeding a parental control threshold may not be displayed e.g. via channel setup module or may not be inserted into the time slot grid of channel setup module .

Social media interface may provide an interface to a social media site to allow a user of personal channel manager application to post share a personalized content schedule e.g. from navigation interface or a list link for content that is currently being presented via personal channel manager application . Social media interface may communicate with for example web server to upload a personalized content schedule from navigation device . Once available on social media other contacts for example may access the schedule and use copies of personal channel manager application on the contacts devices to access the channel content.

Display control module may communicate with viewing device to present a personalized content schedule from channel setup module . In one implementation display control module may communicate with a host application executed on viewing device to instruct viewing device when and what channel content to display. For example display control module may monitor the personalized content schedule and depending on the type of content included in the current time slot of navigation interface display control module may instruct viewing device to tune to a particular broadcast channel load VOD content or access a URL for web based content.

In one implementation display control module may communicate with content distribution network to obtain particular links e.g. URLs for content items in the personalized content schedule. For example display control module may monitor the personalized content schedule retrieve one or more links to upcoming content and provide the links to viewing device for presentation according to the personalized content schedule. In another implementation display control module may provide actual content e.g. from an item in the personalized content schedule to viewing device for presentation. For example navigation device may stream and or download content and send the streamed downloaded content to viewing device for presentation.

Channel plan storage may retrieve and or store personalized content schedules. For example channel plan storage may store multiple personalized content schedules for a single user or for different users of navigation device .

Device discovery module may identify viewing devices that are available to present a personalized content schedule based on instructions from navigation device . In one implementation device discovery module may identify viewing device via wireless network discovery protocols such as WiFi protocols Bluetooth protocols or other wireless protocols. In another implementation device discovery module may apply additional application programming interfaces APIs protocols and or procedures to identify a type of viewing device . For example device discovery module may identify a display resolution e.g. standard definition SD or high definition HD capable platform e.g. an operating system device combination and or device type e.g. an STB model etc. of viewing device .

Although shows exemplary functional components of navigation device in other implementations navigation device may include fewer components different components or additional components than depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more functional components of navigation device may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other functional components of navigation device . Furthermore one or more functional components of may be performed on a different user device . For example in some implementations channel setup module may be accessed with user device via a website account and the resulting personalized content schedule later retrieved stored on navigation device .

Device server module supports interactions between user devices e.g. navigation device and or viewing device and backend servers including but not limited to content delivery system DRM server and catalog server . Device server module may determine which content format to use according a device type or platform of viewing device . For example in one implementation navigation device may request from application server a streaming link for an item in a personalized content schedule just prior to a scheduled time slot. The request may include a content identifier and an identifier for viewing device . Device server module may identify an appropriate format e.g. bit rate resolution standard file size etc. for the requested content on viewing device . Based on the selected content and format device server module may provide generate a streaming link. Navigation device may receive the streaming link and provide the streaming link to viewing device to present the scheduled content. In another implementation viewing device may request the streaming link for the item in the personalized content schedule based on instructions from navigation device and device server module may provide the content link directly to viewing device .

Content aggregator module aggregates information from Internet searching and social networks related to particular content e.g. a program or video for a user to include in a personalized channel. In one implementation content aggregator module may provide links or other menu options to enable a user to schedule content provided by content aggregator module .

Search suggestion module enables users to search the catalog by keywords. Search suggestion module may also provide ranked search results based on the user s search terms profile viewing history or previously purchased content. In one implementation search suggestion module can also recommend particular content to the user based on input from suggestion engine .

Selection module enables users to review and select content from a variety of sources including items from catalog server and content aggregator module . Selection module may support browsing and searching of a customized content list e.g. a unified catalog from catalog server and content aggregator module from navigation device personal channel manager application . In one implementation selection module may include a customized content listing based on a user s subscription package with a service provider e.g. a basic extended or premium service option . In another implementation selection module may include in a customized content listing other personalized channels from a user s social media contacts. In some implementations selection module may also provide an electronic shopping cart transaction management and or promotions and advertisements.

Although shows exemplary functional components of application server in other implementations application server may include fewer components different components or additional components than depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more functional components of application server may perform be performed by one or more other devices of content distribution network .

As shown in application server may provide a content index to navigation device . Content index may include for example items from catalog server and or content aggregator module . Navigation device may receive content index and the user of navigation device may use personal channel manager application e.g. executing on navigation device to configure a personalized channel using content items from content index . Based on the configured personalized channel navigation device may provide a channel plan to application server . Channel plan may include all or a portion of items from the personalized channel a presentation schedule a selected viewing device e.g. viewing device and or a user identifier.

Application server may receive channel plan and may generate assign content links for the items in the personalized channel. The content links may include a channel IP address URL or another link to allow navigation device or viewing device to obtain and present content for items in the personalized channel. In one implementation content links may include a URL for a private managed network e.g. a private portion of access network . Thus if accessible to viewing device a service provider may provide requested content with guaranteed QoS levels and or other benefits that may not be available through a public network or with non Guaranteed Bit Rate GBR traffic. For example one or more of content links may direct a device e.g. viewing device to a network location that is only accessible to particular devices e.g. a proprietary STB or particular accounts e.g. subscribers with verified account credentials . In other implementations one or more of content links may provide unrestricted access to content.

Content links may be provided to navigation device . In one implementation application server may provide content links in a distributed manner. That is at least some of content links may not be defined available within content delivery network when channel plan is initially sent to application server . Thus navigation device and application server may perform multiple iterations of exchanging channel plan and content links over time. For example navigation device may provide channel plan and application server may respond with a new content link each time the personalized channel is scheduled to present a new content item.

Additionally or alternatively navigation device may submit a search request to web server . Web server may provide access to for example links to internet based content that is not included within content index . Search request may include a keyword search a category selection or a particular link to identify content that may be included in a personalized channel. Web server may receive search request and in response provide web links to access content item s responsive to search request .

Navigation device may associate content links and or web links with the particular sequence of content for the personalized channel defined by the user. Based on the schedule for the user s personalized channel navigation device may provide the content links and or web links as plan instructions to viewing device . Plan instructions may include for example links to scheduled content and or tuning instructions. Plan instructions may be provided to viewing device individually in aggregation or both individually and aggregated. For example at the start of each new content item in the particular sequence of content for the personalized channel navigation device may provide to viewing device the next one of plan instructions needed for the personalized channel. Alternatively if viewing device has the capability and when multiple links in a sequence are available navigation device may provide multiple plan instructions e.g. for several consecutive items for the personalized channel.

In some instances content associated with plan instructions may be subject to copyright and or license restrictions. Upon receiving plan instructions viewing device may access a streaming URL e.g. in one of plan instructions to request particular content from VCMS as indicated by reference number . In response VCMS e.g. content delivery system may begin streaming the requested channel content including a content header. A content header can include information about where to fetch a DRM license to permit viewing device to display the channel content . Based on the content header viewing device may submit a license request to VCMS e.g. DRM server to retrieve the DRM license.

VCMS e.g. DRM server may receive license request and may communicate with application server to validate the user s entitlement for the requested content as indicated by reference number . If the validation is successful VCMS e.g. DRM server may return the DRM license to viewing device . A DRM agent on viewing device may validate DRM license for viewing device and viewing device may play the channel content if viewing device is validated.

Although shows exemplary communications within network portion in other implementations different communications may be used than depicted in . For example in another implementation plan instructions may include a channel identifier that can be tuned to by viewing device e.g. when viewing device includes a STB TV combination . In still another implementation plan instructions may include an IP address for a web site that can be accessed via viewing device . In still another implementation content associated with one or more of plan instructions may be retrieved by navigation device and the actual content may be sent through navigation device for presentation on viewing device .

As shown in user interface may include a scheduling grid a device selection section and a content selection section . Generally scheduling grid may provide a linear presentation of time slots that a user may fill in with content items to define a schedule for a personalized channel. Device selection section may allow a user to select from available devices e.g. viewing device on which to present a personalized channel. In one implementation device selection section may present for a user s selection one or more devices that are discoverable by navigation device within a local wireless network such as a LAN associated with a customer s home network premises. Personal channel manager application may use information in scheduling grid and device selection section to direct presentation of a personalized channel on viewing device .

Content selection section may provide a searchable content index of items that may be used to fill in time slots of scheduling grid . The searchable content index may include items such as past and future television content e.g. from multiple channels and or broadcasters VOD content and web based content. In the example of different content types may be divided and searched under different tabs . In one implementation searchable content index may be populated from content index for example. A user may provide a search query into a search tool to present a subset of content items in content selection section . Searches using search tool may search various metadata to identify matches by genre actors channels networks broadcast times etc. In the example of the search term 8 00 pm tu in search tool may cause content selection section to present all content items under TV tab that are broadcast at 8 00 PM Tuesday local time . Using for example a drag and drop motion a user may select an item from content selection section e.g. Family Guy FOX to populate a time slot in scheduling grid e.g. Wednesday September 5th 6 00 .

Items in each time slot of scheduling grid may represent content items from any of a variety of sources and or types. As shown in at 5 00 Suggested content indicates a content item to be selected by content distribution network e.g. suggestion engine based on a user profile and or additional criteria. Recorded web based content e.g. Good Mythical Morning from an Internet site is scheduled for presentation at 5 30. At 6 00 previously broadcast television content e.g. Family Guy is scheduled for presentation from network based content storage e.g. content source . At 6 30 no content item is scheduled. Thus at 6 30 personal channel manager application may instruct viewing device to present no content present default content or solicit user input to select content. Live web based content e.g. Westfield H.S. Football from a different Internet site is scheduled for presentation at 7 00.

As further shown in alternate content e.g. MLB CSI is scheduled for the 9 30 time slot. Presentation criteria for alternate content may be configured by the user such that a primary content item will be presented for a time slot if certain conditions are met and an alternate content item will be presented if those certain conditions are not met. Additional time slots for scheduling grid within the selected day e.g. September 5 may be accessed by scrolling up down entries in scheduling grid . Additional days for scheduling grid may be accessed by scrolling left right.

Referring to user interface presents item details for a suggested content item e.g. 5 00 Suggested content from user interface . User interface includes an item description section a change item section recommendation criteria section and an examples section .

Item description section may include an identifier for a selected content item along with an assigned time slot if applicable. Change item section may provide a selection mechanism for a user to select a different content item for a particular time slot. For example selection of the Change Item icon in section may cause user interface to present a content search interface e.g. similar to content selection section of to select a different content item.

Recommendation criteria section may provide details guidelines associated with the suggested content item of item description section . In one implementation recommendation criteria section may be different for different instances of suggested content. That is recommendation criteria for particular suggested content at 5 00 on Wednesday September 5th may be different than recommendation criteria for suggested content scheduled at a different time day. Recommendation criteria section may include user configurable settings to govern automatic selection of particular content such as a duration section a genre section a source section a keywords section an adverse section and a rating section.

The duration section may include a configurable time period for the recommended content. For example the duration section may set a maximum time window for a recommended content item or a group of recommended content items. The genre section may include a genre selection for the recommended content. In one implementation selection of a genre may limit recommendations to content items including the selected genre in the content item metadata. The source section may include source options for the recommended content. Source options may include for example TV content VOD content web based content any content or other content source classifications. The keywords section may include keywords associated with content metadata to trigger potential selection of recommended content. Keywords may include for example titles actors content descriptors directors networks dates studios or any other type of keyword. Conversely the adverse section may include keywords associated with content metadata to trigger rejection of recommended content. The rating section may include a rating level indicative of item content. Rating options may include for example MPAA ratings TV Parental Guidelines ratings and or other rating systems for which a user can select a singular rating e.g. only items with PG 13 ratings or a threshold rating e.g. any item with a PG rating or a lower age appropriate rating . Other criteria such as critic viewer reviews popularity ranks etc. may also be included in recommendation criteria section .

Examples section may include descriptions thumbnails and or icons that indicate representative types of content items that may meet the criteria in recommendation criteria section .

Referring to user interface presents item details for alternate content items e.g. 9 30 MLB C.S.I. from scheduling grid of user interface . User interface includes item details section and change item section . Item details section and change item section may include features similar to those described above in connection with user interface of . The type of items e.g. alternate content items in item details section may cause user interface to present different information than presented in user interface . Thus user interface includes content summary section and presentation criteria section .

Content summary section provides additional information for each of the alternative content items identified in item description section . In the example of content summary section describes two content items MLB Red Sox v. Indians and CSI . Additional descriptive information for each of the content items may be provided in content summary section such as a source e.g. TV network internet site VOD etc. a live recorded indicator a duration etc.

Presentation criteria section may allow a user to input criteria for selecting presentation of the alternate content items in item description section . For example presentation criteria section may identify a primary choice MLB and a back up choice e.g. CSI . Presentation criteria section may also identify criteria for automatically selecting between the primary choice and the secondary choice. For example as shown in the presentation criteria for the items in item description section would have personal channel manager application direct presentation of the primary content item e.g. a live MLB game that started at 7 30 joined in progress at 9 30. However if the primary content item ends or is not available during the 9 30 to 10 30 time period e.g. due to a blackout cancelation etc. personal channel manager application will direct presentation of the alternate content item e.g. CSI . In other implementation a user may define different criteria for automatically selecting between presentation of alternate content items.

Referring to user interface presents item details for a block of time that may include multiple suggested content items e.g. 5 00 am 9 30 pm Suggested content . The block of time may be identified using user interface or another user interface. In another implementation user interface may not define a particular time and may instead apply user input to all programming for a particular personalized channel. As shown in user interface includes item description section change item section and a preference settings section . Item details section and change item section may include features similar to those described above in connection with user interface of . The type of items e.g. suggested content in item details section may cause user interface to present preference setting section .

Preference setting section may include one or more content category or genre identifiers with an input scale and details option . Preference settings section may also include an add delete category option . Generally preference setting section may solicit user input to identify a personalized weighted mix of content categories over a particular period of time or continually. Content items e.g. as listed in catalog server may be tagged and categorized in one of several available categories. In one implementation for example content from content sources may be required to have a category before a content item can be published by catalog server . Preference setting section may allow a user to select an adjustable mix of content types among different content categories. Based on user input to preference setting section and or other user profile information e.g. from profile server content distribution network e.g. suggestion engine may generate a playlist for a personalized channel or a period of time within a personalized channel that corresponds to the user input.

Content category identifiers may include a content category such as a genre or another classification e.g. movies sports news sit coms etc. that can identify a type of content. Input scale may include an indicator to allow a user to identify a weighting a percent or an amount of the particular content category. For example as shown in input scale may include a sliding scale between more and less to identify a user s preference for a particular content category. Details option may open another user interface window now shown to indicate user preferences for a category with more particularity. Details option may for example allow input to identify lengths e.g. max. min. content ratings sub genres preference for live or pre recorded content etc. for a particular category identifier . Add delete category option may allow a user to include more or fewer content category identifiers and corresponding input scale and details option in preference setting section .

In one implementation a user may modify content preferences for suggested content at any time using user interface and content distribution network e.g. suggestion engine can dynamically update the playlist for the personalized channel.

Although depict certain user interfaces for configuring a personalized channel in other implementations different user interfaces may be used that depict more less and or different information than depicted in .

Process may include receiving an index of content items available for presentation block and presenting a user interface to configure a personalized channel plan block . For example application server may provide a content index to navigation device . Content index may include for example items from catalog server and or content aggregator module . Navigation device may receive content index and the user of navigation device may use personal channel manager application e.g. executing on navigation device to configure a personalized channel using content items from content index . In another implementation a user may access the content index via a web page from user device that includes a user interface e.g. such as user interface to configure the personalized channel plan.

Process may also include receiving user input to schedule the personalized channel plan from content items in the index block and storing the personalized channel plan in a local memory block . For example as described in connection with a user may provide input into scheduling grid to create a personalized channel plan. The personalized channel plan may be stored locally on navigation device . If the personalized channel plan is created using a web interface on a user device that is different than navigation device navigation device may login to a user account to access and download the personalized channel plan.

Process may further include sending to a remote viewing device presentation instructions for the personalized channel plan block . For example based on the schedule for the user s personalized channel navigation device may provide the content links and or web links as plan instructions to viewing device . Plan instructions may include for example links to scheduled content and or tuning instructions.

Process block may include the process block shown in . Referring to process block may include discovering a viewing device within a local wireless network block identifying the viewing device type block and monitoring the personalized channel plan block . For example navigation device e.g. device discovery module may identify viewing devices e.g. devices in a user s home that are available to present a personalized content schedule based on instructions from navigation device and a type of viewing device . Navigation device e.g. display control module may monitor the personalized content schedule to identify when changes to links channels presented by viewing device are required.

Process block may also include determining if the viewing device needs a link for a next scheduled content item block . For example navigation device e.g. display control module may monitor the personalized content schedule and depending on the type of content included in the current time slot of navigation interface display control module may determine if viewing device is required to tune to a particular broadcast channel load VOD content or access a URL for web based content. Alternatively navigation device e.g. display control module may determine that viewing device has sufficient instructions capacity to present the next content item in the personalized content schedule without additional instructions.

If the viewing device does not need a link for a next scheduled content item block NO the channel plan may continue to be monitored block . If the viewing device needs a link for a next scheduled content item block YES process block may include requesting a content link from an application server block receiving the content link for the viewing device block and sending the content link to the viewing device via the local wireless network block . For example navigation device may request a link from application server for a particular content item in a personalized content schedule. Application server may provide content links to navigation device in a distributed manner. That is at least some of content links may not be defined available within content delivery network when channel plan is initially sent to application server . Thus navigation device and application server may perform multiple iterations of exchanging requests and content links over time.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense. For example while series of blocks have been described with respect to the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that different aspects of the description provided above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these aspects is not limiting of the invention. Thus the operation and behavior of these aspects were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement these aspects based on the description herein.

Further certain portions of the invention may be implemented as a component or system that performs one or more functions. These components systems may include hardware such as a processor an ASIC or a FPGA or a combination of hardware and software.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a and one of is intended to include one or more items. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

