---

title: Method for efficiently supporting multiple simultaneous group PTT calls requiring low call setup latency
abstract: The disclosure is related to group communications over multicast services. A user equipment (UE) sends a registration request to a server, the registration request indicating communications group(s) in which the UE is interested, receives a message indicating a set of the communications groups that have been assigned pre-established multicast resources, receives call identifiers, the call identifiers mapped to group identifiers of each communications group in the set of the communications groups, stores a mapping of the call identifiers to the group identifiers, and maintains group call sessions for the set of the communications groups. The server receives the registration request, determines that the UE is provisioned for pre-established group calls, retrieves group identifiers for the communications groups, maps call identifiers to the group identifiers, notifies the UE of the set of the communications groups and the mapped call identifiers, and assigns multiple group calls onto pre-established multicast resources.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09432820&OS=09432820&RS=09432820
owner: QUALCOMM INCORPORATED
number: 09432820
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140527
---
The present application for patent claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 828 266 entitled METHOD FOR EFFICIENTLY SUPPORTING MULTIPLE SIMULTANEOUS GROUP PTT CALLS REQUIRING LOW CALL SETUP LATENCY filed May 29 2013 assigned to the assignee hereof and expressly incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The disclosure is related to efficiently supporting multiple simultaneous group push to talk PTT calls requiring low call setup latency.

A cellular communication system can support bi directional communication for multiple users by sharing the available system resources. Cellular systems are different from broadcast systems that can mainly or only support unidirectional transmission from broadcast stations to users. Cellular systems are widely deployed to provide various communication services and may be multiple access systems such as Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA systems Orthogonal FDMA OFDMA systems Single Carrier FDMA SC FDMA systems etc.

A cellular system may support broadcast multicast and unicast services. A broadcast service is a service that may be received by all users e.g. news broadcast. A multicast service is a service that may be received by a group of users e.g. a subscription video service. A unicast service is a service intended for a specific user e.g. voice call. Group communications can be implemented using either unicast broadcast multicast or a combination of each. As the group becomes larger it is generally more efficient to use multicast services. However for group communication services that require low latency and a short time to establish the group communication the setup time of conventional multicast channels can be a detriment to system performance.

The disclosure relates to group communications over multicast services. A method for group communications over multicast services includes sending a registration request from a user equipment UE to a server the registration request indicating one or more communications groups in which the UE is interested and optionally including the UE s intent to register with the server for group communication service receiving a message from the server indicating a set of the one or more communications groups that have been assigned pre established multicast resources receiving one or more call identifiers from the server the one or more call identifiers mapped to group identifiers of each communications group in the set of the one or more communications groups storing a mapping of the one or more call identifiers to the group identifiers of each communications group in the set of the one or more communications groups and maintaining one or more group call sessions for the set of the one or more communications groups wherein the server assigns multiple group calls to the pre established multicast resources.

A method for group communications over multicast services includes receiving a registration request from a UE the registration request indicating one or more communications groups in which the UE is interested determining that the UE is provisioned for pre established group calls retrieving group identifiers for the one or more communications groups mapping one or more call identifiers to the group identifiers of each communications group in a set of the one or more communications groups sending a message to the UE indicating the set of the one or more communications groups and the one or more mapped call identifiers and assigning multiple group calls onto one or more pre established multicast resources wherein the UE maintains one or more group call sessions for the set of the one or more communications groups.

An apparatus for group communications over multicast services includes logic configured to send a registration request from a user equipment UE to a server the registration request indicating one or more communications groups in which the UE is interested and optionally including the UE s intent to register with the server for group communication service logic configured to receive a message from the server indicating a set of the one or more communications groups that have been assigned pre established multicast resources logic configured to receive one or more call identifiers from the server the one or more call identifiers mapped to group identifiers of each communications group in the set of the one or more communications groups logic configured to store a mapping of the one or more call identifiers to the group identifiers of each communications group in the set of the one or more communications groups and logic configured to maintain one or more group call sessions for the set of the one or more communications groups wherein the server assigns multiple group calls to the pre established multicast resources.

An apparatus for group communications over multicast services includes logic configured to receive a registration request from a user equipment UE the registration request indicating one or more communications groups in which the UE is interested logic configured to determine that the UE is provisioned for pre established group calls logic configured to retrieve group identifiers for the one or more communications groups logic configured to map one or more call identifiers to the group identifiers of each communications group in a set of the one or more communications groups logic configured to send a message to the UE indicating the set of the one or more communications groups and the one or more mapped call identifiers and logic configured to assign multiple group calls onto one or more pre established multicast resources wherein the UE maintains one or more group call sessions for the set of the one or more communications groups.

An apparatus for group communications over multicast services includes means for sending a registration request from a user equipment UE to a server the registration request indicating one or more communications groups in which the UE is interested and optionally including the UE s intent to register with the server for group communication service means for receiving a message from the server indicating a set of the one or more communications groups that have been assigned pre established multicast resources means for receiving one or more call identifiers from the server the one or more call identifiers mapped to group identifiers of each communications group in the set of the one or more communications groups means for storing a mapping of the one or more call identifiers to the group identifiers of each communications group in the set of the one or more communications groups and means for maintaining one or more group call sessions for the set of the one or more communications groups wherein the server assigns multiple group calls to the pre established multicast resources.

An apparatus for group communications over multicast services includes means for receiving a registration request from a user equipment UE the registration request indicating one or more communications groups in which the UE is interested means for determining that the UE is provisioned for pre established group calls means for retrieving group identifiers for the one or more communications groups means for mapping one or more call identifiers to the group identifiers of each communications group in a set of the one or more communications groups means for sending a message to the UE indicating the set of the one or more communications groups and the one or more mapped call identifiers and means for assigning multiple group calls onto one or more pre established multicast resources wherein the UE maintains one or more group call sessions for the set of the one or more communications groups.

A non transitory computer readable medium for group communications over multicast services includes at least one instruction to send a registration request from a user equipment UE to a server the registration request indicating one or more communications groups in which the UE is interested and optionally including the UE s intent to register with the server for group communication service at least one instruction to receive a message from the server indicating a set of the one or more communications groups that have been assigned pre established multicast resources at least one instruction to receive one or more call identifiers from the server the one or more call identifiers mapped to group identifiers of each communications group in the set of the one or more communications groups at least one instruction to store a mapping of the one or more call identifiers to the group identifiers of each communications group in the set of the one or more communications groups and at least one instruction to maintain one or more group call sessions for the set of the one or more communications groups wherein the server assigns multiple group calls to the pre established multicast resources.

An non transitory computer readable medium for group communications over multicast services includes at least one instruction to receive a registration request from a user equipment UE the registration request indicating one or more communications groups in which the UE is interested at least one instruction to determine that the UE is provisioned for pre established group calls at least one instruction to retrieve group identifiers for the one or more communications groups at least one instruction to map one or more call identifiers to the group identifiers of each communications group in a set of the one or more communications groups at least one instruction to send a message to the UE indicating the set of the one or more communications groups and the one or more mapped call identifiers and at least one instruction to assign multiple group calls onto one or more pre established multicast resources wherein the UE maintains one or more group call sessions for the set of the one or more communications groups.

Various aspects are disclosed in the following description and related drawings. Alternate aspects may be devised without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Additionally well known elements of the disclosure will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the disclosure.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects. Likewise the term aspects of the disclosure does not require that all aspects of the disclosure include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many aspects are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the disclosure may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the aspects described herein the corresponding form of any such aspects may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WiFi networks e.g. based on IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs . . . N are configured to communicate with an access network e.g. the RAN an access point etc. over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Evolution Data Optimized EV DO Evolved High Rate Packet Data eHRPD Global System of Mobile Communication GSM Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Wideband CDMA W CDMA Long Term Evolution LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an Ethernet connection of WiFi or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is the access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE or UE over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself in an example e.g. for a WiFi router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to an application server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The application server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the application server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the application server via the core network and or the Internet .

Examples of protocol specific implementations for the RAN and the core network are provided below with respect to to help explain the wireless communications system in more detail. In particular the components of the RAN and the core network corresponds to components associated with supporting packet switched PS communications whereby legacy circuit switched CS components may also be present in these networks but any legacy CS specific components are not shown explicitly in .

In the core network includes the above noted SGSN B and potentially a number of other SGSNs as well and a GGSN B. Generally GPRS is a protocol used in GSM for routing IP packets. The GPRS core network e.g. the GGSN B and one or more SGSNs B is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G access networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network i.e. the core network that provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. UEs of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the Internet as if from one location at the GGSN B. This is achieved by transferring the respective UE s data from the UE s current SGSN B to the GGSN B which is handling the respective UE s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of EPS bearers verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN B acts as an interface between a GPRS backbone network not shown and the Internet . The GGSN B extracts packet data with associated a packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from GPRS packets coming from the SGSN B and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN connected UE to the SGSN B which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of a target UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN B stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and its associated profile in a location register e.g. within a EPS bearer . The GGSN B is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for a connected UE. The GGSN B also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN B is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN B includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN B stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN B for example within one or more EPS bearers for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs B are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN B ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN B iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN in Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS architecture communicates with the SGSN B via a Radio Access Network Application Part RANAP protocol. RANAP operates over a Iu interface Iu ps with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN B communicates with the GGSN B via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN B and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs not shown and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . In the example of the Gn between the SGSN B and the GGSN B carries both the GTP C and the GTP U. While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN B is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

In the core network includes a plurality of Mobility Management Entities MMES D and D a Home Subscriber Server HSS D a Serving Gateway S GW D a Packet Data Network Gateway P GW D and a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF D. Network interfaces between these components the RAN and the Internet are illustrated in and are defined in Table 1 below as follows 

A high level description of the components shown in the RAN and core network of will now be described. However these components are each well known in the art from various 3GPP TS standards and the description contained herein is not intended to be an exhaustive description of all functionalities performed by these components.

Referring to the MMEs D and D are configured to manage the control plane signaling for the EPS bearers. MME functions include Non Access Stratum NAS signaling NAS signaling security Mobility management for inter and intra technology handovers P GW and S GW selection and MME selection for handovers with MME change.

Referring to the S GW D is the gateway that terminates the interface toward the RAN . For each UE associated with the core network for an EPS based system at a given point of time there is a single S GW. The functions of the S GW D for both the GTP based and the Proxy Mobile IPv6 PMIP based S5 S8 include Mobility anchor point Packet routing and forwarding and setting the DiffServ Code Point DSCP based on a QoS Class Identifier QCI of the associated EPS bearer.

Referring to the P GW D is the gateway that terminates the SGi interface toward the Packet Data Network PDN e.g. the Internet . If a UE is accessing multiple PDNs there may be more than one P GW for that UE however a mix of S5 S8 connectivity and Gn Gp connectivity is not typically supported for that UE simultaneously. P GW functions include for both the GTP based S5 S8 Packet filtering by deep packet inspection UE IP address allocation setting the DSCP based on the QCI of the associated EPS bearer accounting for inter operator charging uplink UL and downlink DL bearer binding as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203 UL bearer binding verification as defined in 3GPP TS 23.203. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to both GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN UTRAN only UEs and E UTRAN capable UEs using any of E UTRAN GERAN or UTRAN. The P GW D provides PDN connectivity to E UTRAN capable UEs using E UTRAN only over the S5 S8 interface.

Referring to an MCE D is connected to the eNode B D via an M2 interface and to the MME D via an M3 interface. The MME D is connected to the MBMS GW D which is connected to the BM SC D via an SG imb interface. The BM SC D is connected to the PCRF D. These components will be described in more detail with reference to .

Referring to the PCRF D is the policy and charging control element of the EPS based core network . In a non roaming scenario there is a single PCRF in the HPLMN associated with a UE s Internet Protocol Connectivity Access Network IP CAN session. The PCRF D terminates the Rx interface and the Gx interface. In a roaming scenario with local breakout of traffic there may be two PCRFs associated with a UE s IP CAN session A Home PCRF H PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a HPLMN and a Visited PCRF V PCRF is a PCRF that resides within a visited VPLMN. PCRF is described in more detail in 3GPP TS 23.203 and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. In the application server e.g. which can be referred to as the AF in 3GPP terminology is shown as connected to the core network via the Internet or alternatively to the PCRF D directly via an Rx interface. Generally the application server or AF is an element offering applications that use IP bearer resources with the core network e.g. UMTS PS domain GPRS domain resources LTE PS data services . One example of an application function is the Proxy Call Session Control Function P CSCF of the IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS Core Network sub system. The AF uses the Rx reference point to provide session information to the PCRF D. Any other application server offering IP data services over cellular network can also be connected to the PCRF D via the Rx reference point.

In the eHRPD RAN includes a plurality of base transceiver stations BTSs E E and E which are connected to an enhanced BSC eBSC and enhanced PCF ePCF E. The eBSC ePCF E can connect to one of the MMEs D or D within the EPS core network A over an S101 interface and to an HRPD serving gateway HSGW E over A10 and or A11 interfaces for interfacing with other entities in the EPS core network A e.g. the S GW D over an S103 interface the P GW D over an S2a interface the PCRF D over a Gxa interface a 3GPP AAA server not shown explicitly in over an STa interface etc. . The HSGW E is defined in 3GPP2 to provide the interworking between HRPD networks and EPS LTE networks. As will be appreciated the eHRPD RAN and the HSGW E are configured with interface functionality to evolved packet core EPC LTE networks that is not available in legacy HRPD networks.

Turning back to the eHRPD RAN in addition to interfacing with the EPS LTE network A the eHRPD RAN can also interface with legacy HRPD networks such as HRPD network B. As will be appreciated the HRPD network B is an example implementation of a legacy HRPD network such as the EV DO network from . For example the eBSC ePCF E can interface with an authentication authorization and accounting AAA server E via an A12 interface or to a PDSN FA E via an A10 or A11 interface. The PDSN FA E in turn connects to HA A through which the Internet can be accessed. In certain interfaces e.g. A13 A16 H1 H2 etc. are not described explicitly but are shown for completeness and would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art familiar with HRPD or eHRPD.

Referring to it will be appreciated that LTE core networks e.g. and HRPD core networks that interface with eHRPD RANs and HSGWs e.g. can support network initiated Quality of Service QoS e.g. by the P GW GGSN SGSN etc. in certain cases.

The system bandwidth may be partitioned into multiple K subcarriers with OFDM. The available time frequency resources may be divided into resource blocks. Each resource block may include Q subcarriers in one slot where Q may be equal to 12 or some other value. The available resource blocks may be used to send data overhead information pilot etc.

The wireless communications system may support evolved multimedia broadcast multicast services eMBMS for multiple UEs as well as unicast services for individual UEs. A service for eMBMS may be referred to as an eMBMS service or flow and may be a broadcast service flow or a multicast service flow.

In LTE data and overhead information are processed as logical channels at a Radio Link Control RLC layer. The logical channels are mapped to transport channels at a Medium Access Control MAC layer. The transport channels are mapped to physical channels at a physical layer PHY . Table 2 lists some logical channels denoted as L transport channels denoted as T and physical channels denoted as P used in LTE and provides a short description for each channel.

As shown in Table 2 different types of overhead information may be sent on different channels. Table 3 lists some types of overhead information and provides a short description for each type. Table 3 also gives the channel s on which each type of overhead information may be sent in accordance with one design.

The different types of overhead information may also be referred to by other names. The scheduling and control information may be dynamic whereas the system and configuration information may be semi static.

The system may support multiple operational modes for eMBMS which may include a multi cell mode and a single cell mode. The multi cell mode may have the following characteristics 

In general eMBMS services may be supported with the multi cell mode the single cell mode and or other modes. The multi cell mode may be used for eMBMS multicast broadcast single frequency network MBSFN transmission which may allow a UE to combine signals received from multiple cells in order to improve reception performance.

In the example shown in the M cells transmit three eMBMS services 1 2 and 3. All M cells transmit eMBMS service 1 in sub frames 1 and 3 eMBMS service 2 in sub frame 4 and eMBMS service 3 in sub frames 7 and 8. The M cells transmit the same content for each of the three eMBMS services. Each cell may transmit its own unicast service in sub frames 2 5 and 6. The M cells may transmit different contents for their unicast services.

In general an eMBMS service may be sent in any number of time frequency blocks. The number of sub frames may be dependent on the amount of data to send and possibly other factors. The M cells may transmit the three eMBMS services 1 2 and 3 in time frequency blocks that may not be aligned in time and frequency as shown in . Furthermore the M cells may transmit the same or different contents for the three eMBMS services. Each cell may transmit its own unicast service in remaining time frequency resources not used for the three eMBMS services. The M cells may transmit different contents for their unicast services.

As noted in the foregoing eMBMS services can be used to distribute multicast data to groups and could be useful in group communication systems e.g. Push to Talk PTT calls . Conventional applications on eMBMS have a separate service announcement discovery mechanism. Further communications on pre established eMBMS flows are always on even on the air interface. Power saving optimization must be applied to put the UE to sleep when a call communication is not in progress. This is typically achieved by using out of band service announcements on unicast or multicast user plane data. Alternatively application layer paging channel like mechanism may be used. Since the application layer paging mechanism has to remain active it consumes bandwidth on the multicast sub frame which could be idle in the absence of the paging mechanism. Additionally since the multicast sub frame will be active while using the application layer paging the remainder of the resource blocks within the sub frame cannot be used for unicast traffic. Thus the total 5 Mhz bandwidth will be consumed for the sub frame for instances when application layer paging is scheduled without any other data.

In accordance with various embodiments disclosed herein some of the downlink channels related to eMBMS will be further discussed which include.

It will be appreciated that multiplexing of eMBMS and unicast flows are realized in the time domain only. The MCH is transmitted over MBSFN in specific sub frames on physical layer. MCH is a downlink only channel. A single transport block is used per sub frame. Different services MTCHs can be multiplexed in this transport block as will be illustrated in relation to .

To achieve low latency and reduce control signaling one eMBMS flow can be activated for each service area. Depending on the data rate multiple multicast flows can be multiplexed on a single slot. PTT UEs targets can ignore and sleep between scheduled sub frames and reduce power consumption when no unicast data is scheduled for the UE. The MBSFN sub frame can be shared by groups in the same MBSFN service area. MAC layer signaling can be leveraged to wake up the application layer e.g. PTT application for the target UEs.

Embodiments can use two broadcast streams each a separate eMBMS flow over an LTE broadcast flow with its own application level broadcast stream and its own multicast IP address for each defined broadcast region e.g. a subset of sectors within the network . Although illustrated as separate regions it will be appreciated that the broadcast areas may overlap.

In LTE the control and data traffic for multicast is delivered over MCCH and MTCH respectively. The Medium Access Control Protocol Data Units MAC PDUs for the UEs indicate the mapping of the MTCH and the location of the a particular MTCH within a sub frame. An MCH Scheduling Information MSI MAC control element is included in the first subframe allocated to the MCH within the MCH scheduling period to indicate the position of each MTCH and unused subframes on the MCH. For eMBMS user data which is carried by the MTCH logical channel MCH scheduling information MSI periodically provides at lower layers e.g. MAC layer information the information on decoding the MTCH. The MSI scheduling can be configured and according to this embodiment is scheduled prior to MTCH sub frame interval.

At Node B a transmit processor may receive data for unicast services and data for broadcast and or multicast services from a data source e.g. directly or indirectly from application server . Transmit processor may process the data for each service to obtain data symbols. Transmit processor may also receive scheduling information configuration information control information system information and or other overhead information from a controller processor and or a scheduler . Transmit processor may process the received overhead information and provide overhead symbols. A transmit TX multiple input multiple output MIMO processor may multiplex the data and overhead symbols with pilot symbols process e.g. precode the multiplexed symbols and provide T output symbol streams to T modulators MOD through . Each modulator may process a respective output symbol stream e.g. for OFDM to obtain an output sample stream. Each modulator may further process e.g. convert to analog amplify filter and upconvert the output sample stream to obtain a downlink signal. T downlink signals from modulators through may be transmitted via T antennas through respectively.

At UE antennas through may receive the downlink signals from Node B and provide received signals to demodulators DEMOD through respectively. Each demodulator may condition e.g. filter amplify downconvert and digitize a respective received signal to obtain received samples and may further process the received samples e.g. for OFDM to obtain received symbols. A MIMO detector may receive and process the received symbols from all R demodulators through and provide detected symbols. A receive processor may process the detected symbols provide decoded data for UE and or desired services to a data sink and provide decoded overhead information to a controller processor . In general the processing by MIMO detector and receive processor is complementary to the processing by TX MIMO processor and transmit processor at Node B .

On the uplink at UE data from a data source and overhead information from a controller processor may be processed by a transmit processor further processed by a TX MIMO processor if applicable conditioned by modulators through and transmitted via antennas through . At Node B the uplink signals from UE may be received by antennas conditioned by demodulators detected by a MIMO detector and processed by a receive processor to obtain the data and overhead information transmitted by UE .

Controllers processors and may direct the operation at Node B and UE respectively. Scheduler may schedule UEs for downlink and or uplink transmission schedule transmission of broadcast and multicast services and provide assignments of radio resources for the scheduled UEs and services. Controller processor and or scheduler may generate scheduling information and or other overhead information for the broadcast and multicast services.

Controller processor may implement processes for the techniques described herein. Memories and may store data and program codes for Node B and UE respectively. Accordingly group communications in the eMBMS environment can be accomplished in accordance with the various embodiments disclosed herein while still remaining compliant with the existing standards.

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. application server web URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only memory ROM or random access memory RAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

Accordingly an aspect of the disclosure can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the disclosure is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the aspects of the disclosure and are merely to aid in the description of various aspects of the disclosure.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B one of BSs A through A one of Node Bs B through B one of eNodeBs D through D etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. an RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. PDSN SGSN GGSN S GW P GW MME HSS PCRF the application server etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. As an example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information may include logic configured to send a registration request from a UE to a server the registration request indicating one or more communications groups in which the UE is interested and optionally including the UE s intent to register with the server for group communication service logic configured to receive a message from the server indicating a set of the one or more communications groups that have been assigned pre established multicast resources and logic configured to receive one or more call identifiers from the server the one or more call identifiers mapped to group identifiers of each communications group in the set of the one or more communications groups. As another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information may include logic configured to receive a registration request from a UE the registration request indicating one or more communications groups in which the UE is interested logic configured to send a message to the UE indicating a set of the one or more communications groups and one or more mapped call identifiers and logic configured to assign multiple group calls onto one or more pre established multicast resources. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the logic configured to process information may include logic configured to store a mapping of one or more call identifiers to group identifiers of each communications group in a set of the one or more communications groups and logic configured to maintain one or more group call sessions for the set of the one or more communications groups. As another example the logic configured to process information may include logic configured to determine that a UE is provisioned for pre established group calls logic configured to retrieve group identifiers for one or more communications groups logic configured to map one or more call identifiers to the group identifiers of each communications group in a set of the one or more communications groups and logic configured to assign multiple group calls onto one or more pre established multicast resources. The processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM flash memory ROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM EEPROM registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality. As an example the logic configured to store information may include logic configured to store a mapping of one or more call identifiers to group identifiers of each communications group in a set of the one or more communications groups and logic configured to maintain one or more group call sessions for the set of the one or more communications groups.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an aspect that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the aspects described below in more detail.

The various embodiments may be implemented on any of a variety of commercially available server devices such as server illustrated in . In an example the server may correspond to one example configuration of the application server described above. In the server includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other broadcast system computers and servers or to the Internet. In context with it will be appreciated that the server of illustrates one example implementation of the communication device whereby the logic configured to transmit and or receive information corresponds to the network access points used by the server to communicate with the network the logic configured to process information corresponds to the processor and the logic configuration to store information corresponds to any combination of the volatile memory the disk drive and or the disc drive . The optional logic configured to present information and the optional logic configured to receive local user input are not shown explicitly in and may or may not be included therein. Thus helps to demonstrate that the communication device may be implemented as a server in addition to a UE implementation as in A or B as in .

For group communication services that require low latency and a short time to establish the group communication the setup time of conventional multicast channels can be a detriment to system performance. For LTE the broadcast multicast framework i.e. eMBMS supports semi static bearer setup. The eMBMS bearers are setup by an out of band network procedure and the latency for setting up and detecting the available eMBMS bearers is not suitable for low latency group communications. To overcome this latency issue in an eMBMS system the multicast bearers need to be established before the call is started. This means that the target geographical area has to be identified and the network components be connected. Additionally a group member list needs to be pre provisioned in the application server interfacing with the eMBMS system.

In the conventional scheme a call is pre established in the unicast system and the UEs establish the session for the call and establish the core network bearers. The core network reserves resources for the call and similarly the multicast client on the UE reserves computing and vocoder resources for the call. Likewise the application server reserves computing resources for the call. Thus later when the PTT button is pressed for example the system performs floor arbitration and the media can be delivered within a very short time.

This system works well for a single pre established group call. However the system does not scale well when multiple calls need to be supported. The system has to deliver signaling for pre establishing each such group call and given that each pre established call consumes resources on the UE the network and the application server the resource utilization is not efficient. Even assuming that the network and the application server can be scaled well resources on the UE are still fairly limited thus computing resources on the UE like memory will be exhausted to support multiple pre established calls using the current scheme.

It should be noted that these steps may occur at different times for each PoC user i.e. UE A and B. The use of the EPS bearer s depends on how the UE the network and the overall system are configured to operate. It should also be noted that if allowed by the subscription and operator policy the QoS of a pre established EPS bearer for PoC talk burst control and media is allowed to have a higher QoS than best effort.

At step 4 each UE A and B performs the IMS registration with IMS cores A and B respectively. At step 5 each UE A and B establishes the pre established session for PoC communication towards the PoC application servers A and B respectively. The INVITE request 5a contains the PoC service indication and the Session Description Protocol SDP media parameters indicate the IP address obtained in step 3. At step 5b the IMS Core A B identifies that this service indication matches filtering criteria for a pre established session and at step 5c routes the session establishment request to the PoC application server A B. Conventionally this session setup is on unicast bearers. However this may be performed on eMBMS bearers as well.

In case a Service Based Local Policy is applied in the UE A B s IMS network the IMS core A B generates an authorization token for the session then at step 5e inserts and delivers the authorization token to the UE A B in the 2000K response upon set up of the pre established session.

To support monitoring of multiple simultaneous calls steps 5a 5e are repeated for each call. Thus for each call a UE needs to maintain the state for each call.

At step 6 the PoC user A presses the PTT indication button on the UE A to indicate that he or she wishes to communicate with the user of UE B. At steps 7 and 8 the UE A requests the establishment of media transfer and sends a SIP REFER message for example to the PoC application server A via the IMS core A containing the address of the terminating user i.e. UE B.

At steps 9 to 11 the PoC application server A sends an INVITE request to the PoC application server B by means of the IMS core A and the IMS core B. At steps 12 to 14 the PoC application server B indicates an Auto Answer to the PoC application server A via IMS core B and IMS core A. At steps 15 to 17 the PoC application server A acknowledges the media establishment request message and at the same time sends a talk burst confirmation to the UE A. The talk burst control message is transferred to the UE A on an EPS bearer established in step 3.

At steps 18 and 19 the PoC application server A informs the UE B via the PoC application server B that talk bursts from the UE A are on the way. Typically the UE B needs to be paged before the talk burst message can be transferred. Note that receiving the talk burst message is transparent to the PS domain B.

At steps 20 and 21 after the UE A receives both the acknowledgement for the media establishment request message and the talk burst confirmation message the UE A may send media data to the PoC application server A. In case of unicast transmission the UE A may establish an additional EPS bearer for media and talk burst control exchange with the same IP address and APN as the EPS bearers of step 3 such as an EPS bearer with traffic class streaming and the bandwidth required for the negotiated media parameters. If a UE received an authorization token in step 5 it inserts it into the EPS bearer signaling. As soon as the EPS bearer established in step 18 is available the UE A can use it.

At steps 22 to 24 the UE A continues sending media. If and when the EPS bearer established in step 22 is available the UE A can use it. The UE A sends the media data to the PoC application server A which sends the media data to the UE B via the PoC application server B.

At step 25 having received the talk burst message the UE B may establish an additional EPS bearer for media and talk burst control exchange with the same IP address and APN as the context s of step 3 such as an EPS bearer with traffic class streaming and the bandwidth required for the negotiated media parameters. If a UE received an authorization token in step 5 it inserts it into the EPS bearer signaling.

The eMBMS bearer discovery activation and delayed bearer notification process hinders the use of eMBMS for low call setup latency applications. However given the network resource efficiency offered by eMBMS it is the most suitable mechanism for large group communication in LTE for example. To meet a low latency call setup requirement for interactive group communication a pre activated eMBMS bearer can be used. For such a pre activated service the application server establishes the bearer s for groups that require low call setup latency before any group call requests are allowed from the client s .

One solution leverages eMBMS on the downlink for group communications by using pre established eMBMS bearers for fast group communication setup. Unicast bearers are used for uplink communication and in certain cases e.g. where eMBMS is not supported unicast is also used on the downlink. The solution uses the PCRF such as PCRF D in as the interface between the application server such as application server and the BM SC such as BM SC for the exchange of eMBMS related control information.

At to pre established eMBMS bearers are setup for the group s . The corresponding MBSFN area is based on the eNBs that were pre selected for this group communication as provided to the BM SC . At an application for group communication on the UE registers with an application service such as a group communication application service. The register message may include all the group identifiers of the groups in which the UE is interested e.g. all the groups to which the UE belongs. At the TMGI s of the group s if available are returned to the UE as a part of successful registration. The UE maintains a mapping of the TMGI s to the group identifier s .

At the UE monitors the network to determine the availability of the eMBMS transmission corresponding to the TMGI s of the interested group s . When the TMGI s are active the UE establishes the eMBMS logical and transport channels and continues to monitor traffic for the TMGI s . The UE forwards any downlink user plane traffic on these channels to the group communication application.

The UE initiates group communication setup for a particular group using unicast uplink bearers. The UE also indicates the availability of the eMBMS transmission corresponding to the TMGI of the group in the group setup signalling. The application server decides whether or not to use the pre established eMBMS bearers for the downlink. At the application server transmits the group communication traffic. If an eMBMS bearer is used for downlink the evolved UTRAN E UTRAN can further optimize the resource utilization by deciding to use point to point service or point to multipoint service e.g. based on counting information .

Aspects of the disclosure enable the UE and the PTT application layer to be used to pre establish and monitor multiple simultaneous group calls that require low call set up latency. This system allows the user to select one of the active groups and to request the floor to deliver the media.

The system uses an indication from the UE during registration to pre establish calls. During registration the application server retrieves the UE s group membership from its database and pre establishes a session for the UE. The application server sends the UE a list of call identifiers mapped to each group in which the UE is interested. The UE then uses a call identifier for any in call signaling.

At a BM SC in the EPC and the application server reserve TMGI s for group communication. At the E UTRAN s the BM SC in the EPC such as BM SC D in and the application server communicate to establish bearers for the reserved TMGI s . The BM SC establishes the eMBMS bearers and at broadcasts the TMGI s to the E UTRAN s . The E UTRAN s then broadcasts the TMGI s to the UEs . The TMGI s allow the UEs to know the group calls that are currently supported.

The flow illustrated in continues with an application such as a group communication application session pre establishment and bearer identification phase. At the UEs register with the application server via the E UTRAN and the SGW and the PGW in the EPC such as S GW D and P GW D in respectively and provide a list of groups in which they are interested. At the application server retrieves group identifiers associated with the interested groups from a database . At the application server maps the group identifiers to call identifiers for each group for the UEs that can use the pre established bearer scheme as described below.

At the application server instructs the BM SC in the EPC to pre establish a certain number of bearers for the groups. The application server may decide to multiplex multiple groups on the same bearer. Thus if such a bearer exists the application server may not initiate the activation on a new bearer.

At the application server sends the UEs on unicast bearers a list of the pre established groups and a mapping of the group identifiers to the corresponding call identifiers. The SGW and PGW in the EPC forward this information to the E UTRAN which forwards it to the UEs . At the UEs note the groups that are pre established and map the call identifiers to the group identifiers.

Since the call is not active the application server does not allocate resources e.g. memory to the call and treats this as an idle call like other multiplexed calls.

The flow illustrated in continues with a use of pre established bearers for group communication phase. At a user of one of the UEs initiates a group call by for example pressing the PTT button to request the floor for a group call. At the UE selects the call identifier s corresponding to the group requested by the user for one of the pre established groups and includes it in the generated request to talk or send media i.e. the PTT floor request in the example of . The client may create another process dedicated to this now active call and dedicate memory resources for the call.

At the UE sends the request to talk or send media to the application server via the E UTRAN and the SGW and the PGW of the EPC . At the application server receives the call identifier of the pre established group looks up the corresponding group identifier using the call identifier identifies the other participants in the group using the group identifier and notifies the other participants i.e. the remaining UEs in the example of . The application server notifies the other participants using application layer signaling either on the common eMBMS bearers used for the call or on dedicated bearers for target UEs or a combination of both depending on application layer methods. The application server may create another process dedicated to this now active call and dedicate memory resources for the call.

At the application server sends a floor request granted message to the calling UE on unicast bearers via the SGW and PGW of the EPC and the E UTRAN . At the calling UE transmits a talk spurt or media for the group to the application server via the E UTRAN the SGW and the PGW. At the application server forwards the talk spurt or media to the other members of the group of UEs via the BM SC of the EPC and the E UTRAN on the common eMBMS bearers used for media delivery for the call or on dedicated bearers for target UEs or a combination of both depending on application layer methods.

The above properties do not change during the call. However once a call is incident on the application server certain properties are available or may change during the call. The collective reference of the static properties for a group referenced by the group identifier and the dynamic properties that are only available during call setup are referenced by the call identifier.

For each group where the user is defined in the member list the application server provides the group identifier the corresponding call identifier and the corresponding TMGI. This mapping of the group identifier to the call identifier and the TMGI uniquely identifies the call. As such the client receives a list of the above mapping for each group which is referred to herein as providing a multiplexing of call identifiers to the UE in a single response.

By pre establishing all the requisite calls for the user on the eMBMS system using a single request and by providing the call identifier the system disclosed herein eliminates the need for multiple session requests thereby optimizing signaling traffic. Further by eliminating the need for separate context maintenance for each session the system disclosed herein also reduces the memory constraints on the UE and the application server.

At however if the client UE has indicated the use of pre established call setup the application server retrieves the group list from the database such as database in . At the application server determines whether or not all the group calls requiring pre established call setup are activated. If they are activated then the flow proceeds to . If they are not activated then at the application server determines whether or not the group call can be multiplexed on existing eMBMS bearers. If multiplexing is desired then the flow proceeds to the call set up procedure at . If the bearer is not pre established and multiplexing on an existing bearer is not desired then at the application server pre establishes the call and reserves resources for it including a call identifier for floor control.

At if all of the group calls requiring pre established call setup are activated the application server proceeds with call setup procedures and adds the client UE s bearer information such as its IP address or network identifier to each groups call participation list. Thus each group builds a list of participants and their unicast bearer information apart from the common eMBMS bearer information. The application server then selects a call identifier to be used for in call communication. Since the group is inactive the application server adds information about this group to a single process that handles idle calls and no resources are allocated for the call.

At the application server delivers the multiplexed notification to the client UE regarding each pre established group and provides the call identifier.

At the client UE adds the information to a process handling idle calls and no resources are assigned. The application server waits for any floor request messages. When making a floor request the client UE will use the call identifier for the group.

At the application server looks up the group and its participants based on the call identifier. Since the group is active the application server creates a new process for the call and assigns resources. At the application server delivers in call signaling regarding the floor notification to the participants and grants the floor to the requesting UE using the group identifier in the call signaling messages.

At the participating client UEs monitoring the eMBMS bearers based on the TMGIs receive the call signaling message from the application server and identify the group based on the call identifier. The participating client UEs prepare to receive the talk spurt or media.

At the client UE requesting the delivery of the talk spurt or media uses the call identifier in the signaling and media messages and forwards the media to the application server . At the application server forwards the media to the participating client UEs based on their bearer identifiers or IP addresses. At the talk spurt or media transmission ends. The application server starts a hang timer. At on expiry of the hang timer the application server releases the process assigning thus releasing the memory resources assigned for the call. The network and eMBMS resources are still maintained.

The above described aspects provide several advantages over the conventional art. For example by using multiplexing techniques the system disclosed herein uses minimal network and computing resources on the various devices e.g. the application server and UEs . Also a similar scheme can be extended to one to one calls where the application server provides an identifier for every combination of a user s contacts.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor.

Accordingly an embodiment of the disclosure can include a computer readable media embodying a method for group communications over eMBMS. Accordingly the disclosure is not limited to illustrated examples and any means for performing the functionality described herein are included in embodiments of the invention.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the disclosure it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the disclosure described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the disclosure may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

