---

title: 3-D printed packaging
abstract: Items may be packaged for shipping or storage using additive manufacturing techniques, also known as three dimensional (3-D) printing. Packages made by such processes may be referred to as 3-D printed packages and may include packing material printed at least partially around the item(s) and/or an outer cover printed about at least a portion of an exterior of the packing material and/or the item(s). A packaging system may include a 3-D printer and a computing device communicatively coupled to the 3-D printer. The computing device may obtain a packaging model describing a package for one or more items. A print module of the computing device may include instructions to print the package at least partially about the item(s) according to the packaging model.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09248611&OS=09248611&RS=09248611
owner: 
number: 09248611
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140103
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 887 973 filed Oct. 7 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Products are commonly packaged by a manufacturer or distributor prior to sale. This sort of packaging is referred to as retail packaging. Retail packaging varies widely depending on the products to be packaged the size and the weight of the products the durability or fragility of the products where and how the products are to be sold and numerous other factors. The retail packaging for a particular product is often designed specifically for the particular product. Considerable time and expense goes into designing retail packaging for a product. Due to the specialized nature of retail packaging the retail packaging for one product is not likely to be suitable for another product. Thus the cost of designing retail packaging for a product significantly increases the cost of making the product available for sale. Such upfront design costs may make retail packaging of some low volume or limited run products cost prohibitive.

Products and other items collectively referred to as items may subsequently be packaged for storage and or shipping. This sort of packaging is referred to as non retail packaging. Non retail packaging typically employs general purpose packaging supplies such as cardboard boxes bubble wrap polystyrene peanuts tissue paper shrinkwrap packing tape and the like. Such general purpose packaging supplies are readily available but are not particularly suited for the specific items to be packaged. Consequently items may be damaged during storage and or transportation. Furthermore the effectiveness of packaging is dependent largely on how the user chooses to package the item. Many users lack the skills or experience to effectively package items.

This application describes using 3 D printing or other additive manufacturing techniques for retail packaging i.e. packaging of a product prior to sale by a manufacturer distributor or the like and or non retail packaging e.g. packaging for storage shipping or the like . As used herein the term non retail packaging refers to any packaging for storage and or shipping whether performed before or after a sale to a consumer. That is non retail packaging includes shipping from a manufacturer to a customer shipping from a manufacturer to distributor shipping from a distributor to a customer shipping from any image individual to another and or packaging item s for storage.

In some instances the techniques described herein may be used to generate retail packaging for new products and or existing products e.g. repackaging of products with damaged or opened packaging to refresh or update packaging to package the product for a new or different market to add additional or alternative packaging features etc. . The techniques described herein may additionally or alternatively be used to generate non retail packaging for products and other items unpackaged items items packaged using conventional retail packaging techniques and or items packaged using the retail packaging techniques described herein . In some instances the techniques described herein may be usable to generate packages that serve as both retail packaging and non retail packaging. Additionally in some examples the techniques described herein may be used in conjunction with 3 D printing of products themselves. For instance after printing a product using 3 D printing techniques a retail or non retail package may then be printed for the product. The package may be printed as part of a same printing operation as the product itself or as a separate printing operation in the same or different printing area.

While many of the examples are described as using 3 D printing and or being implemented by a 3 D printer the techniques described herein are also applicable to other forms of additive manufacturing. Unless specifically noted to the contrary the terms 3 D printing and 3 D printer are used herein to mean additive manufacturing and additive manufacturing machines respectively.

As shown in system includes a computing device in communication with a 3 D printer . In the illustrated example the system also includes a scanner and an item manipulator . However in other examples the scanner and or manipulator may be omitted or combined with each other the 3 D printer and or computing device . When present the scanner may comprise a 3 D optical scanner a 3 D laser scanner and or one or more cameras to obtain information about an item such as its visual appearance outer dimensions or the like. Numerous different scanners are available such as for example the exaCT s CT Workstation or the Shapetracer Laser Line Scanner both available from Wenzel America of Wixom Mich. or the Artec Spikder Artec L or Artec EVA 3 D Scanners available from Artec Group of Palo Alto Calif. In some examples the scanner may additionally or alternatively comprise an ultrasound scanner an x ray scanner a spectrometer a scale and or other scanning or sensing equipment to determine interior characteristics of the item materials from which the item is made weight of the item volume of the item density of the item and the like.

In some examples the computing device may recognize the item based on the scan. The computing device may recognize the item by for example reading a product identifier e.g. universal product code or UPC model number serial number bar code quick response code or other identifier of the item if available and then query a product catalog model store or other database to obtain additional information about the item. The computing device may additionally or alternatively recognize the item using object recognition e.g. by comparing the scan or a vector representation of the scan to a database of reference scans or images of items . Once an item is recognized the computing device may obtain additional information about the item such as a computer model of the item a textual description of the item product reviews of the item human input information about the item web pages related to the item or any other available information about the item.

The item manipulator may comprise a robotic arm or other computer controlled manipulator. In some examples the item manipulator may be specialized to move the item within the system . For instance the item manipulator may include specialized hardware e.g. item engaging tools designed specifically for a particular type or shape of item and or software e.g. customized code for a particular operation or set of operations . In that case the item manipulator may be capable of limited and or predetermined motions. However in other examples the item manipulator may comprise a robotic arm with a configurable or articulatable item engaging tool or other manipulator having multiple degrees of freedom and capable of a wide range of motion. Numerous different manipulators are available depending on the specific tasks to be performed. In one specific example a six axis robotic arm such as the Adapt Viper line of robotic arms available from Adept Technology Inc. of Pleasanton Calif. In some embodiments the item manipulator may additionally or alternatively comprise a conveyor belt rollers or other mechanisms to move items from one location and or orientation to another.

The computing device 3 D printer scanner and or item manipulator are in communication with one another over a wired and or wireless network. The network of system may be further connected to one or more other local and or wide area networks such as the Internet.

When an item is received the item may be placed in a scanning area where the item may be scanned by the scanner to determine the nature of the item. Once the item has been scanned and the system has determined the nature of the item to be packaged the item may be moved to a printing area where the item will be packaged. The item may be packaged alone or with one or more other items e.g. other items that are part of a same order and or are to be shipped to the same location . Once the item s are packaged the packaged item s may be output to an output area for storage shipping and or further processing. The following description describes the process of packaging a single item. However it should be understood that the process may also be used to print packaging for around multiple items.

The computing device comprises one or more processors and memory . The processor s may comprise one or more microprocessors e.g. central processing units graphics processing units etc. each having one or more processing cores one or more microcontrollers or the like. The memory may be configured to store one or more software and or firmware modules which are executable by the processor s to implement various functions. While the modules are described herein as being software and or firmware executable by one or more processors in other embodiments any or all of the modules or functional blocks may be implemented in whole or in part by hardware e.g. as an application specific integrated circuit or ASIC a specialized processing unit a field programmable gate array or FPGA etc. to execute the described functions. The memory may comprise computer readable media and or devices and may take the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile memory such as read only memory ROM or flash RAM. Computer readable media includes volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data for execution by one or more processors or circuits of a computing device. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to phase change memory PRAM static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM other types of random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disk read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other non transmission medium that can be used to store information for access by a computing device. As defined herein computer readable media includes hardware and does not include modulated data signals or carrier waves.

Referring back to the memory includes a scanner module a modeling module a print module and manipulator module and a model store . The scanner module may provide an interface e.g. driver application programming interface or API or the like to the scanner . For instance the scanner module may provide commands to control the scanner to obtain information about the item. The scanner module may additionally receive the output of scanner i.e. the scanned image s or sensor data captured by the scanner . From the output of the scanner the scanner module is able to generate an item model if one did not already exist or may select and or supplement an existing item model if one already exists . Once generated selected and or supplemented the item model may be stored in the model store or other repository for subsequent access by local and or remote computing devices.

The modeling module generates a computer model of the packaging that is to be applied to the item. In other words the modeling module determines the geometry and layout of the package that should be used to package the item taking into account the item model . The modeling module generates a packaging model describing the geometry layout of the package. The packaging model may be stored in the model store . While the item models and packaging models are both shown as being stored in model store in this example in other examples the item models and packaging models may be stored separately in memory or at one or more other data stores in communication with the computing device . The modeling module may be a stand alone module or may be a part of an add on to or may otherwise integrate with a 3 D modeling program such as SolidWorks available from Dassault Syst mes SolidWorks Corp. of Waltham Mass. Pro Engineer available from PTC of Needham Mass. or the like.

Print module may provide an interface e.g. driver application programming interface or API or the like between the computing device and the 3 D printer . For example the print module may include a printer driver and may provide commands controlling a print head of the 3 D printer. Print module may control the 3 D printer to generate packaging for the item according to packaging model . The print module may control among other things the material or materials from which the package is to be printed print speed of a print head of the 3 D printer size and shape of packing material and or an outer surface or shell of the package.

The manipulator module may provide an interface e.g. driver application programming interface or API or the like between the computing device and the item manipulator . For example the manipulator module may be usable by the computing device to direct the item manipulator to move the item before during and or after printing the package. For instance the manipulator module may direct the item manipulator to place the item into the scanning area to rotate or otherwise move the object in the scanning area to move the object from the scanning area into the printing area to rotate or otherwise move the object in the printing area and or to remove the item from the printing area .

The computing device also includes one or more network connections to connect the computing device to the other devices in the system as well as to one or more other local and or wide area networks. In some examples the network connections may allow a user such as a purchaser of an item to specify how the item is to be packaged for shipping to the purchaser or another intended recipient.

When the item is placed in the scanning area the scanner may scan the item. From the scan the computing device may obtain information to determine the nature of the item from one or more sources. For instance as discussed above the computing device may recognize the item based on a product identifier or based on object recognition. If the computing device recognizes the item the computing device may query one or more data sources to obtain additional information about the item. For instance the computing device may reference the model store to determine whether or not a computer model of the item exists. If a computer model of the item exists the computing device may reference an item model corresponding to the item to determine the geometry materials weight volume density and or other characteristics of the item. If a computer model of the item is not available the computing device may scan the item using scanner to determine one or more characteristics of the item. In some instances the computing device may have or be able to obtain e.g. through external resources via the Internet a complete item model including exterior dimensions interior dimensions weight volume density materials of construction surface finish and the like. In other instances the computing device may have a limited or partial item model which describes less than all characteristics of the item. For instance a limited or partial item model might only include exterior dimensions of the item.

Based on item model the item modeling module may construct or obtain e.g. through external resources via a network such as the Internet a packaging model for the item. The modeling module may include a material palette defining the materials that are available from which to construct a package for the item. The modeling module may further include one or more packaging elements such as templates and previously stored design elements. For instance packaging elements may include computer models of ribs flanges honeycomb structures bubble structures trusses or other design elements features or parts. The modeling module may also include a physics engine to model forces that are likely to be applied by and or to the item during storage shipping and or sale. In one example the physics engine may take into account characteristics of the item e.g. size shape weight fragility durability etc. based on the item model material properties e.g. strength elasticity ductility hardness etc. of the item and available packaging materials from the material pallet forces to which the item may be exposed e.g. gravity inertia impact air resistance etc. and or other factors e.g. price scarcity shipping mode storage location intended use etc. obtained from item catalogs product reviews web sites and or other sources. In some instances the physics engine may obtain such information for an item at least in part from a product identifier of the item. The foregoing description is of just one example and in other examples the physics engine and modeling module may obtain information needed to perform their respective functions directly or indirectly from the enumerated sources or from other available sources.

Based on the foregoing criteria modeling module may generate the packaging model customized for the item to withstand the forces that are likely to be applied. For example the physics engine may determine that based on a strength and weight of the item and a distance that the item is likely to be dropped during shipping the packaging should be able to withstand a certain impact force. In another example the physics engine may determine that based on the strength and weight item and a number of items that are commonly stacked on top of one another the packaging should be able to support a certain static load. In some examples the physics engine may employ finite element analysis FEA or other mathematical techniques to model static and or dynamic systems in which the item may be used stored shipped and or the forces to which the item is likely to be exposed.

In other examples instead of computing the forces to which the item is likely to be subjected the physics engine may categorize the item into one or more categories and may apply predetermined packaging rules designs or templates corresponding to the one or more categories. For instance if the item has a density less than a certain threshold the physics engine may categorize the item as being a light weight item. The physics engine may further categorize the item as being a fragile item if for example it has relatively thin spans of material is made of a brittle or low strength material or is for other reasons susceptible to damage. The physics engine may then identify e.g. from a look up table or matrix one or more packaging structures to use for the item based on the categorizations of light weight and fragile. The physics engine may further modify or customize the packaging structures based on for example the size weight or other characteristics of the item. For instance the physics engine may determine a packing structure or combination of packing structures e.g. bubble and web structures in this example to use to package an item based on its categorization e.g. light weight and fragile . The physics engine may then adjust the number of packing structures e.g. number of bubbles and or webs in this example size of packaging structures e.g. width height thickness diameter etc. quantity of material used to generate the packing structures e.g. mass or volume the material from which the packing structures are constructed e.g. hard plastic elastomer metal etc. and or other characteristics of the packing structures e.g. corner rounding gussets fillets etc. according to the characteristics of the item. In some embodiments the physics engine may additionally or alternatively take into account the value of the item constraints on the cost of the package e.g. what the customer is willing to pay constraints on the size and or weight of the package e.g. due to postal or other delivery requirements or other considerations.

Additional details of the packaging structures are described below in the section entitled Example Packing Structures. 

In some examples before and or after the item is placed in the printing area the item may have a release applied so that the 3 D printed packaging does not stick to or damage the item. In one example the computing device may instruct the item manipulator to apply the release to the item while in other examples the release may be applied to the item by another device or process prior to or after being placed in the printing area . In some examples the release may comprise a chemical or material e.g. corn starch wax paper metal foil etc. applied to item to prevent the 3 D printed packaging material from adhering or bonding to the item. In other examples the release may comprise a property imparted to the item e.g. an electrostatic charge a polished surface finish a cold temperature electromagnetic radiation etc. that helps to prevent the 3 D printed packaging material from adhering or bonding to the item. In still other examples the release may be omitted e.g. if the 3 D printed packaging material does not adhere to the material of the item if a gap is maintained between the item and the 3 D printed packaging material during printing and or if it is desired that the 3 D printed packaging material adhere or bond to the item . In still other examples a release may be applied to some parts of an item but not other parts such as limited corners or edge points of the item to allow the package to adhere to or form a weak bond with the item e.g. to secure the package to the item during shipping . In such an example the limited corners or edge points that are not coated with the release may be sized and positioned such that the adhesion or weak bonds may be easily broken upon opening the package to separate the item from the package. The release may be applied before during or in the case where part of the package is printed before the item is placed in the printing area after the printing process commences.

Once the packaging model has been generated and the item is otherwise ready for packaging e.g. any desired release has been applied any other items that are to be packaged with the item are present etc. the computing device may initiate the printing process. In some examples the item may be placed in the printing area before printing commences and the package may be printed around the item. In other examples at least a portion of a package may be printed before the item is placed in the printing area . For instance the computing device may instruct the 3 D printer e.g. via print module to print a bottom or side surface and or one or more support structures of a package prior to instructing the item manipulator e.g. via the manipulator module to place the item into the printing area . The item manipulator may then place the item into onto the partially printed package e.g. onto already printed support structures and or into an already partially printed shell of a package the computing device may then cause the 3 D printer to print the remainder of the package around the item.

In some examples the package printed by the printing process may be one continuous part. In that case the package may completely encapsulate the item or may cover only part of the item. In the case that the package encapsulates the item the package may provide an air and or water tight package. In some examples the package may be hermetically sealed. Because the package is 3 D printed the package may be seamless minimizing chances that the package will catch on surfaces it comes into contact with and consequently minimizing the chances of damage to the package or the surfaces with which it comes into contact. The seamless surfaces of the package may also improve material handling capabilities. For instance the seamless surfaces of the package may make the package easier to slide on conveyors easier to pick up e.g. with suction devices or grippers easier to stack and load etc. The seamless appearance may also provide a clean aesthetically appealing appearance.

In other examples the package maybe printed as multiple parts to facilitate opening or unpackaging the item. For instance the package may comprise multiple parts that fit together like a 3 D puzzle and or are held in place by one or more other parts. Additionally or alternatively the package may include one or more opening features to help assist in the opening of the package. By way of example and not limitation the package may include one or more thinned or frangible regions where the package is configured to separate during opening one or more tabs or finger holds configured to be grasped by a user or the like.

During or after 3 D printing the package structure one or more pieces of information may be printed onto the package. The information may include for example shipping information e.g. sender and or recipient address postage for the package a packing list of the item s in the package shipping instructions e.g. fragile this end up etc. opening instructions set up or assembly instructions quick start instructions description of features of the package e.g. child safety desiccant etc. warning labels e.g. hazardous materials a list of materials from which the package is constructed a packaging license e.g. by opening this package you agree to be bound by the terms . . . a machine readable code e.g. quick response code bar code 3 D relief code or the like a date on which the package was printed a location at which the package was printed an entity that printed the package an identifier of the printer that printed the package or any other pertinent information. The information may be printed in 2 D or 3 D by the 3 D printer or by a 2 D printer located in or proximate the printing area .

In some examples 3 D printed packaging may be combined with one or more conventional packaging techniques to result in one or more hybrid techniques. In one example the package may comprise a preprinted or preformed container such as a cardboard box. A 3 D printed package or portion of a 3 D printed package e.g. packing material may be placed in or printed and the preprinted or preformed container. For instance in one simple example 3 D printed packing material may be printed around an item the item enclosed in the packing material may then be placed inside the preformed container. Alternatively the preformed container may be placed in the printing area a portion of packing material may be printed within the container and item may be placed in the container and the partially printed packing material and a remaining portion of the packing material may be printed around the item within the container.

In another example a conventionally packaged item may further have a 3 D printed package printed around the conventional package. For instance an item may be packaged in conventional packing materials such as bubble wrap tissue paper or the like and or may be placed in a conventional container such as a cardboard box. The conventionally wrapped item may then be placed into the printing area and a 3 D printed package including a shell and or packing material may be printed around the conventionally packaged item.

As discussed above structure of package may be based upon the fragility of the item the weight of the item the shipping distance shipping mode and or the value of the item. For instance fragile items may be packaged with a more protective structure of packing material than sturdy items. Heavy items may be packaged with a more robust structure of packing material than light weight items. The shipping distance shipping mode and value of the item may also be taken into account with further distances and higher values resulting in more robust packing structures than shorter distances and lower values. Likewise certain shipping modes e.g. freight bulk rate etc. may result in more robust packing than others e.g. airmail courier drone etc. . The robustness of a package may be adjusted by adjusting one or more of the type of support structure e.g. lattice structure a honeycomb structure a truss structure a bubble structure one or more support ribs web structure loose particles or fibers etc. quantity of packing material e.g. volume mass thickness etc. material used for packing material e.g. plastic rubber silicone silicon glass metal stone composites of any of the foregoing etc. and or characteristics of the packing material e.g. strength of material hardness toughness elasticity vibration damping ability thermal insulating ability etc. .

Multiple different packing materials and or support structures may be used to package the item. For example different support structures and or crumple zones may be used in different portions of the package. For example a relatively hard and or rigid inner support structure may be formed immediately around e.g. directly surrounding the item while a softer and or more flexible material may be formed around the inner support structure or vice versa.

The package A in this example completely surrounds or encapsulates the item and includes packing material A that completely surrounds the item and an outer cover or shell A disposed around an exterior of the packing material A. The packing material A may comprise a lattice structure a honeycomb structure a truss structure a bubble structure a web structure one or more support ribs loose particles or fibers and or other structures that may support the item in the package A. Furthermore the packing material A may comprise any of the materials described herein. The specific support structure s and or material s used may depend on the desired strength strength to weight ratio density rigidity flexibility vibration damping impact absorption thermal and or electrical insulation or other characteristics of the package A. In some examples the size material and or other characteristics of the package A may be based at least in part on a weight durability and or cost of the item .

In the example of the packing material A is shown as being substantially homogenous throughout the package A. However in other examples the packing material may be heterogeneous e.g. including multiple distinct areas of different support structures and or different packing materials . Also while the package A is shown as having only a single region of packing material A and a single shell A in other examples packages may include multiple packing materials and or regions of packing materials and or multiple outer covers or shells. In one specific example a first portion of the packing material A e.g. a region proximate to the item may be printed of a desiccant material such as silica activated charcoal calcium sulfate calcium chloride and molecular sieves rice or the like while a second portion of the packing material A is made of a non desiccant material. In other examples the packing material A may be made entirely of desiccant material. In either of the foregoing examples the second portion of the packing material A and or the shell may form a seal e.g. hermetic seal around the item and the first portion of the packing material A comprising the desiccant material. Furthermore in other examples packages may omit either the packing material or the shell or may employ a composite packing shell which may be homogenous or heterogeneous.

In some embodiments a volume occupied by the packing material A may have a lower density than a volume occupied by the shell A. This may be accomplished by structural and or material differences between the packing material A and the shell A. In some examples this may be accomplished by making the packing material A porous and or including voids cavities pouches or bubbles while the making the shell A of a solid and or non porous material. In that case the packing material A may be made of the same or different material than the shell A. The pores voids cavities pouches and or bubbles may be filled with air or other gas or may be substantially empty space e.g. vacuums or partial vacuums . In some examples a region defined by the packing material A may include about 30 to 70 by volume of air gas and or substantially empty space. In other examples the region defined by the packing material A may include 70 or more by volume of air gas and or substantially empty space. Additionally or alternatively this difference in density between the packing material A and the shell A may be accomplished by making the packing material A of a lower density material e.g. plastic polystyrene etc. than the shell A e.g. metal higher density plastic etc. .

Also in this example the package B includes an outer shell B disposed around shell A. The shells A and B may be made of the same or different material and may have the same or different structures. In one example the outer shell B may be made of a harder or more rigid material than the shell A. Additionally or alternatively the shell A may be made of a material that is more flexible deformable and or has a greater damping ability than the outer shell B thereby further isolating the item from vibrations or impacts imparted to the exterior of the package B.

Also in this embodiment the item is disposed in the package B off center. The location of the item within the package A may be chosen based on a center of gravity of the item a relative durability of the different portions of the item or the like. For instance in the example of the item may be disposed toward the bottom left of the package B based on the item having a center of gravity located at the top right corner of the item such that the center of gravity of the item is located near a center of the package B. Additionally or alternatively the item may be disposed toward the bottom left of the package B based on the item having a fragile region on the top right of the item thereby providing a larger region of packing material between the fragile region of the item and the outside of the package B.

Another example support structure includes a bubble or air pocket structure in which a relatively thin membrane of material is printed to form bubbles or air pockets. The bubbles or air pockets may be uniform in size shape and or wall thickness or may vary in size shape and or wall thickness. In some examples the bubbles or air pockets may be individually sealed while in other examples some or all of the bubbles or air pockets may be in communication with one or more other of the bubbles or air pockets via one or more air passages. In the latter case the air passages may be sized to restrict passage of air thus providing a damping effect to damp vibration and or absorb impact. The size of the air passages may be uniform throughout or may be varied to restrict airflow more in some areas than others.

Yet another example support structure includes a sponge like structure having a plurality of voids or pores. The voids or pores may be uniform in size and or shape or may be variable. Moreover the voids may be evenly spaced throughout the sponge structure or may be non uniformly spaced throughout the sponge structure.

Any of the foregoing structures may be modified and or combined with each other or other structures to produce packages according to this disclosure. By way of example and not limitation the honeycomb structure of may be modified to include gussets or corner rounding between adjacent chambers of the honeycomb to further increase a structural integrity and minimize stress risers in the structure.

For instance in the illustrated example the bottom packing material and the top packing material may comprise a flexible or deformable material and may have a bubble or sponge structure configured to dampen vibration and or absorb impacts applied to the packaged item . In the illustrated example the bottom packing material and the top packing material are two separate pieces of material that may be pulled apart to access the item once the shell is removed. The bottom packing material and the top packing material may be made of the same or different materials. The packing material disposed around the handle of the mug is an example of packing material that may be used to protect fragile regions of the item . In this example the packing material may comprise a relatively hard material having a relatively rigid structure e.g. lattice truss or rib structures that supports and protects the fragile portion the handle in this example of the item. In some examples the packing material may comprise multiple parts that fit together around the fragile part and are separable to remove the packing material once the package is opened. The packing material within a cavity of the item the reservoir of the mug in this example may be made of yet another material and or structure designed to provide a relatively rigid supporting structure e.g. honeycomb to prevent the item from being crushed when exposed to outside forces.

The package may also include one or more printed opening mechanisms to facilitate opening the package. In this example the opening mechanism includes a tear strip disposed around at least a portion of a perimeter of the package outside the packing material and but within the shell . The tear strip may be made of a material having strength greater than a material of the shell . Additionally or alternatively the shell may include a frangible feature or other region aligned with the tear strip to facilitate tearing or breaking of the shell along the frangible seam or region. The frangible feature may comprise for example one or more perforations thinned or weakened areas and or notches or grooves. In the illustrated example the tear strip protrudes through the shell and includes a pull tab or other graspable member. In such an example a user may grasp the pull tab and pull the tear strip to tear or otherwise break the shell . Once the shell is broken it may be removed and the user may pull apart the top and bottom packing materials and to expose the item . The packing materials and may then be removed from the item.

In other examples the tear strip may not protrude from the shell . In that case the package may include a visual indicator of how the package is to be opened. For instance the package may have a dashed line printed on an exterior of the package where the tear strip is located a picture showing a person opening the package and or textual instructions for how to open the package.

Additionally in some embodiments the opening mechanism may comprise a child resistant opening mechanism that is readily operable by an adult but is difficult or impossible to open by a child. In one example a child resistant opening mechanism may be implemented using the tear strip shown in by making the tearing force required to pull the tab at or above a threshold force requiring more strength to open than a typical child possesses. The tearing force may be set at or above the threshold by for example selecting a thickness and or material of the shell to provide the threshold force.

The process is illustrated as collections of blocks and or arrows in logical flowcharts representing a sequence of operations that can be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. The order in which the blocks are described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described operations can be combined in any order to implement the process or alternate processes. Additionally individual operations may be omitted from the process without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. In the context of software the blocks represent computer instructions that when executed by one or more processors perform the recited operations. Such instructions may be resident in memory e.g. memory of . In the context of hardware the blocks may represent one or more circuits e.g. ASICs FPGAs specialized processors or the like configured to execute the recited operations.

The example process includes at block determining one or more characteristics of one or more items to be packaged. The characteristics may include any measurable or observable property of the item such as for example geometry internal and or external size shape materials weight volume density color hardness strength surface finish temperature chemical composition or the like. The characteristic s of the item may be determined in a variety of ways. By way of example and not limitation characteristics of each item may be determined by referencing a computer model for the item block scanning the item block and or receiving human input describing the item block . Any or all of these operations or other operations may be used to determine characteristics of the item s to be packaged.

At block characteristics of the item may be determined by referencing a computer model of the item if available or other information about the item. For example a computing device such as computing device may refer to a computer model of the item such as item model . The item model maybe stored locally at the computing device or stored remotely and accessible by the computing device via a network e.g. a local or wide area network . In some examples a user may specifically provide or identify the item model that the computing device is to reference for a given item e.g. by uploading selecting or otherwise identifying the item model . In other examples the computing device may automatically identify an item model corresponding to the item in response to recognizing the item. In various examples the computing device may recognize the item by one or more of optical recognition of the item e.g. by comparison of an image of the item with a catalog or potential items such as items in an inventory scanning an item identifier e.g. bar code quick response code radio frequency identification tag etc. or the like. In some instances the item model may include only dimensional information of the item while in other instances the item model may include information about materials manufacturing techniques surface finishes and other information about the item.

At block characteristics of the item may be determined by scanning the item. For example a computing device such as computing device may obtain scan information from a scanner such as scanner . In some examples the computing device may control the scanner or otherwise cause the scanner to scan each item while in other examples the scanner may scan each item independently of the computing device and may make the scan information available to the computing device e.g. by storing the scan information in a model store such as model store by pushing the scan information to the computing device or by allowing the computing device to query the scanner to obtain the computing device . As noted above the scanner may comprise a 3 D optical scanner a 3 D laser scanner one or more cameras to determine outer dimensions of the item an ultrasound scanner an x ray scanner a spectrometer a scale and or other scanning or sensing equipment to determine interior characteristics of the item materials from which the item is made weight of the item volume of the item density of the item and the like. These scanned characteristics of the item may be obtained and or used in addition to or instead of characteristics determined from the item model if available . For instance in some examples the scanned characteristics may be used to supplement an item model e.g. to provide material information weight density or the like to supplement an item model that only includes geometric information of the item . Further as noted above some scanned characteristics may be used to recognize the item in order to identify an item model corresponding to the item. In still further examples the scanned characteristics may be used to generate an item model for an item for which an item model was not previously available.

At block human input may be used to determine characteristics of the item. The human input may be preexisting information e.g. product specifications item descriptions brochures websites etc. describing the item. Additionally or alternatively the human input may be generated substantially at the time the item is to be packaged e.g. by an operator of the computing device scanner or 3 D printer inputting a description of one or more characteristics of the item . In yet another example human input may be obtained from one or more remote human users by for example searching for customer reviews of the item e.g. on one or more merchant web sites or the internet requesting human users to describe the item e.g. requesting information about the item via a mechanical Turk service or the like.

The method may further include at block preparing a printing area for the item s . Preparing the printing area may include cleaning the printing area following a previous printing operation manipulating one or more other objects e.g. items or packages in the printing area block and or printing a portion of a package to receive the item block . In some instances manipulating the one or more other objects at block may simply comprise removing a package from a previous printing operation. In other instances multiple items may be sequentially packaged in the printing area. In that case manipulating one or more other objects at block may comprise placing a pallet tray or other support surface into the printing area rearranging or reorienting a support surface previously placed in the printing area and or moving or reorienting one or more packaged items in the printing area. In one specific example multiple items may be sequentially packaged in situ on a pallet or other support surface. Once the support surface is fully loaded the support surface may be removed from the printing area along with the multiple packaged items supported thereon.

As noted in some examples preparing the printing area may comprise at block printing a portion of a package for the item. The portion of the package printed may depend on the nature of the item to be packaged and may include for example a base sidewall receptacle one or more supports or the like. In one simple example a base or bottom of a package may be printed in the printing area on which the item may be placed. For instance referring to the example of above a bottom portion of the shell and packing material may be printed in the printing area as part of preparing the printing area to receive the item .

Additionally or alternatively the method may include at block preparing the item to be packaged. In some instances the item may not require any special preparation prior to printing. However in other examples at block a release may be applied to the item to prevent the packaging material from adhering to or damaging the item. In one example a computing device such as the computing device may instruct a tool such as item manipulator to apply the release to the item while in other examples the release may be applied to the item by another device or process prior to or after being placed in the printing area. In some examples the release may comprise a chemical or material e.g. corn starch wax paper metal foil etc. applied to item to prevent the 3 D printed packaging material from adhering or bonding to the item. In other examples the release may comprise a property imparted to the item e.g. an electrostatic charge a polished surface finish a cold temperature electromagnetic radiation etc. that helps to prevent the 3 D printed packaging material from adhering or bonding to the item. In still other examples the release may be omitted e.g. if the 3 D printed packaging material does not adhere to the material of the item if a gap is maintained between the item and the 3 D printed packaging material during printing and or if it is desired that the 3 D printed packaging material adhere or bond to the item . As noted above the release may be applied before during or in the case where part of the package is printed before the item is placed in the printing area after the printing process commences.

While the foregoing examples describe operations to facilitate the packaging process the item may additionally or alternatively be subjected to one or more other operations in preparation to be packaged. For instance the item may be sanitized e.g. by chemical sanitizer steam irradiation or other sanitation mechanisms be subjected to a preserving process coated with a moisture barrier or any number of other processes depending on the item to be packaged.

At block the item maybe placed and or supported in the printing area and at block printing of the package around the item s may commence or continue in the case where the package was partially printed prior to the item being placed in the printing area . In some examples the item s or partially printed package may be manipulated during the printing process. For instance in one simple example an item may be placed in the printing area a top portion of a package may be printed around the item the package may then be rotated 180 degrees to expose the bottom of the item and the bottom portion of the package now oriented on the top may then be printed. In other examples the item may remain stationary during the printing process and one or more print heads of the 3 D printer may move around the item. In that case one or more surfaces or members supporting the item may move to maintain support of the item while accommodating movement of the print head s of the 3 D printer. As noted above in some examples the printing process may include printing one or more packages around one or more items simultaneously and or sequentially.

Once one or more packages have been printed at block information may be printed on the package in 2 D or 3 D. The information may be printed on the package s by the same 3 D print head s used to print the package s or by a separate 2 D printer located in or proximate the printing area. A wide range of information may be printed on the package s . By way of example and not limitation information that may be printed on the package s includes shipping information e.g. sender and or recipient address packing list of the item s in the package shipping instructions e.g. fragile this end up etc. opening instructions description of features of the package e.g. child safety desiccant etc. warning labels e.g. hazardous materials a list of materials from which the package is constructed a packaging license e.g. by opening this package you agree to be bound by the terms . . . a machine readable code e.g. quick response code bar code 3 D relief code or the like a date on which the package was printed a location at which the package was printed an entity that printed the package an identifier of the printer that printed the package marketing or advertising information an aesthetic design or image e.g. printed on wrapping paper or any other pertinent information.

At block the package s may be output. As noted above outputting the package may comprise outputting a single package containing one or more items or outputting multiple packages e.g. on a pallet or other support surface each containing one or more items. In one example a computing device such as computing device may instruct a tool such as manipulator to remove the packaged item s from the print area. In other examples the packaged items may be output from the printing area by one or more other systems in coordination with or independent of the computing device.

As discussed above in some examples multiple items may be packaged concurrently or sequentially. In the case where the items are to be packaged in multiple packages the size shape and configuration of one or more of the packages may be based at least in part on the size shape and configuration of others of the multiple packages. For instance if multiple packages are to be placed on a pallet or other support surface the size shape and or configuration of some or all of the packages may be chosen at least in part to result in a uniform well packed unit of packages. A uniform well packed unit of packages is one that is stable i.e. won t topple over and is substantially free of voids gaps and open spaces between packages. However uniform well packed unit of packages need not be completely free of voids gaps and open spaces. For instance a uniform well packed unit of packages may include voids gaps and open spaces to provide clearance to fit hands or package handling tools between packages to provide clearance for assembly or disassembly of packages to from the unit of packages to allow for expansion or contraction of the packages or the like. In some examples a uniform well packed unit of packages may be substantially cube shaped or rectangular prism shaped. However in other examples a uniform well packed unit of packages may take on other shapes. are top or cross sectional views of examples of uniform well packed units of packages.

In some examples all of the packages making up the unit of packages may be configured based at least in part the other packages in the unit of packages. In other examples a limited number of the packages e.g. a single package corner packages a row of packages etc. in the unit of packages may be configured based in part on a remaining space on a pallet or other support surface. In that case size and shape of the limited number of packages may be modified relative to the otherwise optimal size and shape for the package to fill a remaining space on a pallet or other support surface or a row of stacked packages to result in a uniform well packed unit of packages. In either of the foregoing examples the computing device may take into account the size and shape of multiple packages in a queue of packages to be printed when creating new package models. Furthermore as new packages are added to the queue the computing device may modify or adjust the size and shape of one or more other packages in the queue in order to create a uniform well packed unit of packages.

In some examples such as those shown in the packages making up the unit of packages may include one or more interlocking features configured to interlock with adjacent packages on the top bottom and or sides to hold the unit of packages together. Examples of interlocking features include without limitation protrusions grooves puzzle pieces channels ridges notches or the like. illustrates an example in which some packages have bulbous protrusions that slide into complimentary grooves in adjacent packages to lock the packages together. illustrates an example in which some packages include outwardly beveled protrusions e.g. male dovetails that fit into complimentary beveled channels e.g. female dovetails in adjacent packages to lock the packages together. In other examples such as the example shown in the packages themselves may be configured as puzzle pieces that lock together with one or more other packages. Additionally or alternatively one or more straps bands wraps supports or other structures may be printed around at least a portion of the unit of packages to secure the unit of packages together and or to the pallet or support surface. illustrates a band or strap surrounding a unit of packages. Similar bands or straps may also be provided around the circumference of the unit of packages in other dimensions e.g. when viewed from the front and or side . In some examples multiple bands or straps may be used in each dimension e.g. one band or strap around each row and or column of packages . In some examples such bands or straps may be applied using conventional strapping techniques. However in other examples the bands and or straps may be printed directly around the unit of packages during or after a process of printing the packages making up the unit of packages. The bands or straps may be made of plastic metal paper and or any other material suitable and or conventionally used for strapping purposes.

By taking into account characteristics of other items to be packaged a computing device such as computing device may ensure that not only is each item well packaged but also that the packages will fit together with the other items to create a unit of packages that can easily be transported and or stored together. Additionally the packages may be added to a pallet or other transport structure in an order that protects more fragile and or expensive items e.g. fragile and or expensive items may be placed at or near a top of a stack of packages . In one specific example multiple items all destined for a same destination e.g. city transfer station warehouse etc. may all be packaged concurrently or sequentially and placed on a pallet or other support surface for transfer to the destination.

Alternatively the packages making up the unit of packages may be independently packaged i.e. not taking into account the other packages in the unit of packages and or without knowledge of what unit of packages the package will be a part of . In that case a computing device such as computing device may determine for a plurality of packages how to stack and arrange them on one or more pallets or other support surfaces to provide the most uniform well packed unit s of packages possible. In some examples the computing device may further print one or more spacers or empty packages to fill gaps or voids in the unit of packages to improve a stability and or uniformity of the unit of packages. In some examples the computing device may direct an item manipulator such as item manipulator to stack the packages as the computing device directs. However in other examples the item manipulator may be programmed to stack the packages independently of the computing device. In some instances the item manipulator may use touch sensors on the item manipulator to determine the size and shape of the packages and to place them accordingly. In other examples the item manipulator may use input from a scanner such as scanner or one or more other cameras or sensors to determine the size and shape of the packages and to place them accordingly.

In yet another example multiple items may be packaged in multiple regions or compartments of a single package. Each region or compartment may include a single item or multiple items designed for a same destination. The package may include one or more separation features to allow separation of each of the multiple compartments or regions from the rest of the package. By way of example and not limitation each of the regions or compartments may be coupled to the package by a skin or one or more thin strips of material and one or more tear strips may be provided between the regions or compartments to separate the regions or compartments. Each region or compartment may be separated from the rest of the package by pulling on or otherwise breaking respective tear strips to separate the respective region or compartment into a separate package. In some examples pulling a single tear strip may separate multiple regions or compartments e.g. a whole row or column of packages from the package. Examples of other separation features include perforations notches thinned or weakened sections or the like.

In one example a 3 D printing system such as that shown in may be implemented as a packaging station. Such a station may be located in a bricks and mortar store such as a retail store or shipping store e.g. FedEx Kinkos UPS Store etc. a governmental building e.g. a post office an airport an indoor or outdoor kiosk a storage facility or at any other suitable location where items are to be packaged for shipping or storage. In this example the system may include a user terminal including a display and one or more input devices e.g. a microphone touch screen mouse keyboard etc. . The user may identify one or more items to be packaged by for example placing the item s in the printing area or another area proximate and or associated with the 3 D printing system selecting the items from a catalog or menu of items notifying a clerk or operator of the items or the like. In another example the user may have previously identified the item s from a remote terminal e.g. a personal computer mobile device or the like .

Additionally in some examples the user may be prompted or otherwise allowed to input additional information such as a purpose of the packaging e.g. storage shipping etc. a sender address a recipient address a shipping mode and or speed e.g. UPS ground FedEx overnight etc. any special handling instructions e.g. fragile hazardous materials etc. a cost of the item s an exterior decoration or wrapping and or one or more package features e.g. thermal insulation vibration damping hermetically sealed child safe tamper evident etc. . In other examples the packing station may automatically determine or infer any or all of these types of additional information. Additionally in some examples the 3 D printing system may display a price for packaging and or shipping the item and provide an interface by which the user can pay for the packaging storage and or shipping.

Regardless of how the items are identified to the 3 D printing system the item s may be packaged according to the method of or any other processes described herein. In some implementations the packaged item s may be automatically placed into storage and or shipped without any further input from the user. For instance the packages may be placed in a post printing staging area for pickup by a common carrier e.g. USPS UPS FedEx or the like transported to a carrier for shipping and or loaded onto a vehicle e.g. truck airplane ship drone etc. for shipping. Alternatively the packages may be placed in an output area for pickup and storage and or shipping by the user. In various examples the item s may be purchased prior to as part of or after the 3 D packaging process. In one specific example the user may go to a store select one or more items they want to purchase provide the item s to the 3 D packaging system and have the item packaged and or shipped.

In another example a 3 D printing system including some or all of the components and or techniques shown and described herein with or without other components may be implemented by an ecommerce merchant. Such a system may be located in a warehouse or fulfillment center of the ecommerce merchant and may utilize any or all of the structures techniques and systems described herein. When a user places an order for one or more items the one or more items may be provided to the 3 D printing system. In some examples the items may be retrieved by an employee robot conveyor and or other inventory management systems or tools of the ecommerce merchant and placed in the printing area or another proximate or associated area e.g. a staging area a bin of items to be packaged or the like . In other examples the items may be retrieved automatically by and or under the control of one or more automated systems e.g. robots conveyors machines computer systems etc. and made available to the 3 D printing system. In some examples the 3 D printing system may be communicatively coupled to the one or more automated systems.

In this example once the user purchases one or more items from the ecommerce merchant the item s may be automatically packaged and or shipped according to the method of or any other processes described herein.

While the examples above are generally applicable to packaging of any items the following example describes details suitable for packaging pharmaceutical compositions medications vitamins supplements and the like. This example may employ a 3 D printing system and or techniques such as that shown and described herein. In this example however the system may be located in a sterile environment.

In some examples one or more pills capsules gelcaps or other medicinal product may be packaged in a 3 D printed package according to according to the method of or any other processes described herein. In such an example the operation of preparing the printing area may comprise sterilizing the printing area. Further the 3 D printed package in such an example may include one or more tamper evident features and or child safety features such as those described above. In some examples the container may be formed and the medicinal product may be counted and placed in the container. In other examples the medicinal product may be placed in the printing are and the container may be formed around the medicinal product. Such an arrangement may allow for a wide variety of new and previously unattainable packaging solutions. In some examples the container may comprise a bottle pouch or other package into which individual pills capsules gelcaps or other doses of the medicinal product are placed. In that case the container may be made of a conventional plastic metal ceramic or other material commonly used to house medicinal products.

In other examples the 3 D printed container may comprise an ingestible capsule to hold a medicinal product in powder liquid solid or gel form.

In still other examples the medicinal product itself may be printed by the 3 D printing system. For instance a print media of the 3 D printing system may comprise a pharmaceutical composition. In that case the 3 D printer used in the system may be a food or pharmaceutical or food grade 3 D printer configured to print using pharmaceutical and or food grade print media such as compositions including for example one or more active ingredients with or without one or more fillers e.g. lactose cellulose corn starch sugars whey yeast etc. and or one or more binders e.g. povidone xanthan gum carbopol glycerine polylactic acid etc. or the like. Individual pills capsules gelcaps or other doses collectively referred to as pills of medicinal product may be formed e.g. printed in any desired shape and size customized for a particular user s dose and or may be printed directly into a container. The container itself may additionally or alternatively have been printed using the same or different 3 D printing system. Formulation of print media may be varied during print process to adjust concentration of active and or inactive ingredient in different pills and or in different parts of a single pill e.g. high concentration in exterior of pill for quick acting with lower concentration in interior of pill for long lasting . Print media may additionally or alternatively be varied to change the density and or solubility of different portions of the pill e.g. lower density and or higher solubility of a first portion to promote quick release of active ingredient with higher density and or lower solubility of a second portion to promote delayed release . Additionally or alternatively the formulation of the print media may be varied to use different active and or inactive ingredients in different pills and or different portions of a single pill e.g. different active ingredients in different portions of the pill . Color of the print media may also be varied in accordance with variations in formulation in order to visually indicate the changes in formulation. These variances in print media may be designed as multiple e.g. 2 3 4 . . . n discrete portions or the variances may be continuously variable e.g. the concentration density and or solubility of the print media may gradually increase from a minimum to a maximum .

The foregoing examples may be used to produce and or package medication as needed or on demand. As such the examples may find use in a staffed or self service pharmacy hospital doctor s office grocery store in a patient s home or the like. Moreover the examples may be applicable to bricks and mortar locations as well as online or mail order providers.

