---

title: Techniques for communication between service capability server and interworking function for device trigger recall/replace
abstract: Examples may include techniques for a device trigger recall or a device trigger replace procedure as implemented at a machine type communication-interworking function (MTC-IWF) in response to a command received from a service capability server (SCS). Examples may also include the SCS generating a command for a device trigger recall or a device replace to cause the MTC-IWF to implement the device trigger recall or device trigger replace procedure to either recall or replace a trigger message destined for user equipment. Both the MTC-IWF and the SCS may operate in compliance with one or more 3Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) Long Term Evolution (LTE) standards.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09301083&OS=09301083&RS=09301083
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09301083
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140911
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 924 194 filed on Jan. 6 2014 that is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application is related to International Patent Application Number PCT US2013 053470 filed on Feb. 8 2013.

With a wide range of potential applications machine type communication MTC or machine to machine M2M communication is gaining a tremendous interest among mobile network operators equipment vendors MTC specialist companies and research bodies. The idea of M2M communications is to enable M2M components to be interconnected networked and controlled remotely with low cost scalable and reliable technologies. M2M communication could be carried over mobile networks e.g. GSM GPRS CDMA EVDO networks . In the M2M communication the role of mobile network is largely confined to serve as a transport network.

M2M devices or user equipment UEs coupled to a mobile network may be capable of replying to request for data contained within these types of UEs responsive to trigger messages. These UEs may also be capable of transmitting data autonomously and parameters defining what or when data is transmitted may be adjusted or updated responsive to trigger messages.

Examples are generally directed to improvements for Machine Type Communication MTC or Machine to Machine M2M communication that may involve use of wireless mobile telecommunication cellular or wireless mobile broadband technologies. Wireless mobile broadband technologies may include any wireless technologies suitable for use with wireless devices or user equipment UE such as one or more third generation 3G fourth generation 4G or emerging fifth generation 5G wireless standards revisions progeny and variants. Examples of wireless mobile broadband technologies may include without limitation any of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16m and 802.16p standards 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE and LTE Advanced LTE A standards and International Mobile Telecommunications Advanced IMT ADV standards including their revisions progeny and variants. Other suitable examples may include without limitation Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technologies Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA technologies Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or the WiMAX II technologies Code Division Multiple Access CDMA 2000 system technologies e.g. CDMA2000 1 RTT CDMA2000 EV DO CDMA EV DV and so forth High Performance Radio Metropolitan Area Network HIPERMAN technologies as defined by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI Broadband Radio Access Networks BRAN Wireless Broadband WiBro technologies GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS system GSM GPRS technologies High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA technologies High Speed Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Packet Access HSOPA technologies High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA system technologies 3GPP Rel. 8 9 10 or 11 of LTE System Architecture Evolution SAE and so forth. The examples are not limited in this context.

By way of example and not limitation various examples may be described with specific reference to various 3GPP radio access network RAN standards such as the 3GPP Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN the 3GPP Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN and 3GPP s suite of UMTS and LTE LTE Advanced Technical Specifications in case of LTE LTE Advanced collectively 3GPP LTE Specifications according to the 36 Series of Technical Specifications and IEEE 802.16 standards such as the IEEE 802.16 2009 standard and current third revision to IEEE 802.16 referred to as 802.16Rev3 consolidating standards 802.16 2009 802.16h 2010 and 802.16m 2011 and the IEEE 802.16p draft standards including IEEE P802.16.1b D2 Jan. 2012 titled Draft Amendment to IEEE Standard for WirelessMAN Advanced Air Interface for Broadband Wireless Access Systems Enhancements to Support Machine to Machine Applications collectively IEEE 802.16 Standards and any drafts revisions or variants of the 3GPP LTE Specifications and the IEEE 802.16 Standards. Although some embodiments may be described as a 3GPP LTE Specifications or IEEE 802.16 Standards system by way of example and not limitation it may be appreciated that other types of communications system may be implemented as various other types of mobile broadband communications systems and standards. The examples are not limited in this context.

As contemplated in the present disclosure M2M devices or UEs may be capable of replying to a request for data contained within these types of UEs responsive to trigger messages. Triggering of UEs via trigger messages may be based on the use of an identifier identifying the UE that needs to be triggered. For example a trigger message may be used by the network to wake up a given UE e.g. to initiate communications. In other examples a services capability server SCS may use a trigger message to send information to another UE via a 3GPP network to trigger the other UE to perform application specific actions that include initiating communication with the SCS.

In some examples however an UE may become temporarily unavailable to receive trigger messages. For example the UE may be out of coverage resource constrained or runs out of storage space. In such cases the 3GPP network may store or en queue the undelivered trigger messages for the UE and may re attempt delivery at a later stage if the trigger validity period has not expired. Nevertheless when a trigger message is queued for delivery the trigger message may no longer be necessary or the trigger message itself may become redundant or irrelevant. For example a stored trigger message that requests the UE to send smart meter billing data for 10 minutes may later be ineffective because 20 minutes of smart meter billing data may now be requested. A stored trigger message that requests the UE to establish a user plane communication link may become obsolete if the trigger message is queued for too long. Also the SCS may lose the context for the device message while the trigger message is queued. Further if unnecessary trigger messages are delivered then network resources are wasted and the network becomes inefficient. It is with respect to these and other challenges that the examples described herein are needed.

In some first examples techniques are implemented for a device trigger recall procedure. The techniques may include receiving at a machine type communication interworking function MTC IWF capable of operating in compliance with one or more 3GPP LTE standards including LTE A a Device Action Request DAR command from an SCS through a Tsp interface. The DAR command may include a Device Action attribute value pair AVP having an UE identifier to indicate an UE e.g. an M2M UE to receive a trigger message initiated by the SCS an SCS Identifier for the SCS a Reference Number AVP set to identify the trigger message and an Action Type AVP set to a value to indicate a device trigger recall request to recall the trigger message. The techniques may also include determining a status of the device trigger recall request responsive to one of an initiation of a recall procedure with a short message service service center SMS SC or a rejection of the initiation of the recall procedure by the MTC IWF. The techniques may also include sending a Device Action Answer DAA command to the SCS through the Tsp interface. The DAA command may include a Device Notification AVP having the UE identifier the SCS Identifier the Reference Number AVP the Action Type AVP and a Request Status AVP set to a value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger recall request.

In some second examples techniques are implemented for a device trigger replace procedure. The techniques may include receiving at an MTC IWF capable of operating in compliance with one or more 3GPP standards including LTE or LTE A a DAR command from an SCS through a Tsp interface. The DAR command may include a Device Action AVP having an UE identifier to indicate an UE to receive a first trigger message initiated by the SCS an SCS Identifier for the SCS an Action Type AVP set to a value to indicate a device trigger replace request to replace the first trigger message with a second trigger message a Reference Number AVP set to identify the second trigger message and an Old Reference Number AVP set to identify the first trigger message intended to be replaced . The techniques may also include forwarding the device trigger replace request to an SMS SC and determining a status of the device trigger replace request responsive to an indication from the SMS SC of a success or failure to replace the first trigger message with the second trigger message. The techniques may also include sending a DAA command to the SCS through the Tsp interface. The DAA command may include a Device Notification AVP having the UE identifier the SCS Identifier the Reference Number AVP the Old Reference Number AVP the Action Type AVP and a Request Status AVP set to a value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger replace request.

In some examples MSC may act like a switching node within a PSTN or ISDN and may also provide additional functionality to enable support of a mobile user or UE such as UE . The additional functionality may include registration authentication call location inter MSC handovers and call routing to the mobile subscriber or UE.

According to some examples MME may be arranged as a control node and may be responsible for idle mode UE tracking and paging procedures including retransmissions. MME may be involved in bearer activation deactivation processes and may also be responsible for choosing S GW for UE upon initial attach and at time of intra LTE handover involving Core Network CN node relocation.

In some examples SGSN may be responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to UEs within its geographical service area. For these examples SGSN handles packet routing and transfer mobility management attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. S GW may route and forward user data packets while also acting as a mobility anchor for a user plane during inter eNodeB eNB handovers and as an anchor for mobility between LTE and other 3GPP technologies.

According to some examples as shown in S GW may be coupled to a gateway GPRS support node packet gateway GGSN PGW . For these examples GGSN may manage internetworking between a GPRS network and external packet switched networks like the Internet or X.25 networks. GGSN may also enable mobility of a user terminal in GPRS UMTS networks and may maintain routing to tunnel protocol data units PDUs for servicing a particular UE such as UE . PGW may provide connectivity from UE to external packet data networks by being a point of exit and entry of traffic for UE . P GW may perform policy enforcement packet filtering for a UE such as UE charging support lawful interception and packet screening. PGW may also act as an anchor for mobility between 3GPP and non 3GPP technologies such as WiMAX and 3GPP2.

In some examples as shown in MSC MME and the SGSN may be coupled to an MTC IWF . For these examples MTC IWF may interface with other 3GPP entities for providing various MTC services. For example MTC IFW may support device trigger functionality over Tsp and T4 reference points and may generate charging data records CDRs for supported device triggers. While examples are described herein using device or trigger messages other types of messaging may also be used according to other examples e.g. small data transmissions etc.

According to some examples as shown in MTC IWF may be coupled to a charging data function charging gateway function CDF CGF a 3GPP home subscriber server HSS and a short message service service center gateway mobile switching center interworking mobile switching center SMS SC GMSC IWMSC . For these examples charging function addresses may be addresses distributed to IP multimedia subsystem IMS entities and provide a common location for an entity to send charging information. CDF addresses are used for offline billing and Online Charging Function OCF for online billing. CDF may collect accounting information and build a Call Detail Record CDR which is sent to the billing system BS of the domain. CGF may listen to messages providing charging data that may be sent from GPRS support nodes GSNs . CGF may retrieve CDRs from the GSNs. HSS may maintain a master database for a given user. The HSS may be the entity maintaining subscription related information to support those network entities actually handling calls sessions.

In some examples as shown in SMS SC GMSC IWMSC include SMS SC SMS GMSC and SMS IWMSC. SMS SC may act as a store and forward center for SMS messages. SMS GMSC and SMS IWMSC may connect SMS SC to the GPRS network. SMS GMSC and SMS IWMSC may be connected to the SGSN through connection to enable GPRS UEs such as UE to send and receive SMS messages through for example SGSN . SMS IWMSC may receive SMS messages from a public land mobile network PLMN and submit these SMS messages to a receiving SMS SC such as SMS SC . According to some examples as shown in SMS SC GMSC IWMSC may also be coupled to MSC via connection and to MME via connection . SMS SC GMSC IWMSC may be further coupled to an Internet Protocol Short Message Gateway IP SM GW and short message entities SME . IP SM GW may provide the protocol interworking for submission of short messages. SME may include network entities e.g. mobile stations cell phones UEs that can send receive short messages.

According to some examples MTC IWF may be further coupled to a services capability server SCS . For these examples SCS may connect MTC application servers such as application server AS to the 3GPP network to enable these application servers to communicate through specific 3GPP defined services with UE and with MTC IWF . SCS may offer capabilities for use by one or multiple application servers such as AS . Other types of application servers such as AS may couple to GGSN PGW . Thus as shown in AS may connect directly to the 3GPP network in order to perform direct user plane communications with UE without use of SCS . However SCS may provide value added services for MTC and perform user plane and or control plane communication with UE .

In some examples a Tsp interface such as Tsp interface may function as an inter domain interface for control plane communication. For these examples Tsp interface may be used for SCS to deliver a device trigger request included in a trigger message to MTC IWF and thus may allow MTC IWF to receive device trigger requests from SCS . As described more below MTC IWF may include logic and or features capable of reporting acceptance success or non acceptance failure of the device trigger request. In some example a Tsp interface such as Tsp interface may be implemented as set of APIs Application Programming Interface .

According to some examples Tsms interface may be used to send a trigger message to an MTC UE such as UE . The trigger message may be encapsulated in a Mobile Terminating SMS MT SMS as an over the top application by any network entity e.g. SCS acting as an SME. The T4 interface may be used to transfer the trigger message from MTC IWF to SMS SC provides serving node s information corresponding to an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI and reports the success or failure of delivering the trigger message to UE . S6m interface may map mobile subscriber integrated services digital network number MSISDN or external identifier external Id assigned to or associated with UE to IMSI. The map to MSISDN or external Id may resolve serving node identities of UE .

According to some examples as shown in T5a T5b and T5c reference points may connect MTC IWF to serving SGSN MTC IWF to serving MME or MTC IWF to serving MSC respectively. T5a T5b and T5c reference points may also support device trigger functionality including transfer of a device trigger request included in a trigger message to MSC MME or SGSN reporting to MTC IWF the success or failure of delivering the trigger message to UE or providing MME SGSN congestion load information to MTC IWF . Gi SGi interface may provide an interface into packet data networks PDNs . SGi may be an interface to an IP PDN and Gi may be an interface to an external PDN e.g. Internet and may contain end user s IP point of presence. Rf Ga interface may provide an interface between MTC IWF and CDF CGF . In some examples Rf interface may provide access to CTF of the CDF CGF and Ga interface may provide access to CGF of CDF CGF .

In some examples end to end services between the MTC Applications at UE e.g. MTC UE Application and MTC or M2M applications provided at AS in an external network may use services provided by a 3GPP system and optionally services provided by SCS . For these examples the 3GPP system may provide transport and communication services including 3GPP bearer services e.g. IMS and SMS and various optimizations that can facilitate MTC or M2M types of services. As mentioned above SCS may couple AS to the 3GPP network to enable AS to communicate through specific 3GPP defined services with UE and with MTC IWF . For example as described more below MTC IWF may be arranged to support reception of a Device Action Request DAR command from SCS that may be associated with a trigger message or request destined for UE . MTC IWF may report to SCS acceptance or non acceptance of the request reporting to SCS success or failure of the request if known and may provide load control information to SCS as part of the response to the DAR command via a Device Action Answer DAA command.

According to some examples MTC IWF may transmit or forward an SMS request in terms of relaying a trigger message to eventually cause MTC device triggering at UE . For example MTC device triggering may start from an MTC application at AS . The MTC application at AS may communicate with SCS to initiate the MTC device triggering. SCS may then transmit a DAR command that may include a request for device triggering to MTC IWF via the Tsp interface . MTC IWF may then send a DAA command to SCS that may include information to indicate a status of the request included in the DAR command.

In some examples a DAR command may be used between MTC IWF and SCS to support a device action request procedure. For these examples the DAR command may be sent by SCS to MTC IWF and may indicate a request for an action that may include a device trigger recall replace request to recall replace a first old trigger message for MTC device triggering that may have been previously sent to UE . Responsive to the DAR command MTC IWF may initiate a procedure to recall replace the first old trigger message with SMS SC through T4 reference point. According to some examples SMS SC may send MTC IWF a response message that may indicate if the first old trigger message to be recalled replaced is pending at the SMS SC or has been delivered to UE with failure. SMS SC may send to MTC IWF an indication that the first old trigger message has been successfully replaced with a second new trigger message or recalled deleted . SMS SC may also send MTC IWF a report that indicates the first old trigger message has been replaced recalled. MTC IWF may then send a DAA command to SCS to indicate the status of the recall replace request indicated in the previously received DAR command.

According to some examples a similar message format for a DAR command and subsequent DAA command may be used for various types of device trigger requests to include device recall trigger replace requests. For these examples Device Action and Device Notification Attribute Value Pairs AVPs may have values set to provide information relevant to the DAR DAA commands and may further have Action Type AVPs to indicate a particular device trigger request e.g. these AVPs may vary slightly between device trigger recall and device trigger replace requests . Data delivered between MTC IWF and SCS may be provided in the form of AVPs having set values associated with a payload for the data.

In some examples rather than having a general device trigger request DAR command including a Device Action AVP that further has an Action Type AVP to indicate a particular device trigger request. A Device Action Recall Request DARR command may be used for a device trigger recall request by SCS to MTC IWF and an associated Device Action Recall Answer DARA command may be used for indicating a status of the device trigger recall request to SCS . Also a Device Action Replace Request DARpR command may be used for a device trigger replace request by SCS to MTC IWF and an associated Device Action Replace Answer DARpA command may be used for indicating a status of the device trigger replace request to SCS .

According to some examples a protocol may be used with the various commands mentioned above that may include but is not limited to the Diameter Base Protocol as specified in Request for Comments RFC 3588 published in September 2003 by the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF . Hereinafter referred to as RFC 3588. Table I shows a list of the various commands mentioned above to include an assigned Diameter Header code value. For the examples shown in Table I Diameter Header code values for DAR and DAA commands may be as specified in a 3GPP publication entitled Technical Specification Group Core Network and Terminals Tsp interface protocol between the MTC Interworking Function MTC IWF and Service Capability Server SCS Release 12.1.0 published in June of 2014 and or previous or subsequent releases or versions hereinafter referred to as 3GPP TS 29.360 . Diameter Header codes for DARR DARA DARpR and DARpA may be example enhancements of alternative implementations to 3GPP TS 29.368 and may be assigned similar codes as shown below in Table I.

In some examples Table II shows a list of various AVPs that may be included in the commands listed in Table I. At least a portion the AVPs shown in Table II may be Tsp specific Diameter AVPs as specified in 3GPP TS 29.368V12.1.0. The bolded italicized AVPs shown in Table II may be used with the DARR DARA DARpR and DARpA commands shown in Table I and thus may be example enhancement to 3GPP TS 29.368.

In some examples a Device Action AVP as shown in Table I may be used by SCS to request a specific action for a device such as UE . A Device Notification AVP may be used by MTC IWF to report an action requested by SCS . An Action Type AVP may inform MTC IWF of what action type is to be used in the request and may also inform SCS of what action type is reported. A Request Status AVP may inform SCS of the status of a device trigger recall replace request indicated in DAR DARA or DARpA command previously sent by SCS to MTC IWF . The Request Status AVP may be included in a DAA command sent by MTC IWF to SCS .

In some examples as shown in in order to request an MTC IWF e.g. MTC IWF to perform a device trigger recall an SCS e.g. SCS may send a Device Action Request command with the following described AVP values within the Device Action AVP. Device Action AVP may have an Action Type AVP that may be set to a value to indicate a device trigger recall request to recall the old trigger message. As shown in Action Type AVP is set to a value of 3 . Device Action AVP may have UE identifier information in either External Id AVP A or MSISDN AVP B that may indicate an UE to receive a trigger message initiated by the SCS that generated command . Device Action AVP may also have an SCS identifier in SCS Identifier AVP including an identity of the SCS that generated command . Device Action AVP may also have a Reference Number AVP including the assigned reference number the SCS has assigned to the trigger message to be recalled.

In some examples as shown in after the MTC IWF has received from the SCS a Device Action Request command with device action set to Device Trigger Recall 3 after receiving the Device Trigger Answer from an SMS SC e.g. SMS SC the MTC IWF may confirm the status of a device trigger recall request to the SCS by sending a DAA command and include the following described AVP values within the Device Notification AVP. Device Notification AVP may have the same UE identifier information that was included in command . Device Notification AVP may also have the same SCS identifier information. Device Notification AVP may have an Action Type AVP that may be set to a value of 3 to indicate a device trigger recall request. Device Notification AVP may also have a Reference Number AVP including the reference number of the recalled trigger message initiated by the SCS with the device trigger recall request included in command . Device Notification AVP may have a Request Status AVP that may be set to a value to indicate status of the device trigger recall request. As shown in Request Status AVP may be set to a value of 0 for SUCCESS to indicate success or 111 for RECALLFAIL to indicate that the device trigger recall request has failed for other reasons than ORIGINALMESSAGESENT or 112 for ORIGINALMESSAGESENT to indicates that the message which was intended to be recalled has already been sent.

In some examples as shown in in order to request the MTC IWF to perform a device trigger replace the SCS sends a DAR command with the following described AVP values within the Device Action AVP. Device Action AVP may have an Action Type AVP that may be set to a value to indicate a device trigger replace request. As shown in Action Type AVP is set to a value of 4 . Device Action AVP may have UE identifier information in either External Id AVP A or MSISDN AVP B that may indicate an UE to receive a trigger message initiated by the SCS that generated command . Device Action AVP may also have an SCS identifier in SCS Identifier AVP containing the identity of for the SCS that generated command . Device Action AVP may also have a Reference Number AVP containing a newly assigned reference number the SCS has assigned to the specific action request. Device Action AVP may also have an Old Reference Number AVP containing the assigned reference number by the SCS for the trigger message to be replaced.

According to some examples Device Action AVP may also have a Trigger Data AVP that includes a Payload AVP that may have a data payload to be sent to the UE with the replacement new trigger message. Trigger Data AVP may also have a Priority Indication AVP that may include a priority indication for the replacement new trigger message. Trigger Data AVP may also include an Application Port Identifier AVP to identify a triggering application at the UE to receive the replacement new trigger message. The triggering application may be identified by an Application Port.

In some examples Device Action AVP as shown in may also have a Validity Time that may indicate a time for which the device trigger replace request is valid. For these examples the time may include but is not limited to a time in seconds.

In some examples as shown in after the MTC IWF has received from the SCS a DAR command with device action set to Device Trigger Replace 4 after receiving the Device Trigger Answer from SMS SC the MTC IWF confirms the status of a Device Trigger Replace Request to the SCS by sending a DAA command and may include the following AVP values within the Device Notification AVP. Device Notification AVP may have an Action Type AVP that may be set to a value of 4 to indicate a device trigger replace request. Device Notification AVP may have the same UE identifier information that was included in command . Device Notification AVP may also have the same SCS identifier information. Device Notification AVP may also have a Reference Number AVP to identify the replacement new trigger message initiated by SCS with the device trigger replace request included in command for replacing the first trigger message. Device Notification AVP may also have an Old Reference Number AVP containing the reference number previously received from the SCS for the trigger message to be replaced. Device Notification AVP may have a Request Status AVP that may be set to a value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger replace request. As shown in Request Status AVP may be set to a value of 0 for SUCCESS to indicate success or 110 for REPLACEFAIL to indicate that the device trigger replace request has failed to replace the device trigger indicated by the Old Reference Number in the SMS SC for other reasons than ORIGINALMESSAGESENT i.e. message could not be replaced and new message could not be stored as a new message or 112 for ORIGINALMESSAGESENT to indicates that the message which was intended to be replaced has already been sent.

In some examples as shown in Device Action Recall AVP may have UE identifier information in either External Id AVP A or MSISDN AVP B that may indicate an UE to receive a trigger message initiated by the SCS that generated command . Device Action Recall AVP may also have an SCS identifier in SCS Identifier AVP for the SCS that generated command . Device Action Recall AVP may also have a Reference Number AVP that may be set to identify the trigger message initiated by this SCS.

In some examples as shown in Device Notification AVP may have the same UE identifier information that was included in command . Device Notification AVP may also have the same SCS identifier information. Device Notification AVP may also have a Reference Number AVP to identify the trigger message initiated by the SCS with the device trigger recall request included in command . Device Notification AVP may also have an Action Type AVP that may be set to a value of 3 to indicate a device trigger recall request and a Request Status AVP that may be set to a value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger recall request. As shown in Request Status AVP may be set to a value of 0 for SUCCESS to indicate success or 111 for RECALLFAIL to indicate that the device trigger recall request has failed for other reasons than ORIGINALMESSAGESENT or 112 for ORIGINALMESSAGESENT to indicates that the message which was intended to be recalled has already been sent.

In some examples as shown in Device Action Replace AVP may have UE identifier information in either External Id AVP A or MSISDN AVP B that may indicate an UE to receive a trigger message initiated by the SCS that generated command . Device Action Replace AVP may also have an SCS identifier in SCS Identifier AVP for the SCS that generated command . Device Action Replace AVP may also have an Old Reference Number AVP that may be set to identify a first trigger message initiated by this SCS that is to be replaced with a second trigger message. Reference Number AVP that may be set to identify the first trigger message. Device Action Replace AVP may also have an Action Type AVP that may be set to a value to indicate a device trigger replace request. As shown in Action Type AVP is set to a value of 4 .

According to some examples Device Action Replace AVP may also have a Trigger Data AVP that includes a Payload AVP that may have a data payload to be sent to the UE with the second trigger message. Trigger Data AVP may also have a Priority Indication AVP that may include a priority indication for the second trigger message. Trigger Data AVP may also include an Application Port Identifier AVP to identify a triggering application at the UE to receive the second trigger message. The triggering application may be identified by an Application Port.

In some examples Device Action AVP as shown in may also have a Validity Time that may indicate a time for which the device trigger replace request is valid. For these examples the time may include but is not limited to a time in seconds.

In some examples as shown in Device Notification AVP may have the same UE identifier information that was included in command . Device Notification AVP may also have the same SCS identifier information. Device Notification AVP may also have a Reference Number AVP to identify the second trigger message initiated by the SCS with the device trigger replace request included in command for replacing the first trigger message. Device Notification AVP may also have an Action Type AVP that may be set to a value of 4 to indicate a device trigger replace request and a Request Status AVP that may be set to a value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger replace request. As shown in Request Status AVP may be set to a value of 0 for SUCCESS to indicate success or 110 to for REPLACEFAIL to indicate that the device trigger replace request has failed to replace the device trigger indicated by the Old Reference Number in the SMS SC for other reason than ORIGINALMESSAGESENT e.g. message could not be replaced and new message could not be stored as a new message or 112 for ORIGINALMESSAGESENT to indicate that the message which was intended to be replaced was already been sent.

In response to receiving the DAR at the MTC IWF determines whether a delivery report has been received regarding the trigger associated with the received DAR. If a delivery report has been received this implies that previously submitted trigger has already been processed therefore the MTC IWF at may send a Device Action Answer DAA with specific cause value to the SCS to inform the SCS that the trigger recall replacement failed. If a delivery report has not been received the MTC IWF at determines the disposition of trigger and determines if the T4 or T5 interface was used for old device trigger delivery. In case of T5 device trigger at if the trigger is sent to the MME the MTC IWF at sends a message to the MME to recall replace the trigger. The MME determines at whether the trigger has been transferred to the UE. If yes the MTC IWF at obtains a delivery report from the MME indicating the trigger has already been sent to the UE and the MTC IWF sends the SCS a Device Action Answer DAA with specific cause value to inform the SCS that the recall replacement failed.

If the MME determines at that the trigger has been stored at MME and has not been transferred to the UE yet e.g. the UE was not reachable or in Idle mode the MME at deletes the old device trigger and sends a delivery report to the MTC IWF indicating deletion of the old device trigger and the MTC IWF sends a DAA with specific cause value AVP to the SCS to inform the SCS of the successful deletion of the old device trigger and if the DAR was a recall request a new device trigger request is added. If the DAR was a replace request at the SCS may then send a new device trigger request to the MTC IWF wherein the processing of the trigger continues.

If the MTC IWF determines at that the trigger is still buffered at the MTC IWF the MTC IWF at deletes the trigger and sends a DAA to the SCS informing the SCS of the deletion. The SCS at may then send a new device trigger to the MTC IWF wherein the processing of the trigger continues.

In case of T4 device trigger at if the MTC IWF determines that the trigger has been sent to the SMS SC the MTC IWF at sends a Submit Trigger Recall External Identifier or MSISDN IMSI SCS Identifier old device trigger reference number message to the SMS SC. Based on the External Identifier or MSISDN SCS Identifier and old device trigger reference number in the received Submit Trigger Recall Request the SMS SC at identifies which trigger message is to be recalled and checks if the identified trigger message has been sent to the UE or is pending at SMS SC.

If the trigger message is pending at SMS SC or if the trigger message has been sent to the UE but this message delivery fails the SMS SC at deletes the stored trigger message and requests the HSS to remove the SMS SC address from the Message Waiting List sends a Submit Trigger Recall Response message to the MTC IWF to inform that the previously submitted trigger message has been successfully deleted in the SMS SC and sends a Trigger Delivery Report for the original trigger message indicating that this message has been recalled and if DAR was a replace request the identified new device trigger is added. The SCS at may then send a new device trigger to the MTC IWF wherein the processing of the trigger continues.

If the trigger message has been sent to the UE and this message delivery succeeds or if the original trigger message has already expired at the SMS SC at sends a Submit Trigger Recall Response message to the MTC IWF with a cause value AVP indicating that the replace request failed. For example due to the successful delivery of the previously submitted trigger message or its expiration failed e.g. due to the successful delivery of the previously submitted trigger message or its expiration .

Beginning at process . Device Action Request logic and or features at SCS may be capable of sending a Device Action Request DAR to MTC IWF. In some examples the DAR may be in the example format of command . The DAR may be sent over Tsp interface from SCS and includes a Device Action AVP having an UE identifier to indicate that UE is to receive a trigger message that was previously initiated by SCS e.g. the message to be recalled an SCS Identifier for SCS a Reference Number AVP set to identify the trigger message to be recalled and an Action Type that indicates a device trigger recall request e.g. a value of 3 .

Moving to process . T4 recall success logic and or features at MTC IWF may be arranged to select T4 for the trigger recall and may perform a recall procedure with SMS SC and determines an outcome of the trigger recall is a successful recall of the trigger message.

Moving to process . Device Action Answer logic and or features at MTC IWF may be capable of sending a Device Action Answer DAA to SCS . In some examples the DAA may be in the example format of command . The DAA may be sent over Tsp interface and includes a Device Notification AVP having the UE identifier for UE the SCS Identifier for SCS the Reference Number AVP for the recalled trigger message the Action Type AVP that indicates device trigger recall and a Request Status AVP set to a value to indicate SUCCESS of the trigger recall. Process may then come to an end.

Beginning at process . Device Action Request logic and or features at SCS may be capable of sending a Device Action Request DAR to MTC IWF. In some examples the DAR may be in the example format of command . The DAR may be sent over Tsp interface from SCS and includes a Device Action AVP having an UE identifier to indicate that UE is to receive a trigger message that was previously initiated by SCS e.g. the message to be recalled an SCS Identifier for SCS a Reference Number AVP set to identify the trigger message to be recalled and an Action Type that indicates a device trigger recall request e.g. a value of 3 .

Moving to process . T4 recall failure logic and or features at MTC IWF may be arranged to select T4 for the trigger recall and may perform a recall procedure with SMS SC and determines an outcome of the trigger recall is an unsuccessful recall of the trigger message. Alternatively MTC IWF may just reject the device trigger recall request.

Moving to process . Delivery of old trigger SMS SC may deliver the trigger message to UE that was attempted to be recalled by SCS .

Moving to process . Device Action Answer logic and or features at MTC IWF may be capable of sending a Device Action Answer DAA to SCS . In some examples the DAA may be in the example format of command . The DAA may be sent over Tsp interface and includes a Device Notification AVP having the UE identifier for UE the SCS Identifier for SCS the Reference Number AVP for the recalled trigger message the Action Type AVP that indicates device trigger recall and a Request Status AVP set to a value to indicate failure of the trigger recall.

Moving to process . Delivery report for old trigger SMS SC may report a delivery outcome for the old trigger message to MTC IWF that may indicate the old trigger message was either successfully or unsuccessfully delivered. Process may then come to an end.

Beginning at process . Device Action Request logic and or features at SCS may be capable of sending a Device Action Request DAR to MTC IWF. In some examples the DAR may be in the example format of command . The DAR may be sent over Tsp interface from SCS and includes a Device Action AVP having an UE identifier to indicate that UE is to receive a first trigger message that was previously initiated by SCS e.g. the message to be replaced an SCS Identifier for SCS an Action Type that indicates a device trigger replace request e.g. a value of 4 a Reference Number AVP set to identify a second trigger message and an Old Reference Number AVP set to identify the first trigger message.

Moving to process . T4 replace success logic and or features at MTC IWF may be arranged to select T4 for replacement of the first trigger message with the second trigger message and may perform a replace procedure with SMS SC . MTC IWF may determine that an outcome of the replacement is a successful replacement of the first trigger message with the second trigger message.

Moving to process . Delivery of new trigger SMS SC may deliver the second new trigger message to UE .

Moving to process . Device Action Answer logic and or features at MTC IWF may be capable of sending a Device Action Answer DAA to SCS . In some examples the DAA may be in the example format of command . The DAA may be sent over Tsp interface to SCS and includes a Device Notification AVP having the UE identifier for UE the SCS Identifier for SCS the Reference Number AVP for the replaced first trigger message the Action Type AVP that indicates device trigger replace and a Request Status AVP set to a value to indicate SUCCESS of the device trigger replace request.

Moving to process . Delivery report for new trigger SMS SC may report a delivery outcome for the old trigger message to MTC IWF that may indicate the new second trigger message was successfully delivered. Process may then come to an end.

Beginning at process . Device Action Request logic and or features at SCS may be capable of sending a Device Action Request DAR to MTC IWF. In some examples the DAR may be in the example format of command . The DAR may be sent over Tsp interface from SCS and includes a Device Action AVP having an UE identifier to indicate that UE is to receive a first trigger message that was previously initiated by SCS e.g. the message to be replaced an SCS Identifier for SCS an Action Type that indicates a device trigger replace request e.g. a value of 4 a Reference Number AVP set to identify a second trigger message and an Old Reference Number AVP set to identify the first trigger message.

Moving to process . T4 replace failure logic and or features at MTC IWF may be arranged to select T4 for the trigger recall and may perform a recall procedure with SMS SC and determines an outcome of the trigger replace is an unsuccessful replace of the first old trigger message with the second new trigger message. Alternatively MTC IWF may just reject the device trigger replace request.

Moving to process . Device Action Answer logic and or features at MTC IWF may be capable of sending a Device Action Answer DAA to SCS . In some examples the DAA may be in the example format of command . The DAA may be sent over Tsp interface to SCS and includes a Device Notification AVP having the UE identifier for UE the SCS Identifier for SCS the Reference Number AVP for the replaced first trigger message the Action Type AVP that indicates device trigger replace and a Request Status AVP set to a value to indicate failure of the device trigger replace request.

Moving to process . Delivery of new trigger the new second trigger message may still be delivered to UE if SMS SC indicates that the failure was due to the old first trigger message already being sent delivered to UE .

Moving to process . Delivery report for new trigger SMS SC may report a delivery outcome for the new first trigger message to MTC IWF that may indicate the new second trigger message was either successfully or unsuccessfully delivered. Process may then come to an end.

The apparatus may comprise a computer implemented apparatus having a processor circuit arranged to execute one or more software components . It is worthy to note that a and b and c and similar designators as used herein are intended to be variables representing any positive integer. Thus for example if an implementation sets a value for a 3 then a complete set of software components may include components or . The examples are not limited in this context.

According to some examples apparatus may be implemented in network equipment such as an MTC IWF e.g. MTC IWF capable of operating in compliance with one or more 3GPP LTE Specifications including LTE A. The examples are not limited in this context.

In some examples as shown in apparatus includes processor circuit . Processor circuit may be generally arranged to execute one or more software components . The processing circuit can be any of various commercially available processors including without limitation an AMDC Athlon Duron and Opteron processors ARM application embedded and secure processors Qualcomm Snapdragon IBM and Motorola DragonBall and PowerPC processors IBM and Sony Cell processors Intel Celeron Core 2 Duo Core i3 Core i5 Core i7 Itanium Pentium Xeon Atom and XScale processors and similar processors. Dual microprocessors multi core processors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as processing circuit . According to some examples processor circuit may also be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC and at least some components may be implemented as hardware elements of the ASIC.

According to some examples apparatus may include a receive component . Receive component may be executed by processor circuit to receive a DAR command e.g. included in DAR command from an SCS through a Tsp interface. The DAR command may include a Device Action AVP having an UE identifier to indicate an UE to receive a trigger message initiated by the SCS and an SCS Identifier for the SCS. The Device Action AVP may also have a Reference Number AVP set to identify the trigger message and an Action Type AVP set to a value to indicate a device trigger recall request to recall the trigger message. For these examples receive component may be capable of maintaining and or accessing AVP value information in a memory structure e.g. a lookup table LUT to determine what values to set at least the Device Action and the Action Type AVPs.

In some examples apparatus may also include a status component . Status component may be executed by processor circuit to determine a status of the device trigger recall request included in the DAR. Status component may determine the status responsive to one of initiation of a recall procedure with an SMS SC or a rejection of the initiation of the recall procedure by the MTC IWF that includes apparatus . The initiation of the recall procedure may be included in initiate message . Also an indication of success or failure of the recall may be indicated by the SMS SC in success or fail message . Success or fail message may be used by status component to determine the status.

In some examples apparatus may also include an answer component . Answer component may be executed by processor circuit to send a DAA command e.g. included in DAA command to the SCS through the Tsp interface. For these examples the DAA command may include a Device Notification AVP having the UE and SCS identifiers received in the DAR. The Device Notification AVP may also have the Reference Number AVP for the trigger message that was or was not to be recalled the Action Type AVP that indicated the device trigger recall request and a Request Status AVP set to a value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger recall request. Answer component may have access to AVP value information to determine what values to set at least the Device Notification the Action Type and the Request Status AVPs.

Various components of apparatus and a device implementing apparatus may be communicatively coupled to each other by various types of communications media to coordinate operations. The coordination may involve the uni directional or bi directional exchange of information. For instance the components may communicate information in the form of signals communicated over the communications media. The information can be implemented as signals allocated to various signal lines. In such allocations each message is a signal. Further embodiments however may alternatively employ data messages. Such data messages may be sent across various connections. Example connections include parallel interfaces serial interfaces and bus interfaces.

Included herein is a set of logic flows representative of example methodologies for performing novel aspects of the disclosed architecture. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the one or more methodologies shown herein are shown and described as a series of acts those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts. Some acts may in accordance therewith occur in a different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all acts illustrated in a methodology may be required for a novel implementation.

A logic flow may be implemented in software firmware and or hardware. In software and firmware embodiments a logic flow may be implemented by computer executable instructions stored on at least one non transitory computer readable medium or machine readable medium such as an optical magnetic or semiconductor storage. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In the illustrated example shown in logic flow at block may receive at an MTC IWF capable of operating in compliance with one or more 3GPP LTE standards including LTE A a DAR command from an SCS through a Tsp interface the DAR command including a Device Action AVP having an UE identifier to indicate an UE to receive a trigger message initiated by the SCS an SCS Identifier for the SCS a Reference Number AVP set to identify the trigger message and an Action Type AVP set to a value to indicate a device trigger recall request to recall the trigger message. In some examples receive component may receive the DAR command.

According to some examples logic flow at block may determine a status of the device trigger recall request responsive to one of an initiation of a recall procedure with an SMS SC or a rejection of the initiation of the recall procedure by the MTC IWF. For these examples status component may determine the status of the device trigger recall request.

In some examples logic flow at block may send a DAA command to the SCS through the Tsp interface the DAA command including a Device Notification AVP having the UE identifier the SCS Identifier the Reference Number AVP the Action Type AVP and a Request Status AVP set to a value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger recall request. For these examples answer component may send the DAA command.

The apparatus may comprise a computer implemented apparatus having a processor circuit arranged to execute one or more software components . It is worthy to note that a and b and c and similar designators as used herein are intended to be variables representing any positive integer. Thus for example if an implementation sets a value for a 3 then a complete set of software components may include components or . The examples are not limited in this context.

According to some examples apparatus may be implemented in network equipment such as an SCS e.g. SCS capable of operating in compliance with one or more 3GPP LTE Specifications including LTE A in order to couple to an MTC IWF e.g. MTC IWF . The examples are not limited in this context.

In some examples as shown in apparatus includes processor circuit . Processor circuit may be generally arranged to execute one or more software components . The processing circuit can be any of various commercially available processors to include but not limited to the processors mentioned above for apparatus . Also according to some examples processor circuit may also be an ASIC and at least some components may be implemented as hardware elements of the ASIC.

According to some examples apparatus may be implemented by a first UE and may include an action component . Action component may be executed by processor circuit to send a DAR command e.g. included in DAR command to an TC IWF through a Tsp interface. The DAR command may include a Device Action AVP having an UE identifier to indicate an UE to receive a first trigger message initiated by the SCS and an SCS Identifier for the SCS. The Device Action AVP may also have an Action Type AVP set to a value to indicate a device trigger replace request to replace the first trigger message with a second trigger message. The Device Action AVP may also have a Reference Number AVP set to identify the second trigger message and an Old Reference Number to identify the first trigger message. For these examples action component may be capable of maintaining and or accessing AVP value information in a memory structure e.g. a LUT to determine what values to set at least the Device Action and the Action Type AVPs.

In some examples apparatus may also include a receive component . Receive component may be executed by processor circuit to receive a DAA command e.g. included in DAA command from the MTC IWF through the Tsp interface. For these examples the DAA command may include a Device Notification AVP having the UE identifier SCS Identifier the Reference Number AVP the Action Type AVP and a Request Status AVP set to a value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger replace request.

In some examples apparatus may also include a status component . Status component may be executed by processor circuit to determine the status of the device trigger replace request based on the value set in the Request Status AVP. For these examples status component may have access to AVP value information to determine what the values set in the Request Status AVP indicate in terms of a successful replace or an unsuccessful replace of the first trigger message with the second trigger message.

Various components of apparatus and a device implementing apparatus may be communicatively coupled to each other by various types of communications media to coordinate operations. The coordination may involve the uni directional or bi directional exchange of information. For instance the components may communicate information in the form of signals communicated over the communications media. The information can be implemented as signals allocated to various signal lines. In such allocations each message is a signal. Further embodiments however may alternatively employ data messages. Such data messages may be sent across various connections. Example connections include parallel interfaces serial interfaces and bus interfaces.

In the illustrated example shown in logic flow at block may send from an SCS capable of operating in compliance with one or more or more 3GPP LTE standards including LTE A a DAR command to an MTC IWF through a Tsp interface the DAR command including a Device Action AVP having an UE identifier to indicate an UE to receive a first trigger message initiated by the SCS an SCS Identifier for the SCS an Action Type AVP set to a value to indicate a device trigger replace request to replace the first trigger message with a second trigger message a Reference Number AVP set to identify the second trigger message and an Old Reference Number AVP set to identify the first trigger message. In some examples action component may send the DAR command.

According to some examples logic flow at block may receive a Device Action Answer DAA command from the MTC IWF through the Tsp interface the DAA command including a Device Notification AVP having the UE identifier the SCS Identifier the Reference Number AVP the Old Reference Number AVP the Action Type AVP and a Request Status AVP set to a value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger replace request. For these examples receive component may receive the DAA command.

In some examples logic flow at block may determine the status of the device trigger replace request based on the value set in the Request Status AVP. For these examples status component may determine the status of the device trigger replace request.

The device may implement some or all of the structure and or operations for the apparatus storage medium and or logic circuit in a single computing entity such as entirely within a single device. Alternatively the device may distribute portions of the structure and or operations for apparatus storage medium and or logic circuit across multiple computing entities using a distributed system architecture such as a client server architecture a tier architecture an N tier architecture a tightly coupled or clustered architecture a peer to peer architecture a master slave architecture a shared database architecture and other types of distributed systems. The examples are not limited in this context.

In one embodiment radio interface may include a component or combination of components adapted for transmitting and or receiving single carrier or multi carrier modulated signals e.g. including complementary code keying CCK and or orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM symbols and or single carrier frequency division multiplexing SC FDM symbols although the embodiments are not limited to any specific over the air interface or modulation scheme. Radio interface may include for example a receiver a transmitter and or a frequency synthesizer . Radio interface may include bias controls a crystal oscillator and or one or more antennas . In another embodiment radio interface may use external voltage controlled oscillators VCOs surface acoustic wave filters intermediate frequency IF filters and or RF filters as desired. Due to the variety of potential RF interface designs an expansive description thereof is omitted.

Baseband circuitry may communicate with radio interface to process receive and or transmit signals and may include for example an analog to digital converter for down converting received signals a digital to analog converter for up converting signals for transmission. Further baseband circuitry may include a baseband or physical layer PHY processing circuit for PHY link layer processing of respective receive transmit signals. Baseband circuitry may include for example a processing circuit for medium access control MAC data link layer processing. Baseband circuitry may include a memory controller for communicating with MAC processing circuit and or a computing platform for example via one or more interfaces .

In some embodiments PHY processing circuit may include a frame construction and or detection module in combination with additional circuitry such as a buffer memory to construct and or deconstruct communication frames e.g. containing subframes . Alternatively or in addition MAC processing circuit may share processing for certain of these functions or perform these processes independent of PHY processing circuit . In some embodiments MAC and PHY processing may be integrated into a single circuit.

Computing platform may provide computing functionality for device . As shown computing platform may include a processing component . In addition to or alternatively of baseband circuitry of device may execute processing operations or logic for apparatus storage medium and logic circuit using the processing component . Processing component and or PHY and or MAC may comprise various hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include devices logic devices components processors microprocessors circuits processor circuits e.g. processor circuit or circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA memory units logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs software development programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an example is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given example.

Computing platform may further include other platform components . Other platform components include common computing elements such as one or more processors multi core processors co processors memory units chipsets controllers peripherals interfaces oscillators timing devices video cards audio cards multimedia input output I O components e.g. digital displays power supplies and so forth. Examples of memory units may include without limitation various types of computer readable and machine readable storage media in the form of one or more higher speed memory units such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory polymer memory such as ferroelectric polymer memory ovonic memory phase change or ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards an array of devices such as Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID drives solid state memory devices e.g. USB memory solid state drives SSD and any other type of storage media suitable for storing information.

Computing platform may further include a network interface . In some examples network interface may include logic and or features to support wireless network interfaces as described in one or more 3GPP LTE or LTE A specifications or standards. For these examples network interface may enable an apparatus or located at network equipment such as an MTC IWF or SC to communicate with other devices via network connections.

Device may be for example a computer a personal computer PC a desktop computer a laptop computer an ultrabook computer a smartphone a tablet computer a notebook computer a netbook computer a work station a mini computer multiprocessor system processor based system wireless access point or combination thereof. Accordingly functions and or specific configurations of device described herein may be included or omitted in various embodiments of device as suitably desired. In some embodiments device may be configured to be compatible with protocols and frequencies associated one or more of the 3GPP LTE Specifications and or IEEE 802.16 Standards for WMANs and or other broadband wireless networks cited herein although the examples are not limited in this respect.

Embodiments of device may be implemented using single input single output SISO architectures. However certain implementations may include multiple antennas e.g. antennas for transmission and or reception using adaptive antenna techniques for beamforming or spatial division multiple access SDMA and or using multiple input multiple output MIMO communication techniques.

The components and features of device may be implemented using any combination of discrete circuitry application specific integrated circuits ASICs logic gates and or single chip architectures. Further the features of device may be implemented using microcontrollers programmable logic arrays and or microprocessors or any combination of the foregoing where suitably appropriate. It is noted that hardware firmware and or software elements may be collectively or individually referred to herein as logic or circuit. 

It should be appreciated that the exemplary device shown in the block diagram of may represent one functionally descriptive example of many potential implementations. Accordingly division omission or inclusion of block functions depicted in the accompanying figures does not infer that the hardware components circuits software and or elements for implementing these functions would be necessarily be divided omitted or included in examples.

In the exemplary broadband wireless access system access service networks ASN are capable of coupling with base stations BS RRHs or eNBs respectively to provide wireless communication between one or more fixed devices and internet or one or more mobile devices and Internet . One example of a fixed device and a mobile device is UE with the fixed device comprising a stationary version of UE and the mobile device comprising a mobile version of UE . ASN may implement profiles that are capable of defining the mapping of network functions to one or more physical entities on broadband wireless access system . Base stations or eNBs may comprise radio equipment to provide RF communication with fixed device and mobile device such as described with reference to device and may comprise for example the PHY MAC RLC or PDCP layer equipment in compliance with a 3GPP LTE Specification or an IEEE 802.16 Standard. Base stations or eNBs may further comprise an IP backplane to couple to Internet via ASN respectively although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

Broadband wireless access system may further comprise a visited connectivity service network CSN capable of providing one or more network functions including but not limited to proxy and or relay type functions for example authentication authorization and accounting AAA functions dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP functions or domain name service controls or the like domain gateways such as public switched telephone network PSTN gateways or voice over internet protocol VoIP gateways and or internet protocol IP type server functions or the like. However these are merely example of the types of functions that are capable of being provided by visited CSN or home CSN and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects. Visited CSN may be referred to as a visited CSN in the case where visited CSN is not part of the regular service provider of fixed device or mobile device for example where fixed or mobile device is roaming away from their respective home CSN or where broadband wireless access system is part of the regular service provider of fixed device or mobile device but where broadband wireless access system may be in another location or state that is not the main or home location of fixed device or mobile device .

Fixed device may be located anywhere within range of one or both base stations such as in or near a home or business to provide home or business customer broadband access to Internet via base stations and ASN respectively and home CSN . It is worthy to note that although fixed device is generally disposed in a stationary location it may be moved to different locations as needed. Mobile device may be utilized at one or more locations if mobile device is within range of one or both base stations for example.

In accordance with one or more embodiments operation support system OSS may be part of broadband wireless access system to provide management functions for broadband wireless access system and to provide interfaces between functional entities of broadband wireless access system . Broadband wireless access system of is merely one type of wireless network showing a certain number of the components of broadband wireless access system and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

Some examples may be described using the expression in one example or an example along with their derivatives. These terms mean that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one example. The appearances of the phrase in one example in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same example.

Some examples may be described using the expression coupled connected or capable of being coupled along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example descriptions using the terms connected and or coupled may indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

An example apparatus for a processor circuit for an MTC IWF capable of operating in compliance with one or more 3GPP LTE standards including LTE A and may include a receive component. For this examples the receive component may be for execution by the processor circuit to receive a DAR command from an SCS through a Tsp interface. The DAR command may include a Device Action AVP having an UE identifier to indicate an UE to receive a trigger message initiated by the SCS an SCS Identifier for the SCS a Reference Number AVP set to identify the trigger message and an Action Type AVP set to a value to indicate a device trigger recall request to recall the trigger message. The apparatus may also include a status component for execution by the processor circuit to determine a status of the device trigger recall request responsive to one of an initiation of a recall procedure with an SMS SC or a rejection of the initiation of the recall procedure by the MTC IWF. The apparatus may also include an answer component for execution by the processor circuit to send a DAA command to the SCS through the Tsp interface. The DAA command may include a Device Notification AVP having the UE identifier the SCS Identifier the Reference Number AVP the Action Type AVP and a Request Status AVP set to a value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger recall request.

The apparatus of example 1 the Device Action AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3001 the Reference Number AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3007 the Action Type AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3005 the Device Notification AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3002 and the Request Status AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3008.

The apparatus of example 1 the value may indicate the device recall request comprises the value set to 3.

The apparatus of example 1 the value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger recall request may include the value set to 0 for indicating success or the value set to 111 to indicate trigger recall failure or value set to 112 to indicated original trigger message already sent.

The apparatus of example 1 may also include a digital display coupled to the processor circuit to present a user interface view.

An example method may include receiving at an MTC IWF capable of operating in compliance with one or more 3GPP LTE standards including LTE A a DAR command from an SCS through a Tsp interface. The DAR command may include a Device Action AVP having an UE identifier to indicate an UE to receive a trigger message initiated by the SCS an SCS Identifier for the SCS a Reference Number AVP set to identify the trigger message and an Action Type AVP set to a value to indicate a device trigger recall request to recall the trigger message. The method may also include determining a status of the device trigger recall request responsive to one of an initiation of a recall procedure with an SMS SC or a rejection of the initiation of the recall procedure by the MTC IWF. The method may also include sending a DAA command to the SCS through the Tsp interface. The DAA command may include a Device Notification AVP having the UE identifier the SCS Identifier the Reference Number AVP the Action Type AVP and a Request Status AVP set to a value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger recall request.

The method of example 7 the Device Action AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3001 the Reference Number AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3007 the Action Type AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3005 the Device Notification AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3002 and the Request Status AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3008.

The method of example 7 the value to indicate the device recall request may include the value set to 3.

The method of example 7 the value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger recall request may include the value set to 0 for indicating success or the value set to 111 to indicate trigger recall failure or value set to 112 to indicated original trigger message already sent.

At least one machine readable medium may include a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a system at an UE may cause the system to carry out a method according to any one of examples 7 to 11.

An example at least one machine readable medium may include a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a system for an SCS capable of operating in compliance with one or more or more 3GPP LTE standards including LTE A may causes the system to send a DAR command to a an MTC IWF through a Tsp interface. The DAR command may include a Device Action AVP having an UE identifier to indicate an UE to receive a trigger message initiated by the SCS an SCS Identifier for the SCS a Reference Number AVP set to identify the trigger message and an Action Type AVP set to a value to indicate a device trigger recall request to recall the trigger message. The instructions may also cause the system to receive a DAA command from the MTC IWF through the Tsp interface. The DAA command may include a Device Notification AVP having the UE identifier the SCS Identifier the Reference Number AVP the Action Type AVP and a Request Status AVP set to a value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger recall request. The instructions may also cause the system to determine the status of the device trigger replace request based on the value set in the request status AVP.

The at least one machine readable medium of example 14 the UE identifier may include one of an External Id or an MSISDN.

The at least one machine readable medium of example 14 the Device Action AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3001 the Reference Number AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3007 the Action Type AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3005 the Device Notification AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3002 and the Request Status AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3008.

The at least one machine readable medium of example 14 the value may indicate the device recall request comprises the value set to 3.

The at least one machine readable medium of example 14 the value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger recall request may include the value set to 0 for indicating success or the value set to 111 to indicate trigger recall failure or value set to 112 to indicated original trigger message already sent.

An example apparatus may include a processor circuit for an SCS capable of operating in compliance with one or more 3GPP LTE standards including LTE A. The apparatus may also include an action component for execution by the processor circuit to send a DAR command to an MTC IWF through a Tsp interface. The DAR command may include a Device Action AVP having an UE identifier to indicate an UE to receive a first trigger message initiated by the SCS an SCS Identifier for the SCS an Action Type AVP set to a value to indicate a device trigger replace request to replace the first trigger message with a second trigger message a Reference Number AVP set to identify the second trigger message and an Old Reference Number AVP set to identify the first trigger message. The apparatus may also include a receive component for execution by the processor circuit to receive a DAA command from the MTC IWF through the Tsp interface. The DAA command may include a Device Notification AVP having the UE identifier the SCS Identifier the Reference Number AVP the Action Type AVP and a Request Status AVP set to a value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger replace request. The apparatus may also include a status component for execution by the processor circuit to determine the status of the device trigger replace request based on the value set in the Request Status AVP.

The apparatus of example 19 the Device Action AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3001 the Reference Number AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3007 the Old Reference Number AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3011 the Action Type AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3005 the Device Notification AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3002 and the Request Status AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3008.

The apparatus of example 19 the Device Notification AVP may also have a Validity Time to indicate a time for which the device trigger replace request is valid.

The apparatus of example 19 the Device Notification AVP may also have a Trigger Data AVP that includes a Payload having data to be sent to the UE with the second trigger message a Priority Indication for the second trigger message and an Application Port Identifier to identify a triggering application at the UE to receive the second trigger message.

The apparatus of example 23 the Trigger Data AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3003 the Payload may have an assigned AVP code of 3004 the Priority Indication may have an assigned AVP code of 3006 and the Application Port Identifier may have an assigned AVP code of 3010.

The apparatus of example 19 the value may indicate the device replace request comprises the value set to 4.

The apparatus of example 19 the value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger replace request may include the value set to 0 for indicating success or the value set to 110 to indicate trigger replace failure or value set to 112 to indicated original trigger message already sent.

The apparatus of example 26 the value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger replace request may be set to 0. The MTC IWF may be arranged to release a given identifier used by the SCS to identify the first trigger message based on the value set to 0. The release given identifier may be available to the SCS for a third trigger message to the UE or another UE.

The apparatus of example 19 may also include a digital display coupled to the processor circuit to present a user interface view.

An example method may include receiving at an MTC IWF capable of operating in compliance with one or more 3GPP LTE standards including LTE A a DAR command from an SCS through a Tsp interface. The DAR command may include a Device Action AVP having an UE identifier to indicate an UE to receive a first trigger message initiated by the SCS an SCS Identifier for the SCS an Action Type AVP set to a value to indicate a device trigger replace request to replace the first trigger message with a second trigger message a Reference Number AVP set to identify the second trigger message and an Old Reference Number AVP set to identify the first trigger message. The method may also include forwarding the device trigger replace request to an SMS SC. The method may also include determining a status of the device trigger replace request responsive to an indication from the SMS SC of a success or failure to replace the first trigger message with the second trigger message. The method may also include sending a DAA command to the SCS through the Tsp interface. The DAA command may include a Device Notification AVP having the UE identifier the SCS Identifier the Reference Number AVP the Action Type AVP and a Request Status AVP set to a value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger replace request.

The method of example 29 the Device Action AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3001 the Reference Number AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3007 the Old Reference Number AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3011 the Action Type AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3005 the Device Notification AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3002 and the Request Status AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3008.

The method of example 29 the Device Notification AVP may also have a Validity Time to indicate a time for which the device trigger replace request is valid.

The method of example 29 the Device Notification AVP may also have a Trigger Data AVP that includes a Payload having data to be sent to the UE with the second trigger message a Priority Indication for the second trigger message and an Application Port Identifier to identify a triggering application at the UE to receive the second trigger message.

The method of example 33 the Trigger Data AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3003 the Payload may have an assigned AVP code of 3004 and the Application Port Identifier may have an assigned AVP code of 3010.

The method of example 29 the value to indicate the device replace request may include the value set to 4.

The method of example 29 the value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger replace request may include the value set to 0 for indicating success or the value set to 110 to indicate trigger replace failure or value set to 112 to indicated original trigger message already sent.

The method of example 36 may include the value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger replace request being set to 0. The method of example 36 may also include releasing a given identifier used to identify the first trigger message based on the value set to 0.

An example At least one machine readable medium may include a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a system at an UE may cause the system to carry out a method according to any one of examples 29 to 37.

An example at least one machine readable medium may include a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a system for a an MTC IWF capable of operating in compliance with one or more or more 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE standards including LTE Advanced LTE A may cause the system to receive a DAR command from an SCS. The DAR command may be receive through a Tsp interface. The DAR command may include a Device Action AVP having an UE identifier to indicate an UE to receive a first trigger message initiated by the SCS an SCS Identifier for the SCS an Action Type AVP set to a value to indicate a device trigger replace request to replace the first trigger message with a second trigger message a Reference Number AVP set to identify the second trigger message and an Old Reference Number AVP set to identify the first trigger message. The instructions may also cause the system to forward the device trigger replace request to an SMS SC. The instructions may also cause the system to determine a status of the device trigger replace request responsive to an indication from the SMS SC of a success or failure to replace the first trigger message with the second trigger message. The instructions may also cause the system to send a DAA command to the SCS through the Tsp interface. The DAA command may include a Device Notification AVP having the UE identifier the SCS Identifier the Reference Number AVP the Action Type AVP and a Request Status AVP set to a value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger replace request.

The least one machine readable medium of example 40 the UE identifier may include one of an External Id or an MSISDN.

The least one machine readable medium of example 40 the Device Action AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3001 the Reference Number AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3007 the Old Reference Number AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3011 the Action Type AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3005 the Device Notification AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3002 and the Request Status AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3008.

The least one machine readable medium of example 40 the Device Notification AVP may also have a Validity Time to indicate a time for which the device trigger replace request is valid.

The least one machine readable medium of example 40 the Device Notification AVP may also have a Trigger Data AVP that includes a Payload having data to be sent to the UE with the second trigger message a Priority Indication for the second trigger message and an Application Port Identifier to identify a triggering application at the UE to receive the second trigger message.

The least one machine readable medium of example 44 the Trigger Data AVP may have an assigned AVP code of 3003 the Payload may have an assigned AVP code of 3004 and the Application Port Identifier may have an assigned AVP code of 3010.

The least one machine readable medium of example 40 the value to indicate the device replace request may include the value set to 4.

The least one machine readable medium of example 40 the value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger replace request may include the value set to 0 for indicating success or the value set to 110 to indicate trigger replace failure or value set to 112 to indicated original trigger message already sent.

The least one machine readable medium of example 47 the value to indicate success or failure of the device trigger replace request may be set to 0. The instructions may further cause the system to release a given identifier used to identify the first trigger message based on the value set to 0.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the examples. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single example for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure.

This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed examples require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed example. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate example. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

