---

title: Method for displaying lock screen and electronic device thereof
abstract: A display method in an electronic device and the electronic device thereof are provided. The display method in the electronic device comprises storing a lock screen message received through a network; and, when time for displaying a lock screen arrives, displaying, as a lock screen, contents within the lock screen message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09380463&OS=09380463&RS=09380463
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09380463
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140925
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to a Korean Patent Application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Nov. 1 2013 and assigned Serial No. 10 2013 0132521 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure generally relates to a method for displaying a lock screen and an electronic device thereof.

A display module having a touch screen function is used in an electronic device such as a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC and the like. The display module can display a lock screen for preventing an unwanted operation from being carried out due to a user s unconscious touch error.

The current time and date a text message and the like can be displayed on the lock screen being overlaid on a preset image for example as illustrated in . The image can be displayed as a foreground image in the display module. A current communication state a battery level and the like can be displayed by means of an indicator and the like in an upper part of the display module.

A release pattern panel can be for example displayed on the lock screen being floated on the lock screen as illustrated in so that only a previously approved user can release the lock screen. The user can for example input a preset unique release pattern and release the lock screen as illustrated in . After that the user can select a variety of menus displayed on a displayed home menu screen and the like to execute an operation intended by the user.

The present disclosure has been made to address at least the above problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a method for displaying a lock screen and an electronic device thereof in which a transmission electronic device transmits by a lock screen message various types of contents such as an image a video a text and the like through a network and when time for displaying a lock screen arrives a reception electronic device displays as the lock screen the contents within the lock screen message.

According to an aspect of the present disclosure a display method in an electronic device is provided. The display method includes storing a lock screen message received through a network and when time for displaying a lock screen arrives displaying as a lock screen contents within the lock screen message.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided which includes a display module configured to display a lock screen and a processor configured to store a lock screen message received through a network and when time for displaying a lock screen arrives to display as a lock screen contents within the lock screen message.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure a computer readable storage medium storing a program for performing a method is provided. The method includes storing a lock screen message received through a network and when time for displaying a lock screen arrives displaying as the lock screen contents within the lock screen message.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure are described below with reference to the accompanying drawings. The various embodiments of the present disclosure exemplify specific embodiments in the drawings and state a related detailed description but can make various modifications and can have several embodiments. Accordingly it should be understood that the various embodiments of the present disclosure are not intended to be limited to a specific embodiment form and include all modifications equivalents or substitutes included in the spirit and technological scope of the various embodiments of the present disclosure. In relation to a description of the drawing like reference symbols denote like constituent elements.

In describing the various embodiments of the present disclosure well known functions or constructions are not described in detail since they would obscure the disclosure in unnecessary detail. The terms described below which are defined considering functions in the various embodiments of the present disclosure can be modified in accordance to a user and operator s intention or practice. Therefore definitions should be determined on the basis of the content throughout the present specification.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can be a device including a telecommunication function. For example the electronic device can be one or a combination of more of various electronic devices such as a smart phone a tablet PC a mobile phone a video phone an electronic book e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MPEG Audio Layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical instrument an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an appcessory a camera a wearable device an electronic clock a wrist watch a smart home appliance e.g. a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an artificial intelligence robot a TV a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio system an oven a microwave a washing machine an air cleaner an electronic frame and the like various medical instruments e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computerized Tomography CT a moving camera an ultrasound machine and the like a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a set top box a TV box for example Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV an electronic dictionary a car infotainment device an electronic equipment for ship for example a navigation device for ship a gyrocompass and the like avionics a security instrument electronic clothes an electronic locking system a camcorder a game console a Head Mounted Display HMD a flat panel display device an electronic album furniture or part of a building structure including the telecommunication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and the like. It is apparent to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to the various embodiments of present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned devices.

Referring to the electronic device includes a bus a processor a memory a user input module a display module and a communication module . The bus is a circuit connecting the aforementioned constituent elements with one another and forwarding communication e.g. control message among the aforementioned constituent elements. The processor for example receives instructions from the aforementioned other constituent elements e.g. the memory the user input module the display module the communication module and the like through the bus deciphers the received instructions and executes operations or data processing according to the deciphered instructions.

The memory stores an instruction or data which is received from the processor or the other constituent elements e.g. the user input module the display module the communication module and the like or is generated by the processor or the other constituent elements. The memory includes for example programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API an application and the like. The aforementioned respective programming modules can be comprised of software firmware hardware or a combination of at least two or more of them.

The kernel controls or manages system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and the like used for executing operations or functions implemented in the remnant other programming modules for example the middleware the API and the application . The kernel provides an interface capable of accessing and controlling or managing the individual constituent element of the electronic device in the middleware the API or the application . The application may be a plurality of applications.

The middleware performs a relay role such that the API or the application can communicate and exchange data with the kernel . Regarding work requests received from the plurality of applications the middleware also for example performs load balancing for the work requests by a method of allotting at least one application among the plurality of applications in the order of priority of using the system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and the like of the electronic device . The API is an interface enabling the application to control a function provided by the kernel or the middleware . The API includes for example at least one interface or function for file control window control image processing character control and the like.

The user input module for example receives an input of an instruction or data from a user and forwards the instruction or data to the processor or the memory through the bus . The display module displays an image a picture data and the like to the user. The communication module provides communication between the electronic device and other electronic device . The communication module supports a certain short range communication protocol e.g. Wireless Fidelity WiFi Bluetooth BT or Near Field Communication NFC and certain network communication e.g. the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network a Plain Old Telephone System POTS and the like . The electronic devices and each may be the same device e.g. the same type of the device as the electronic device or may be a different device e.g. a different type of the device .

Referring to the hardware includes one or more processors a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a communication module a sensor module a user input module a display module an interface an audio codec a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The processor includes one or more Application Processors APs and one or more Communication Processors CPs . The processor may be for example the processor illustrated in . Although illustrates that the AP and the CP are included within the processor the AP and the CP may be included within different IC packages. Alternatively the AP and the CP may be included within one IC package.

The AP drives an operating system or an application program controls a plurality of hardware or software constituent elements connected to the AP and performs operations and processing of various data including multimedia data. The AP may be for example implemented as a System on Chip SoC . The processor may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU .

The CP performs a function of managing a data link and converting a communication protocol in a communication between an electronic device e.g. the electronic device including the hardware and other electronic devices connected through a network. The CP may be implemented as a SoC for example. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the CP performs at least part of a multimedia control function. The CP for example performs terminal distinction and authentication within a communication network using a subscriber identity module e.g. the SIM card . The CP also provides services of voice telephony video telephony a text message packet data and the like to a user.

The CP controls data transmission reception of the communication module . Although illustrates the constituent elements such as the CP the power management module the memory and the like as constituent elements separate from the AP the AP may be implemented to include at least some e.g. the CP of the aforementioned constituent elements. According to one embodiment of the present disclosure the AP or the CP loads to a volatile memory an instruction or data received from a non volatile memory connected to each of the AP and the CP or at least one of other constituent elements and processes the loaded instruction or data. The AP or the CP also stores in the non volatile memory data received from at least one of the other constituent elements or generated by at least one of the other constituent elements.

The SIM card is a card implementing the subscriber identity module and can be inserted into a slot provided in a specific location of the electronic device. The SIM card includes unique identification information e.g. Integrated Circuit Card ID ICCID or subscriber information e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory includes an internal memory or an external memory . The memory may be for example the memory illustrated in . The internal memory includes for example at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static Random Access Memory SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM and the like and a non volatile memory e.g. a One Time PROM OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask Read Only Memory ROM a flash ROM a Not AND NAND flash memory a Not OR NOR flash memory and the like . According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the internal memory takes a form of Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include for example Compact Flash CF Secure Digital SD Micro Secure Digital Micro SD Mini Secure Digital Mini SD extreme Digital xD a memory stick and the like.

The communication module includes a wireless communication module or a Radio Frequency RF module . The communication module may be for example the communication module illustrated in . The wireless communication module includes for example WiFi BT GPS and NFC . For example the wireless communication module provides a wireless communication function using radio frequency. The wireless communication module may further include a network interface e.g. a LAN card a modem and the like for connecting the hardware with a network e.g. the Internet a LAN a WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network a POTS and the like .

The RF module takes charge of transmission reception of data for example transmission reception of an RF signal or a called electric signal. The RF module includes though not illustrated for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA and the like. The RF module may further include a component for transmitting receiving an electromagnetic wave on a free space in wireless communication for example a conductor a conductive line and the like.

The sensor module includes for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an air pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a Red Green Blue RGB sensor H a biological sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J a light sensor K and a Ultraviolet UV sensor M. The sensor module measures a physical quantity or senses an activation state of the electronic device and converts measured or sensed information into an electrical signal. The sensor module may further include for example an Electronic nose E nose sensor an Electromyography EMG sensor an Electroencephalogram EEG sensor an Electrocardiogram ECG sensor a fingerprint sensor and the like. The sensor module may further include a control circuit for controlling at least one or more sensors provided therein. The sensor module is controlled by the processor .

The user input module includes a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key and an ultrasonic input device . The user input module may be for example the user input module illustrated in . The touch panel recognizes for example a touch input in at least one of a capacitive method a pressure sensitive method an infrared method and an ultrasonic method. The touch panel may further include a controller. In the capacitive method recognition of not only direct touch but also proximity is possible. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel provides a tactile response to a user.

The digital pen sensor is implemented for example using the same or similar method with receiving a user s touch input or a separate sheet for recognition. The key is for example a keypad or a touch key. The ultrasonic input device is a device capable of confirming data by sensing a sound wave with a microphone e.g. a microphone of the electronic device and performs wireless recognition through a pen generating an ultrasonic signal. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the hardware also receives a user input from an external device e.g. a network a computer or a server connected to the hardware using the communication module .

The display module includes a panel and a hologram . The display module may be for example the display module illustrated in . The panel is for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AMOLED and the like. The panel is implemented to be flexible transparent or wearable for example. The panel may also be constructed as one module together with the touch panel . The hologram shows a three dimensional image in the air by using interference of light. The display module may further include a control circuit for controlling the panel and the hologram .

The interface includes for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB a projector and a D subminiature D sub . The interface may further include for example Secure Digital Multi Media Card SD MMC or Infrared Data Association IrDA . The audio codec converts a voice to an electric signal or vice versa. The audio codec converts for example voice information that is inputted or outputted through a speaker a receiver an earphone the microphone and the like.

The camera module is a device capable of taking an image and a video. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the camera module includes one or more image sensors e.g. a front lens or a rear lens an Image Signal Processor ISP or a flash LED. The power management module manages power of the hardware . Though not illustrated the power management module may further include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC and a battery gauge.

The PMIC is mounted for example within an integrated circuit or a SoC semiconductor. A charging method can be divided into wired and wireless. The charger IC charges a battery and prevents the inflow of overvoltage or overcurrent from an electric charger. The charger IC includes a charger IC for at least one of a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. The wireless charging method includes for example a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method an electromagnetic method and the like. The charger IC is added with supplementary circuits for wireless charging for example circuits of a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier circuit and the like. The battery gauge measures for example a level of the battery a voltage in charging an electric current or a temperature.

The battery generates electricity and supplies a power source. The battery may be for example a rechargeable battery. The indicator displays a specific state of the hardware or a part e.g. the AP thereof such as a booting state a message state a charging state and the like. The motor converts an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration.

Though not illustrated the hardware may further include a processing device e.g. a GPU for mobile TV support. The processing device for mobile TV support processes for example standard media data of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB a media flow and the like.

The names of the aforementioned constituent elements of the hardware according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can be varied according to the type of an electronic device. The hardware according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one of the aforementioned constituent elements and may omit some constituent elements or further include additional other constituent elements. Also some of the constituent elements of the hardware according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure are coupled and constructed as one entity thereby being able to identically perform the functions of the corresponding constituent elements before being coupled.

The programming module may be included e.g. stored in the electronic device e.g. the memory of illustrated in . At least part of the programming module is constructed by software firmware hardware or a combination of at least two or more of them.

The programming module includes an Operating System OS implemented in hardware e.g. the hardware of and controlling resources related to the electronic device e.g. the electronic device of or various applications e.g. the application driven on the operating system. For example the operating system is Android iPhone OS iOS Windows Symbian Tizen Badda and the like. Referring to the programming module includes a kernel a middleware an API and an application .

The kernel e.g. the kernel of includes a system resource manager or a device driver . The system resource manager includes for example a process management unit a memory management unit a file system management unit and the like. The system resource manager performs control of a system resource allocation thereof recovery thereof and the like. The device driver includes for example a display driver a camera driver a Bluetooth driver a shared memory driver a USB driver a keypad driver a WiFi driver and an audio driver. The device driver may further include an Inter Process Communication IPC driver.

The middleware includes a plurality of modules previously implemented to provide a function commonly required by the application . The middleware also provides a function through the API such that the application can make efficient use of a restricted system resource within the electronic device.

As illustrated in the middleware e.g. the middleware of includes at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager and a security manager .

The runtime library includes for example a library module used by a compiler to add a new function through a programming language while the application is executed. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure the runtime library performs a function of input output memory management arithmetic function and the like. The application manager manages for example a life cycle of at least one application among the applications . The window manager manages a GUI resource used in a screen.

The multimedia manager grasps a format necessary for playing various media files and performs encoding or decoding of a media file using a codec suitable to a corresponding format. The resource manager manages a resource such as a source code of at least any one application among the applications a memory thereof a storage space thereof and the like. The power manager operates together with a Basic Input Output System BIOS and the like to manage a battery or a power source and provides power information and the like necessary for the operation. The database manager manages to create search or change a database to be used in at least one application among the applications .

The package manager manages installation or updating of an application which is distributed in a form of a package file. The connectivity manager manages for example wireless connection such as WiFi Bluetooth and the like. The notification manager displays or notifies an event such as an arrival message an appointment a proximity notification and the like in a way not giving a disturbance to a user. The location manager manages location information of the electronic device.

The graphic manager manages a graphic effect to be provided to a user or a user interface related thereto. The security manager provides a general security function necessary for system security user authentication and the like. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure if the electronic device e.g. the electronic device of has a phone function the middleware further includes a telephony manager for managing a voice or video telephony function of the electronic device.

The middleware creates and uses a new middleware module through a combination of various functions of the aforementioned internal constituent element modules. The middleware provides a module specialized by type of an operating system so as to provide a differentiated function. Also the middleware dynamically deletes some of the existing constituent elements or adds new constituent elements. Accordingly the middleware may omit some of the constituent elements stated in various embodiments of the present disclosure further include other constituent elements or substitute with constituent elements of different names performing similar functions.

The API e.g. the API of is a set of API programming functions and can be provided to have other construction in accordance to an operating system. For example in a case of Android or iOS it for example provides one API set by platform and in a case of Tizen it for example provides two or more API sets. The application e.g. the application of for example includes a preloaded application or a third party application.

At least part of the programming module is implemented by an instruction stored in a computer readable storage medium. When the instruction is executed by one or more processors e.g. the processor of the one or more processors perform a function corresponding to the instruction. The computer readable storage medium may be for example the memory of . At least part of the programming module may be for example implemented e.g. executed by the processor of .

At least part of the programming module for example includes a module a program a routine an instruction set a process and the like for performing one or more functions. The names of the constituent elements of the programming module e.g. the programming module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can be varied in accordance to the type of an operating system. Also the programming module according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure may include at least one or more of the aforementioned constituent elements omit some of the aforementioned constituent elements or further include additional other constituent elements.

A method for displaying a lock screen in an electronic device and the electronic device thereof according to an embodiment of the present disclosure are described below in detail. The electronic device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure includes the constituent elements illustrated in . The processor of the electronic device controls operations of the display module the application processor and the like and displays a lock screen. For example when the display module turns off if the processor turns on the display module again after the lapse of a preset time the processor displays the lock screen in order to prevent the execution of an erroneous operation caused by a touch error.

In accordance to a user s request the processor also controls operations of the application processor and the like and generates a lock screen message. The processor then transmits the lock screen message to a reception Rx electronic device of a counterpart such as a friend a family and the like. The lock screen message may be called as any other name.

The contents information includes various images or videos which are taken by a user or are downloaded through a network. Further the contents information further includes a text an audio and the like inputted by the user. The contents information also includes various additional information for indicating number of contents contents type contents length and the like.

The control data includes a display start time a display end time and the like for controlling an operation of displaying contents. The display start time indicates the first start time at which contents can be displayed as a lock screen. A user of the transmission electronic device can arbitrarily set and designate the display start time such that corresponding contents are displayed as the lock screen at a desired time. The display end time indicates the final end time at which the contents can be displayed as the lock screen. The user of the transmission electronic device can arbitrarily set and designate the display end time such that the corresponding contents are no longer displayed as the lock screen after the desired time.

The control data further includes information about the number of display times which are the times that corresponding contents will be displayed as a lock screen. For example if the number of display times is one the corresponding contents are displayed as the lock screen only one time. If the number of display times is infinite the corresponding contents are displayed as the lock screen continuously as long as a user of the reception electronic device does not remove the corresponding contents.

The processor adds arbitrary text and additional information to the contents selected by the user in step S. For example a user can input to the contents a text an audio and the like of a message intended to be delivered to a counterpart through a User Interface UI and can add to the contents control data about a display start time a display end time a display count and the like as control data for controlling an operation of displaying the contents.

Meantime as described above with reference to the processor automatically generates the number of contents contents type contents length information and the like as contents information about an image a video a text an audio and the like and adds the generated information to the contents to complete a lock screen message.

If the lock screen message is completed through the aforementioned process in step S the processor receives an input of callee information from a user through the user interface. If the user directly inputs a phone number of a desired counterpart as the callee information or selects an arbitrary phone number stored in an address book and the like as the callee information in step S the processor transmits the lock screen message to at least one or more counterparts through the network in step S after including the inputted or selected phone number in the callee information within the lock screen message.

If the lock screen message is not completed through the aforementioned process in step S the procedure repeats step S. If the callee information is not input e.g. directly input or selected in step S the procedure repeats step S.

As illustrated in the reception Rx electronic device receives a lock screen transmitted by the transmission Tx electronic device and share the lock screen with the transmission Tx electronic device. So when the lock screen is displayed a user of the reception electronic device can rapidly and easily confirm contents such as an image a video and the like transmitted by the transmission electronic device and send a message intended to be delivered by the transmission electronic device through the lock screen.

The processor controls an operation of the application processor processes by decoding the extracted contents in step S and displays the processed contents as the lock screen in step S. The processor may also previously process that is process before time for displaying the lock screen arrives by extraction and decoding the contents within the lock screen message and store an image a video a text an audio and the like within a memory. When time for displaying the lock screen arrives the processor outputs as the lock screen the image the video the text the audio and the like stored within the memory.

As illustrated in if the display module is converted from an off state to an on state that is time for displaying the lock screen arrives the display module displays an image a video a text and the like of a lock screen transmitted by a transmission electronic device. At this time the shared lock screen 1 displays the time and date when the lock screen message is received and the like. The lock screen further displays a caller name and the like corresponding to a caller s phone number.

The processor compares if the confirmed caller information for example the caller s phone number is a phone number included within a preset address book for example As illustrated in or compares if the confirmed caller information is a phone number within a white list or permitted list of callers set by a user in step S so as to determine the effectiveness of the lock screen message apart from the address book. For example an address book or a white list is illustrated in .

If the caller information included within the lock screen message is effective caller information included within the address book or white list as the comparison result in step S the processor stores the lock screen message in step S. If the caller information included within the lock screen message is not effective caller information included within the address book or white list as the comparison result in step S the processor disregards without storing the lock screen message in step S. The processor can store a lock screen message received from a friend a family and the like and can disregard without storing a lock screen message received from a pirate advertisement company a third party and the like.

If the confirmed type of the contents is a video in step S the processor processes by decoding the contents of the video into Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG and the like and captures an MPEG intra picture as a still image in step S. The processor overlays a touchable play icon on the captured still image and displays the overlaying result in step S.

As illustrated in an icon of a unique shape for playing a video in accordance to a user s touch is displayed with being overlaid on a still image representing a video of a shared lock screen 2. The still image displayed as the lock screen is displayed with a message e.g. Hi Papa of a text intended to be delivered by a counterpart the time and date when the lock screen message is received and the like. The still image is further displayed with a caller name and the like corresponding to a caller s phone number.

Referring back to if a user touches the play icon in step S the processor starts a video display operation in step S and then performs an operation requested by the user in step S. If a user does not touch the play icon in step S the processor performs an operation requested by the user in step S.

The processor can confirm control data included in the lock screen message and control an operation of displaying an image a video a text an audio and the like as the lock screen. For example if the current time in an electronic device is out of a period between a display start time and a display end time included in the control data the processor no longer displays as the lock screen the contents within the lock screen message and the processor returns to a previous lock screen set as a default by a user and displays the previous lock screen.

As mentioned above the processor can overlay or replace the contents within the lock screen message with an image of the previous lock screen set as the default by the user and display the image as a foreground image in an uppermost layer. If the lock screen message received and stored is in plural the processor concurrently displays as multi screens of various forms a plurality of contents read out within the respective lock screen messages. For example if the number of images of the contents to be concurrently displayed as the multi screens is M e.g. M 2 the processor reduces the respective images to the same size and displays the reduced images on one lock screen.

If the number of images of the contents to be concurrently displayed as the multi screens is N e.g. N 4 the processor decides any one of the images as a main image and decides the remnant images as sub images and displays the main image relatively larger than the sub images. As illustrated in an image of a 1lock screen message and a still image representing a video of a 2lock screen message are reduced and overlaid on the image of the previous lock screen set as the default by the user.

When reducing the plurality of contents and displaying the reduced contents as the multi screens the processor edits any one or more of a size of a text included within each content and a display location of the text such that the text and the like so that they can be normally displayed within each of the reduced images. As illustrated in when the number of the lock screen message is four or more the processor displays as a main image a 1image whose reception time is fastest and reduces the remnant other images to thumbnail images that is images in a size of a thumbnail and displays the thumbnail images in a screen comprising multi screens or a screen list including multi screens.

The thumbnail images are movable by a user s touch. As illustrated in if a user selects any one of the thumbnail images the 1image displayed as the main image is reduced and displayed as a thumbnail image and the selected thumbnail image is expanded and displayed as a main image. The user can confirm the plurality of images extracted within the respective lock screen messages through a screen a screen list and the like.

At least a part of an operation and function performed in the processor may be performed for example in a server over a network described above with reference to . For example the operation of creating the lock screen message in the transmission electronic device may be performed in the server instead. Further the operation of determining the effectiveness of the lock screen message the operation of editing into the multi screen or the multi screen list and the like in the reception electronic device may also be performed in the server instead.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure an electronic device can change a lock screen which is used for preventing the occurrence of an erroneous operation caused by a touch error and the like into various contents such as an image a video a text and the like transmitted by a friend a family and the like through a network and display the various contents. Thus an electronic device can share the various contents through the lock screen and also quickly and easily confirm a message of a counterpart even when the lock screen is displayed.

Methods according to embodiments stated in claims and or specification of various embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented in a form of hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. When the methods are implemented by the software a computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs i.e. software modules can be provided. The one or more programs stored in the computer readable storage medium are configured to be executed by one or more processors within an electronic device.

The one or more programs can include instructions for enabling the electronic device to execute the methods according to the various embodiments stated in the claims and or specification of the various embodiments of the present disclosure. These programs i.e. software modules or software can be stored in a Random Access Memory RAM a non volatile memory including a flash memory a ROM an EEPROM a magnetic disk storage device a Compact Disk ROM CD ROM a Digital Video Disk DVD or an optical storage device of other form and a magnetic cassette.

Alternately the programs can be stored in a memory constructed by a combination of some or all of them. Also each constructed memory may be included in plural. The programs can be stored in an attachable storage device accessible through a communication network such as the Internet an intranet a LAN a Wireless LAN WLAN and a Storage Area Network SAN or a communication network constructed by a combination of them. This storage device can access a device through an external port. Also a separate storage device on the communication network may access a device performing an embodiment of the present disclosure.

In the aforementioned embodiments of the present disclosure constituent elements of the disclosure have been expressed in the singular number or the plural number in accordance to the proposed embodiments. But the expression of the singular number or plural number is merely selected suitable to a proposed situation for description s convenience. Various embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to singular or plural constituent elements. Even the constituent element expressed in the plural number can be constructed in the singular number or even the constituent element expressed in the singular number can be constructed in the plural number.

While various embodiments of the present disclosure have been shown and described in detail it is undoubted that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the various embodiments of the present disclosure. Therefore the scope of the various embodiments of the present disclosure should not be limited and defined by the described embodiments and should be defined by not only the appended claims but also equivalents to the appended claims.

