---

title: Method and system for evaluating a user response to a presence based action
abstract: An approach and system for determining a level of effectiveness of a device action performed in response to the presence of a user is described. The system identifies a user associated with a presence signal transmitted by a transmitting object in use by the user during an event. The system also initiates a rendering of content associated with the user, an event host, one or more items associated with the event host, or a combination thereof at a sensing device that detects the presence signal. Still further, the system determines a response of the user to the content based on movement information, location information, transaction information, or a combination thereof associated with the transmitting object, the user, or a combination thereof during the event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09516472&OS=09516472&RS=09516472
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09516472
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141010
---
Service providers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by providing compelling network services and advancing the underlying technologies. One area of interest has been automating the execution of certain device actions based on the proximity of users to a presence sensing device i.e. a device capable of detecting presence signals. By way of example a display device may be configured to detect a presence signal broadcast by a user s mobile device as they walk towards the display. Under this scenario the display may detect the identity or presence of the user and present targeted content to the user. Unfortunately the user has to opt in prior to being able to interact with the presence sensing device thus requiring them to provide identity information and likely reducing their participation. Moreover there is currently no convenient means of determining a level of effectiveness of the automated device action performed by the presence sensing device in response to the presence signal.

An apparatus method and software for determining a level of effectiveness of a device action performed in response to the presence of a user is described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Although the various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to the rendering of content based on the determined presence of a user it is contemplated these embodiments have applicability to any automated device actions. This may include for example the execution of purchase transactions the activating or deactivating of electronics machinery and various computing devices the generating of reports or the like.

As noted previously in certain implementations sensing devices may be configured to perform various device actions in response to the detection of presence signals from a transmitting device of a user. For example in the case where the transmitting device is a mobile phone a display system capable of sensing presence signals may be caused to present target advertisements to the user as the user walks towards the display. As another example a point of sales system configured to detect presence signals may automatically retrieve coupon information or payment information relating to the user based on their proximity to the checkout are for finalizing a purchase transaction at a store. As yet another example a sales kiosk featuring one or more audio devices for detecting the presence of a user may retrieve and subsequently render audio advertisements of nearby items on sale. Hence various device actions may be programmatically implemented for direct or indirect execution by sensing devices in response to the detection of the presence of users.

In certain instances the transmitting device may be a standalone device or integrated for use within another object i.e. as a transmitting object. For example a transmitter may be contained within a wristband to be worn by a user attached to a key chain etc. As such any object capable of being transported by a user may serve the purpose of transmitting presence signals thus enabling the transmitting object to be employed as the user engages in shopping attends a concert or meeting or participates in any other event. Unfortunately the user has to opt in prior to interacting with the presence sensing device. As a result the user is forced to provide identifying information to the provider of the presence sensing device which may jeopardize their anonymity and reduce the likelihood of participation.

Furthermore in the case where the sensing device is the user s mobile device e.g. their smartphone the user must be looking at the device display in order to notice any content being rendered as their device interacts with various transmitters. Unfortunately this requires the user to be looking at their mobile device display as opposed to the event host s items e.g. products for sale .

Still further while various implementations and automated executions are capable of being performed based on the determined presence of a user there is currently no convenient means of identifying the response of users to the action. For example the owner of a store e.g. an event host that has transmitters placed throughout a venue may not be able to determine the response of a user to a particular advertisement rendered to a display. Still further the event host may not be able to identify the resulting movement patterns or purchase activities of the user as a result of the automated action. There is currently no convenient direct or near real time means of determining the quality or effectiveness of the action.

To address this issue system presents a presence platform that is configured to operate in connection with one or more sensing devices referred to herein collectively as sensing devices . In one embodiment the presence platform executes various instructions for managing the interaction between the sensing devices and various transmitting devices referred to herein collectively as transmitters employed by of one or more users during an event. For the purpose of illustration herein the event may be a meeting concert shopping recreation driving or any other activity excursion or the like to be participated in by the user at a designated location and or with respect to a certain venue. The event host may be any person or group thereof that facilitate sponsor or is associated with the event or one or more items e.g. purchase items made available to users at the event. It is noted therefore that the event host and or any affiliates thereof including various third party content service providers may employ the presence platform accordingly for supporting interaction between users and sensing devices based on the determined presence of users at the event. The presence platform enables the user to interact with the sensing devices anonymously thus allowing for but not requiring the exchange of identification information between the transmitters and the sensing devices .

In one embodiment the sensing devices may have integrated therein circuitry sensors and or an operating system for detecting presence signals transmitted by nearby compatible transmitters . As such the presence platform may execute one or more application programming interfaces APIs for interacting with the sensing devices . The sensing devices may include a display device e.g. device an audio device e.g. device a fixed or portable terminal including a display device interactive sales terminal digital kiosk a multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the sensing devices may support any type of interface for exchanging presence data. In addition sensing devices may facilitate various input means for receiving and generating information including touch screen capability keyboard and keypad data entry voice based input mechanisms and the like. Any known and future implementations of sensing devices are applicable or any other electronic device for rendering media content to users.

In one embodiment the sensing devices may be selectively placed throughout the event venue by an event host for detecting the presence of users as they navigate an event. For example the host of a convention held at a meeting facility may place several presence detection capable display devices e.g. device at different locations throughout the hallways and in the meeting rooms. The sensing devices may interact with a transmitting object associated with the user during the event. Under this scenario the displays may present meeting schedule information or room assignment details to specific users as they walk about the hallways or approach a meeting room. A first user may be presented with meeting schedule information pertaining to their agenda while a second user is presented with speaker notes regarding the meeting in which they are the guest speaker. It is noted the first and second users may be presented with personal content based on an opt in or personal identification information sharing procedure performed with respect to the event host.

As another example a third anonymous user may be presented with general meeting agenda information i.e. content not specific to them but related to the overall event. Still further the third user may be presented with menu information regarding a restaurant within proximity of the user. Under this scenario the third anonymous user may be a conference attendee that chose to opt out of sharing personal identification information with the sensing devices . As such the presence signals generated by the transmitters do not include identifying information regarding the user. Also per this scenario the user may choose to forgo any biometric analysis or other personal identification procedures during the event. It is noted therefore that the presence platform may support interaction between the sensing devices and transmitters regardless of the identification information sharing preferences of the user.

In one embodiment the transmitters may be integrated for use in connection with an object capable of being transported by the user as they participate in an event. This may include for example a shopping cart a folder a shopping basket a keychain a table reservation placard a ticket a wristband or the like. For the purpose of illustration such objects related to the event or event host are referred to herein collectively as transmitting objects i.e. objects having a direct or indirect ability to broadcast presence signals. The transmitting objects may be employed by users as they participate in the event. As such it is noted that the transmitting objects and sensing devices may be provided by the event host or an affiliate thereof for use by users during the event.

In one embodiment the sensing devices and transmitters conform to a common messaging protocol for enabling transmitter to receiver interaction and awareness. By way of example a transmitting object e.g. shopping cart that transmits low energy beacon signals during a shopping event can only be detected by a sensing device configured to detect and interpret beacon signals i.e. those conforming to the iBeacon protocol. Under this scenario for example the beacon signal advertises broadcasts the following information in Table 1 as a low energy Bluetooth message 

In the example above the UUID major and minor values provide the identifying information for a broadcast iBeacon signal along with the range detection requirements to be executed with respect to the signal. In the case of the latter a major range or region may correspond to a transmission radius X while a minor range may correspond to a smaller transmission radius Y. It is noted the radius may define a proximity condition to be met in order to enable presence detection between the transmitting object and the sensing device .

When the sensing device detects the beacon signal it uses the strength of the signal to determine whether the proximity condition of the transmitting object is met as well as the accuracy of its estimation of proximity. The stronger the signal the more confident the sensing device is about the proximity condition being met. The weaker the signal the less confident the sensing device is about the proximity condition being met. For the purpose of illustration the strength of the beacon signal may be classified by the sensing device as shown in Table 2 

It is noted that various other short range protocols and presence detection approaches may be employed. Similarly different range proximity state categorization approaches may be employed depending on the protocol being employed.

In one embodiment the sensing device interacts with the presence platform in response to receipt of a presence signal. For example the sensing device may submit a notification to the presence platform for indicating the presence of a transmitting object i.e. by way of a communication network e.g. a service provider network . The notification may specify a device identifier of the sensing device a host identifier of the event host associated with the sensing device a network identifier etc. Once received the presence platform authenticates the sensing device and or event host accordingly based on credentials maintained in a profile database . It is noted that the credentials may be established by the event host in advance such as during an initial subscription or registration process with the presence platform . As such the event host may define the various sensing devices event locations users accounts etc. to be managed by the presence platform in response to the detection of presence signals.

In one embodiment the presence platform processes presence signals in order to identify the user associated with the transmitting object . This may include for example determining whether the user identifier e.g. UUID specified corresponds to existing user profile information maintained by the beacon platform . The profile information may be maintained in a profile database of the beacon platform and may include for example a reference to the user identifier name or handle information historic transaction information historic movement information etc. In another embodiment the identity of the user may be determined based on biometric authentication means. For example upon entry to an event a designated scanning device video camera or voice recorder of the event host may gather facial image data iris data voice data or other user characteristic data. This data may then be processed by the presence platform via any known data recognition techniques for identifying a match with the user.

Alternatively in the case where no profile information exists the presence platform assigns a user identifier to the transmitting object . This corresponds to the scenario wherein no prior association or history exists between the user of the transmitting object and the event and or event host. Once assigned the presence platform transmits the user identifier to the sensing device that received the presence signal of the unidentified transmitting object . The sensing device then transmits the user identifier to the transmitting object for storage to the transmitter . As a result of this execution subsequent presence signals broadcast by the transmitting object specify the user identifier during the shopping event.

Still further in certain embodiments biometric information regarding the user may be gathered by the presence platform in conjunction with various data collection devices of the event host for establishing user identification information. For example upon entry of a user to a grocery store or during retrieval of a shopping cart equipped with a transmitter the presence platform may gather facial image data iris data voice data or other user characteristic data via a designated scanning device video camera or voice recorder. This data may then be stored as profile information in association with a newly assigned user identifier e.g. UUID .

It is noted the above described assignment procedure may be performed during first time use of the transmitting object by a user. For example in the case where the event host is the owner of a grocery store and the user is a first time visitor the above described assignment process may be performed. In addition the assignment procedure may be performed in connection with a transaction performed by the user. For example in the case where the user makes a purchase via a point of sale system payment information name information or other data related to the purchase may be associated with an assigned user identifier and stored to the profile database .

In certain embodiments the transmitter may be activated or deactivated based on the current level of use of the transmitting object e.g. active or inactive . The transmitter may also be activated or deactivated based on the determined movement of the user the navigation of the user to a destination point e.g. a cart storage area a checkout area a location of a display device during the event a duration of time of the movement a duration of time of the user at the destination point etc. The activation or deactivation may correspond to a period of time of monitoring of the presence movement or activity of the user by the presence platform during the event. It may also correspond to a period of active or inactive powering or use of the transmitter of a respective transmitting object .

In one embodiment the presence platform initiates a rendering of content to a sensing device in response to the determined presence of a user within proximity of the sensing device . By way of example the content may include music videos advertisements coupons instructions or any other form or type of media capable of being rendered by a display device a speaker system a computing device a mobile device etc. Under this scenario the presence platform retrieves the content from a content service i.e. a cloud service or any other resource associated with the event host.

By way of example when the user is exercising at a gymnasium equipped with presence detection enabled equipment the presence platform may identify the user by way of a transmitting wristband. Under this scenario the transmitting wristband may broadcast presence signals as the user approaches an elliptical machine. Per the specified user identifier the presence platform determines a preferred historical machine setting of the user and renders these settings to the control device of the elliptical machine automatically thus requiring no manual adjusting of the machine. As another example the presence platform may cause the rendering of specific movie or television content to a video display configured to the elliptical machine. The presence platform may select the content based on a historical preference of the user for the content a target or predicted preference of the user etc. Still further the content may be retrieved by the presence platform from a third party movie or television content service.

It is noted that the time of rendering or execution of the content may be based on the extent of proximity of the user to the sensing device movement information regarding the user etc. For example video content to be rendered to a presence detection enabled display device may be timed for execution when the user is within x feet of the display. Similarly the rate of playback of the video content may be increased or decreased based on the proximity or rate of movement of the user as they walk away from or towards the display. The presence platform may further select different content to be presented based on a determined or predicted variation in proximity movement activity or perceived interest of the user.

In one embodiment the presence platform may be configured to monitor and subsequently evaluate the response of users to the rendered content. The evaluation may be performed against criteria established by the event host or content provider for indicating the effectiveness of the content rendered. Per the criteria the presence platform may evaluate a current response behavior of the user to the rendered content and generate evaluation report results. For example the criteria may specify a minimum or target purchase amount or a preferred item type or quantity thereof that is considered favorable to the event host. As another example the criteria may correspond to a preferred stop duration lack of movement of the user for a given duration of content. Under this scenario a user stop duration of 10 seconds for a 30 second advertisement may be considered more favorable than only a 4 second stop thus indicating the receptivity of the user to the content.

In another example the criteria may correspond to a desired movement pattern of the user about an event location. Under this scenario the movement pattern of the user may be determined based on the analysis of changing timestamp information proximity information and location information associated with the presence signals transmitted by the transmitting object . The movement pattern may then be compared to the desired or expected pattern by the event host or content provider to determine if the behavior of the user correlates. Based on this an effectiveness of the rendered content to induce the user to visit certain destination points i.e. a location of a particular purchase item the sales desk checkout etc. may be determined. It is noted in certain embodiments that the evaluation may be generated as one or more reports for use by the event host or content provider. It is further noted that the reports may be generated in near real time for providing immediate feedback to the event host.

In one embodiment the presence platform may dynamically adapt the content or mode of rendering of subsequent content while the user is at the event based on the evaluated response of the user to a first rendering of content. For example the presence platform may evaluate transaction information generated with respect to the user to determine if items presented as content are actually purchased. In the case where the user purchases an item the presence platform may subsequently render upsell related content e.g. content related to add ons products or additional features of the purchased item to a display device during the event. Under this approach the upsell content is presented based on the evaluation results indicating a favorable response of the user to the prior content with the intention of inducing the user to make additional purchases while at the store.

While the above described executions pertain to the rendering of content it is further noted that the presence platform may enable the rendering or execution of other actions by a sensing device. For example in the case where the sensing device is an automated vehicle system the presence platform may initiate execution of instructions for the system to guide the vehicle to a favorite restaurant location of the user in response to determining the approach of the user to the vehicle. As another example the presence platform may adjust the light settings within a certain room of a home in response to the sensing of the presence of the user by a lighting controller at the home. Hence the rendering action of the presence platform is not limited to only content but to any instructions or executions for enabling automated device action.

It is noted that the presence platform may interface directly with the various sensing devices as well as other systems of the event host such as a point of sales system terminal node transport system etc. Under this scenario the presence platform may physically reside at the location of the event or venue as a hub or server device for submitting control signals directly to respective sensing devices . Alternatively the control platform may be implemented as a platform or network hosted solution for initiating a rendering of content at a sensing device such as via a network connection e.g. via a service provider network . For example the presence platform and other elements of system may be configured to communicate via a service provider network . According to certain embodiments one or more networks such as data network telephony network and or wireless network can interact with the service provider network . Networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network.

Networks may employ various technologies for enabling wireless communication including for example code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Still further the communication provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner the communication network may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

It is noted though not shown in the figure that in certain embodiments user devices may be configured to establish peer to peer communication sessions with each other using a variety of technologies near field communication NFC Bluetooth ZigBee infrared etc. Also connectivity can be provided via a wireless local area network LAN . By way of example a group of user devices may be configured to a common LAN so that each device can be uniquely identified via any suitable network addressing scheme. For example the LAN may utilize the dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP to dynamically assign private DHCP internet protocol IP addresses to each user device i.e. IP addresses that are accessible to devices connected to the service provider network as facilitated via a router.

In one embodiment an authentication module authenticates sensing devices for interaction with the presence platform . One or more content services may also be authenticated for interaction accordingly. By way of example the authentication module receives a request from an event host to initially subscribe register to the platform for enabling the rendering of content based on the presence of users during an event. This may include establishing credentials of the event host a range of unique user identifiers to be assigned to one or more transmitters of the event host payment credentials or the like. These credentials may be stored to the profile database in connection with the event host the event or a combination thereof as one or more event host profiles. Similarly one or more user profiles of established users of transmitting objects associated with the event host may also be stored to the database during the subscription registration process.

The authentication module may also receive a notice message for indicating the transmission of a presence signal by a transmitting object or transmitter thereof to one of the sensing devices associated with the event host. Once this notification is received the authentication module alerts the presence detection module . In one embodiment the presence detection module analyzes the presence detection signal or contents thereof in order to determine an identity of the user. This may include comparing the user identifier information specified per the signal against profile information to determine if the user is known or unknown to the event host. This may include for example processing biometric data gathered in connection with the user processing a unique user identifier specified by the signal or a combination thereof. In addition the presence detection module may determine whether a proximity status condition is met with respect to the user of the transmitting object .

When a match is found between the user and an existing profile and a proximity condition is met the presence detection module transmits a notification message to the sensing device via the communication interface . The notification message alerts the sensing device that the transmitting object is associated with a known user and that the sensing device may interact with the transmitting object during the event.

When no match is found between the user and an existing profile even when the proximity condition is met the presence detection module assigns a unique identifier to the user and creates a new profile accordingly. Alternatively the module may submit a notification message e.g. via the communication interface to one or more biometric data gathering devices of the event host for facilitating the gathering and storing of biometric data associated with the user. Once gathered the module assigns a user identifier to the data and creates a profile accordingly. It is noted that the communication interface may execute various application programming interfaces APIs for supporting communication between the presence platform and the various sensing devices or other systems of the event host.

In one embodiment the content retrieval module retrieves content from a content service based on the determined identity and presence of a user. The content is retrieved based on the current location movement or activity of the user during the event. In addition the content retrieval module may also process historical transaction activity movement item preference details or other information regarding the user for selecting content to be retrieved and subsequently rendered by a sensing device . It is noted that the content retrieval module may access one or more criteria or rules established by the event host for determining the retrieval of content. The content may include music videos advertisements coupons instructions or any other form or type of media capable of being rendered by a display device a speaker system a computing device a mobile device etc. Under this scenario the content service may be a cloud service or any other resource associated with the event host.

In one embodiment the evaluation module evaluates the response of users to the content retrieved by the content retrieval module and subsequently rendered by the sensing device . The evaluation may be performed against criteria established by the event host or content provider for indicating the effectiveness of the content rendered. Per the criteria the presence platform may evaluate a current response behavior of the user to the rendered content and generate evaluation report results. For example the criteria may specify a a duration of viewing interacting with or a combination thereof of the content b a purchase selection or a combination thereof of at least one of the items c a duration a path or a combination thereof of movement of the transmitting object the user or a combination thereof or d an arrival of the transmitting object the user or a combination thereof to a destination point associated with the event host or e a combination thereof during the event. Under this scenario the destination point may correspond to a preferred location of the event or venue thereof including a cart storage area a sales kiosk a checkout line a location of a sensing device a specific room an aisle a service counter an order area etc.

In one embodiment the evaluation module may operate in connection a reporting module to generate reports for indicating the evaluation results. The evaluation may be generated as one or more reports for use by the event host or content provider. In certain instances the report may be generated and sent to the event host or content service provider via the communication interface as a notification message an email communication or the like. Alternatively the reporting module may operate in connection with a user interface module for enabling the presentment of the report and results thereof to the event host or content service provider via a graphical user interface. In the latter case the reports may be generated in near real time for providing immediate feedback to the event host thus enabling the event host to make adjustments to the placement of one or more purchase items a mode of operations of the event the arrangement of the venue etc.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

In step of process the presence platform identifies a user associated with a presence signal transmitted by a transmitting object in use by the user during an event. The transmitting object may be any object featuring a transmitter for generating presence signals that can be carried or transported by the user during an event. In another step the platform initiates a rendering of content associated with the user an event host one or more items associated with the event host or a combination thereof at a sensing device that detects the presence signal. In another step the platform determines a response of the user to the content based on movement information location information transaction information or a combination thereof associated with the transmitting object the user or a combination thereof during the event.

In step of process the presence platform evaluates the response of the user against criteria established by the event host. The criteria may specify various rules or conditions for indicating a level of effectiveness of the response behavior of the user relative to the rendering of content. As noted previously the response the criteria or a combination thereof includes a a duration of viewing interacting with or a combination thereof of the content b a purchase selection or a combination thereof of at least one of the items c a duration a path or a combination thereof of movement of the transmitting object the user or a combination thereof or d an arrival of the transmitting object the user or a combination thereof to a destination point associated with the event host or e a combination thereof during the event.

In step of process the presence platform captures biometric information associated with the user during the event during an initial use of the transmitting object or a combination thereof. The biometric information includes facial characteristic information fingerprint information eye characteristic information voice information or a combination thereof. In another step the platform determines a match between the user and the user identifier based on the biometric information. Per step the presence platform associates the user identifier with the transmitting object based on the match. The associating includes assigning transmitting storing or a combination thereof of the user identifier to the transmitting object and the identifying of the user is based on the user identifier. By way of example the user identifier may correspond to a unique user identifier value e.g. UUID established per the specific presence signal transmission protocol employed by the transmitter of the transmitting object.

In step the presence platform determines history information associated with the user for specifying a a historic response of the user to the content other content or a combination thereof b a historic purchase selection or a combination thereof of an item associated with the content other content or a combination thereof c a historic movement of the user during the event another event or a combination thereof or d a combination thereof based on the match. As noted previously the rendering of the content is based on the history information. For example the content retrieved in association with the user may vary depending on the historic tendencies activities behaviors transaction patterns etc. wherein content determined best suited for inducing a favorable user action based on their history is preferred by the event host.

In step of process the presence platform assigns a new user identifier to the user based on the biometric information. In another step the platform associates the new user identifier with the transmitting object based on the assignment. As noted previously the new user identifier is assigned by the event host and the associating includes storing the new user identifier to the transmitting object. Assigning of the new user identifier may correspond to a first time use of the transmitting object by the user with respect to the event or event host.

In step of process the presence platform determines receipt of a presence signal by a sensing device from the transmitting object e.g. or transmitter thereof . In step the platform processes a timing information associated with the presence signal b proximity information associated with the sensing device the transmitting object or a combination thereof or c a combination thereof associated with the presence signal to determine the movement information location information or a combination thereof in association with the user. Hence as noted previously the presence signals may be analyzed by the platform to determine the user response and may include observing variations in certain user actions over time. Also the sensing device is positioned by the event host to detect the presence signal when the transmitting object the user or a combination thereof is within a predetermined proximity of the sensing device during the event.

In step the presence platform determines a device identifier associated with the sensing device the event host or a combination thereof based on receipt of the presence signal. In another step the platform retrieves the content based on a the movement information the location information the transaction information the user identifier or a combination thereof associated with the user b the device identifier c the event host or d a combination thereof. As noted previously the content is an advertisement an instruction media a transaction report or a combination thereof associated with at least one of the items the event host or a combination thereof and the sensing device is a display a point of sale system a media device a whiteboard or a combination thereof of the event host.

In when the user arrives at the store he proceeds to the shopping cart parking area in order to acquire a shopping cart . The shopping cart is configured with a transmitter for broadcasting presence signals for detection by sensing devices within the store that are within proximity to the user . In this case the transmitter is in an inactive or low power state pending an association between the user and the shopping cart transmitter . This corresponds to a period of time in which the transmitter does not broadcasting any presence signals nor is there any active monitoring and tracking of the response of the user to content per the presence platform .

As the user retrieves a shopping cart a camera system near the cart parking area captures an image of the user s face as represented by scan lines and . The presence platform may be configured to perform biometric analysis of the captured image independently or in conjunction with an in store biometric security system. Under this scenario the biometric analysis reveals a match between the user and an existing shopping history and profile for the user. In addition the platform determines an existing user identifier corresponding to the user. As a result the platform initiates transmission of the existing user identifier for this user to the transmitter . It is noted that this may correspond to transmission of an activation signal by the presence platform for placing the transmitter into an active state. Alternatively the platform may initiate a request for the camera device a security system not shown a point of sales terminal or other device associated with the event host to activate the transmitter .

In the user proceeds to walk down different aisles of the store to view the items available for purchase. One of the aisles features a display shelf which further presents different purchase items on different shelves. In addition some of the shelves feature presence detecting enabled display devices e.g. device along with an overhead display device positioned towards the end of the aisle. As the transmitter is now actively broadcasting presence signals e.g. radiating signals the display devices and detect the presence of the user within close range and alerts the presence platform . Once the user identifier is determined the platform initiates the retrieval of content related to the user .

Under this scenario the presence platform is able to determine per the user s existing profile that the user is a preferred customer in good standing has a tendency to purchase items in bulk and typically spends an average of 123.57 every time they visit the store. Based on this the content retrieved and subsequently caused to be rendered to the display device as the user proceeds down the aisle is a coupon for a 20 discount on purchase items . Intrigued by the offer the user stops for a duration of time x and inspects the items to decide if he wants to purchase them. He then places a quantity of the items into the shopping cart and proceeds towards the end of the display aisle where another display device presents an advertisement not shown for a related product available in the next aisle over. As in the case with the discount content the response of the user to the advertisement content rendered via display device is also monitored by the presence platform .

In the presence platform tracks the movement transactions and any other activities of the user during the shopping event. For example the movement of the user is represented by a line having a starting point corresponding a to shopping cart dispatch point D to an ending point E corresponding to the checkout area. In this example the user travels about various aisles some of which are equipped with display devices e.g. display device . The presence platform continuously analyzes the presence signals transmitted throughout the shopping event for the user . Resultantly the platform is able to track the starts and stops engaged by the user based on timestamp and time to signal information as exchanged between the transmitter and the sensing devices e.g. device . In addition the platform records which items or aisles seem to be of most interest to the user based on the level of activity of user with the content e.g. user responded to a touch screen input request or the duration of time spent in the aisle. Still further the platform may interact with the point of sales system at the checkout area E of the store for correlating purchase transactions with the various items aisles or destination points deemed of interest to the user .

For the purpose of illustration a dashed line is shown to depict a preferred movement of the user as established by the event host. In this scenario the route is preferred given the placement of the various display devices throughout the store the middle aisle corresponding to the dashed line representing the route where the presence signals may most likely result in the rendering of content for presentment to the user. In contrast the route taken by the user shows that the user ended up avoiding missing most of the sensing devices and therefore missed some content during their shopping. This activity may be monitored for the user as well as other users and generated into an evaluation report for subsequent review by the event host. Based on this phenomenon the event host may decide to change the placement of items along the various aisles to maximize the likelihood of popular items being viewed in connection with the display devices can adapt the placement of the display devices or the like. Hence it is noted that the persistent monitoring of the user shopping session enables post event analysis and refinement. In certain instances the report results may also be presented dynamically to the event host for enabling real time adjustments to be made.

In the interaction between the presence platform and the various systems and sensing devices of the store is depicted. In this case the camera system sends images or other biometric data to the presence platform for user identification or identifier assignment processing corresponding to step . Once the user identifier is determined or assigned the presence platform initiates transmittal of the user identifier to the corresponding transmitter that is to be employed by the user corresponding to step . In this example the transmitter is a beacon device for transmitting beacon signals.

As the user navigates about the venue e.g. store the beacon device continuously broadcasts beacon signals to the various sensing devices e.g. display placed throughout the event per step . In addition the beacon device may also send notification messages to the presence platform for indicating the current activity of the user including when the user is at the checkout area the activity or inactivity of the shopping cart etc. per step . It is noted in certain embodiments that the transmitter may also provide status information periodically to the presence platform directly for indicating a movement presence transactional occurrence or other activity of the user during the event.

In the case where the user makes a purchase of an item at checkout the point of sale system may be configured to send purchase detail and transaction information to the presence platform per step . This information may then be stored to the user profile as a transaction record in association with the specified user identifier. In addition the presence platform may generate an evaluation report based on the transaction results the movement patterns or other activities of the user as well as other users that visited the store for subsequent review by the event host.

In step the display device sends the user identifier specified per the beacon signal of step to the presence platform to initiate content retrieval. In response the platform submits a request for specific content to relate to the user and retrieves this content accordingly corresponding to steps and respectively. Once retrieved the presence platform sends the content to the requesting display device where it is rendered to the display for presentment to the user accordingly corresponding to step . Per this interaction the presence platform is able to manage the experience of the user as well as enable consistent evaluation of the user response by the event host.

The processes described herein for determining a level of effectiveness of a device action performed in response to the presence of a user may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to determine a level of effectiveness of a device action performed in response to the presence of a user. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

