---

title: Beverage production machines with multi-chambered basket units
abstract: Various beverage preparation machines having a multi-chambered basket unit are shown. The basket unit can be configured to accept multiple cartridge configurations. For example, some embodiments are configured to receive a first cartridge configuration in a first chamber of the basket unit and a second configuration in a second chamber of the basket unit. In various embodiments, the basket unit can rotate to allow selective accessibility of the first and second chambers. This can facilitate loading the cartridges into the appropriate chamber, such as loading the first cartridge configuration into the first chamber and the second cartridge configuration into the second chamber.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09439532&OS=09439532&RS=09439532
owner: Starbucks Corporation
number: 09439532
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140311
---
This application is related to at least U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 198 titled SINGLE SERVE BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINE which is filed on the same day as the present application U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 261 titled CARTRIDGE EJECTION SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SINGLE SERVE BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES which is filed on the same day as the present application U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 241 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH TAMPING ASSEMBLY which is filed on the same day as the present application U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 232 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH RESTRICTORS which is filed on the same day as the present application and U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 197 titled POD BASED RESTRICTORS AND METHODS which is filed on the same day as the present application. The entirety of each of the aforementioned applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to beverage machines and more specifically to beverage machines that can receive a cartridge such as a cartridge containing a single serving of an instant beverage component for producing a beverage.

Single serve beverage machines are devices that are designed to produce a single serving or sometimes a single cup of a desired beverage. In comparison to other types of beverage machines such as drip coffee makers having a multi cup carafe single serve beverage machines can enhance convenience by reducing the time to prepare the beverage.

Some single serve beverage machines use a cartridge or capsule containing one or more beverage components or precursors to produce the beverage. Generally such cartridges are received in the single serve beverage machine are used to produce the single serving of the beverage and are subsequently manually removed from the machine and discarded.

Various beverage preparation machines having multi chamber basket units are described below to illustrate various examples that may be employed to achieve one or more desired improvements. These examples are only illustrative and not intended in any way to restrict the general disclosure presented and the various aspects and features of the disclosure. The general principles described herein may be applied to embodiments and applications other than those detailed below without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Indeed the present embodiments are not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments shown but are to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed or suggested herein. Certain aspects advantages and features of the inventions have been described herein. It is not necessary that any or all such aspects advantages and features are achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment. Some embodiments may not achieve the advantages described herein but may achieve different advantages instead. Any structure feature or step in one example is contemplated to be used in place of or in addition to any structure feature or step of any other example. No features structure or step disclosed herein is essential or indispensable.

Certain single serve beverage machines can accept only a single type of cartridge. For example some such machines can use only cartridges having a certain configuration e.g. diameter height shape etc. . This can be problematic because variations in the cartridge configuration can be beneficial. Indeed in some instances one cartridge configuration may be suitable for preparing some beverages and another cartridge configuration may be suitable for preparing other beverages. For example it can be beneficial to prepare brewed drinks using different cartridge configurations which are useful for different brewing conditions e.g. different temperatures and or pressures . For example brewed coffee drinks and espresso coffee drinks can be produced using different cartridge configurations e.g. the espresso cartridge having a diameter that is less than a diameter of the brewed coffee cartridge a height that is greater than the brewed coffee cartridge and or being adapted to withstand higher pressures than the brewed coffee cartridge .

Accordingly some aspects of the present disclosure describe beverage preparation machines include a basket unit that is configured to accept multiple cartridge configurations. For example some embodiments are configured to receive a first cartridge configuration in a first chamber of the basket unit and a second configuration in a second chamber of the basket unit. In some variants the first chamber has a shape that substantially corresponds to the shape of the first cartridge and the second chamber has a shape that substantially corresponds to the shape of the second cartridge. In certain embodiments the first cartridge configuration is for preparing brewed coffee beverages and the second cartridge configuration is for preparing espresso coffee beverages. In some implementations the first cartridge configuration is for preparing beverages at a first pressure and the second cartridge configuration is for preparing beverages at a second pressure e.g. greater than the first pressure .

In various embodiments the first and second chambers are selectively accessible. This can facilitate loading the cartridges into the appropriate chamber e.g. loading the first cartridge configuration into the first chamber and the second cartridge configuration into the second chamber . In several embodiments the basket unit can be moved so that the first and second chambers can be selectively presented to and or accessed by a user. For example the basket unit can be rotated relative to a frame of the beverage machine so that the first or second chambers are selectively oriented generally upwardly and or near a top portion of the beverage preparation machine which can facilitate loading of a cartridge into the first or second chambers. In some embodiments rotation of the basket unit is driven by a movable e.g. rotatable collar which in turn can be driven by a motor and or gear train.

In accordance with some embodiments a machine for preparing beverages from cartridges includes a frame a basket unit and a rotatable collar. The basket unit can rotate in the frame. The basket unit can include a first chamber which can receive a first single serve cartridge configuration and a second chamber which can receive a second cartridge configuration. The second cartridge configuration can be the same or different from the first cartridge configuration. In some variants when one of the chambers is in a loading position the other of the chambers is in a non loading e.g. inverted position. The ratchet assembly can have a ratchet member a ratchet follower and a biasing member e.g. a spring . The ratchet member can be engaged with e.g. abut against the basket unit. The ratchet member can have an arm and a boss. The ratchet follower can be pivotally connected with the frame and can include a ramp. The biasing member can bias the ramp of the ratchet follower against the boss of the ratchet member. The rotatable collar can have a projection. In certain implementations during rotation of the collar the projection engages with the arm of the ratchet member which slides the boss of the ratchet member along the ramp of the ratchet follower and or rotates the basket unit. This can result in the chamber in the loading position being moved to the non loading e.g. inverted position and the chamber in the non loading position being moved to the loading position.

Certain variants of the machine include any one or any combination of any of the following. The first chamber can have a volume that is greater than a volume of the second chamber. The basket unit and the collar can be adapted to rotate about axes that are substantially perpendicular. The first chamber can receive cartridges for brewed coffee beverages and the second chamber can receive cartridges for espresso beverages.

In some implementations a machine for preparing a beverage from a cartridge includes a basket unit a ratchet assembly connected with the basket unit and a collar. The basket unit can have a first chamber for receiving a first single serve cartridge configuration and a second chamber for receiving a second cartridge configuration. The basket unit can rotate about an axis RAbetween a first chamber loading position and a second chamber loading position. In certain embodiments in the first chamber loading position the first chamber is positioned to facilitate loading the first cartridge and the second chamber is inverted. In some embodiments in the second chamber loading position the second chamber positioned to facilitate loading the second cartridge and the first chamber is inverted. The collar can rotate about an axis RA. In some variants rotation of the collar engages the collar with the ratchet assembly which causes the basket unit to rotate between the first chamber loading position and the second chamber loading position.

Certain variants of the machine include any one or any combination of any of the following. The axes RAand RAcan be substantially perpendicular. The axis RAcan be substantially vertical and the axis RAcan be substantially horizontal and pass through first and second sidewalls of the machine. The first chamber loading position can be such that the first chamber is generally upwardly oriented and the second chamber loading position can be such that the second chamber is generally upwardly oriented. The collar can have a projection. The ratchet assembly can include an arm. The projection can engage the arm. The collar can have a wing. The ratchet assembly can have a rib. The wing can engage the rib. In some implementations during normal operation of the machine e.g. preparing one or more single serve beverages from one or more cartridges the collar is rotatable in the clockwise and counterclockwise directions. The basket unit can have a first outlet in fluid communication with the first chamber and a second outlet in fluid communication with the second chamber. Certain embodiments include a dispensing assembly that can move e.g. rotate into and out of engagement with one of the first and second outlets. In some variants the dispensing assembly and one of the first and second chambers is in fluid communication during the engagement of the dispensing assembly and the one of the first and second outlets. In some variants of the machine the first chamber can receive cartridges for brewed coffee beverages and the second chamber can receive cartridges for espresso beverages. Certain implementations include one or more of the cartridges.

In some embodiments a machine for preparing a beverage from a cartridge has a frame a basket unit a ratchet assembly and a rotatable collar. The basket unit can be rotatable in the frame. The basket unit can have a first chamber for receiving a first single serve cartridge configuration and a second chamber for receiving a second single serve cartridge configuration. The basket unit can rotate between a first position e.g. in which the first chamber is oriented upwardly and a second position e.g. in which the second chamber is oriented upwardly . In some embodiments the ratchet assembly is connected e.g. directly or indirectly with the basket unit. The rotatable collar can engage the ratchet assembly. In various embodiments rotation of the collar in a first direction engages the collar with a first surface of the ratchet assembly. The first surface can be adapted e.g. shaped and or angled such that the collar slides along the first surface without rotating the basket unit from the first position to the second position. In some embodiments rotation of the collar in a second direction engages the collar with a second surface of the ratchet assembly. The second surface can be adapted such that the engagement with the collar rotates the ratchet assembly which can cause the basket unit to rotate from the first position to the second position.

Some embodiments of the machine include any one or any combination of any of the following. The basket unit can rotate less than about 45 when the collar rotates in the first direction. The basket unit can rotate at least about 180 when the collar rotates in the second direction. The collar can have a projection. The ratchet assembly can have an arm. The projection can engage the arm during the rotation of the collar. The first chamber can receive cartridges for brewed coffee beverages and the second chamber can receive cartridges for espresso beverages. In some variants the basket unit and the collar are adapted to rotate about axes that are substantially perpendicular.

According to certain implementations a method of preparing an individual serving of a beverage includes rotating a basket unit to a first configuration e.g. in which a first chamber of the basket unit is located in a loading position . The method can include receiving a cartridge in the first chamber. Some variants of the method include introducing liquid into the cartridge in the first chamber to prepare the individual serving of the beverage. The method can include dispensing the individual serving of the beverage into a vessel. Some embodiments of the method include rotating the basket unit to a second configuration in which a second chamber of the basket unit is located in the loading position.

Certain embodiments of the method include any one or any combination of any of the following. Some variants include ejecting the cartridge during rotation of the basket unit to the second configuration. For example the cartridge can be ejected into a waste bin. The method can include rinsing at least one of an interior surface of the first chamber and a seal surface of the first chamber. The method can include disposing of residual beverage fluid in the first chamber into the waste bin. In some embodiments the method includes compressing the cartridge in the first chamber with a tamp assembly. Certain implementations of the method include rotating a collar in a first direction. Some embodiments include engaging the collar with a first surface of a ratchet assembly that is connected with the basket unit which can result in rotation of the basket unit between the first and second configurations. Some embodiments include rotating the collar in a second direction. Some embodiments include sliding the collar along a second surface of the ratchet assembly thereby not rotating the basket unit between the first and second configurations. In certain implementations of the method the collar rotates about an axis of rotation that is substantially perpendicular to an axis of rotation of the basket unit.

In some embodiments a machine for preparing beverages from cartridges has a basket unit and a rotation mechanism. The basket unit can have a first chamber for receiving a first single serve cartridge configuration and a second chamber for receiving a second cartridge configuration. The basket unit can rotate within the machine between a first configuration and a second configuration. In certain variants in the first configuration the first chamber is oriented in an upward direction and the second chamber is oriented in a downward direction. In certain variants in the second configuration the second chamber is oriented in the upward direction and the first chamber is orientated in the downward direction. The rotation mechanism can be coupled to the basket unit. The rotation mechanism can be adapted to rotate the basket unit from the first configuration to the second configuration.

According to some embodiments the machine can include any one or any combination of any of the following. Certain embodiments include a motor coupled with the rotation mechanism. In some embodiments after insertion of a first single serve cartridge into the first chamber the rotation mechanism rotates the basket unit at least about 5 degrees in a clockwise direction and at least about 5 degrees in a counterclockwise direction. This can facilitate settling of the contents of the first single serve cartridge. Some variants have a sensor for determining whether the basket unit is in the first configuration or the second configuration. Some embodiments include a controller that can receive an input from a user such as a command to begin operation.

The liquid reservoir can be located within or external to the housing . The liquid reservoir can be in fluid communication e.g. via tubing or pipes with the main housing to provide liquid e.g. water stored within the liquid reservoir to a chamber within the main housing where the beverage is prepared. In various embodiments the liquid is pre heated before entering the chamber. For example the liquid may be heated within a separate storage reservoir or within fluid supply lines as the liquid travels to the chamber. The amount of liquid e.g. water provided to the chamber from the liquid reservoir may be determined by the beverage recipe. The liquid reservoir may include a water level sensor configured to determine whether enough liquid is present in the liquid reservoir to prepare a requested beverage. The frother unit can cause the beverage to be dispensed with a froth of bubbles e.g. a frothed milk . After dispensing a brewed beverage into the cup the frothed liquid e.g. frothed milk can be poured into the beverage. The frother unit may include a control input to toggle the frothing on and off.

As shown in the main housing can include a frame that supports a beverage production assembly having a multi chambered basket unit . As also shown an upper portion of the main housing can include a top with an opening to facilitate the loading of a single serve beverage cartridge e.g. a single serve cartridge with a porous upper and or lower surface into the basket unit . The opening can be selectively opened and closed with a lid assembly . Additional details regarding single serve beverage cartridges and the lid assembly are disclosed in U.S. Application No. 61 786 072 filed Mar. 14 2013 and U.S. application Ser. No. 14 191 225 filed Feb. 26 2014 the entirety of each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

In some embodiments a single serve beverage cartridge includes a cartridge body holding a beverage precursor. The cartridge body may comprise any suitable material including but not limited to plastic metal wood bio degradable polymers etc. The cartridge body may be reusable recyclable biodegradable compostable commercially compostable etc. The beverage precursor may comprise for example coffee grounds tea leaves powdered milk milk juice tea coffee green coffee green coffee extract coffee extract flavorings other beverage materials etc.

In various embodiments the main housing includes an input and output unit . For example the input and output unit can include an indicator e.g. a light display dial or otherwise to indicate status information such as whether the main housing has power is operating requires maintenance etc. The input and output unit can include a user interface member e.g. a button or switch to provide instruction to the main housing such as a command to begin the beverage production process. The input and output unit can be connected with a memory and or a controller such as a microprocessor.

In some variants the input and output unit includes a reader. The reader can be configured to read a code e.g. optical code one dimensional bar code two dimensional bar code etc. and or a tag e.g. a radio frequency identification RFID tag or near field communication NFC tag on the cartridge or associated packaging. This can allow the machine to identify the type of beverage to be produced. For example reading a cartridge containing espresso coffee ingredients e.g. grounds can identify to the machine that an espresso beverage is to be produced. In several implementations the beverage production assembly is adjusted based on the type of beverage to be produced as is discussed in more detail below. Additional details regarding the reader as well as associated functions are disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 198 titled SINGLE SERVE BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINE which is filed on the same day as the present application the entirety of that application is hereby incorporated by reference.

In some implementations when the cartridge has been loaded into the basket unit and the lid assembly has been closed a beverage preparation process can begin. In some embodiments of the beverage preparation process liquid e.g. hot water is introduced into the cartridge to produce a beverage such as by a discharge head in the lid assembly . The beverage can exit the cartridge and be conveyed to the cup through portions of the main housing such as via a dispensing assembly .

Further schematic embodiments of the beverage production assembly are illustrated in . In a mode the basket unit can be positioned to receive a first cartridge type into a first chamber. The basket unit can be moved e.g. rotated by a rotation mechanism coupled with a motor. This can put the basket unit into another mode such as the basket unit being positioned to receive a second cartridge type into a second chamber and or being positioned to eject the first cartridge type from the first chamber. In some implementations the basket unit can be further moved e.g. rotated such as to return the basket unit to the position to receive the first cartridge type into the first chamber and or to eject the second cartridge type from the second chamber. The rotation of the basket unit can be controlled be a controller which can receive a signal from one or more sensors. In some embodiments the signal indicates the rotational position of the basket unit e.g. whether the first chamber or the second chamber is positioned to receive a cartridge . In certain embodiments the controller is configured to receive an input from a user such as the type of beverage the user desires to have produced and or the type of cartridge the user desires to position in the basket unit e.g. the first type or the second type .

An embodiment of the beverage production assembly is illustrated in . As noted above the beverage production assembly can include the multi chambered basket unit . The beverage production assembly can also include a ratchet assembly and or a collar . As discussed in further detail below engagement between the ratchet assembly and the collar can facilitate movement e.g. rotation of the basket unit . This can allow the basket unit to be selectively positioned to provide access to a desired chamber in the basket such as for loading a cartridge.

In some implementations the basket unit includes a body portion . The illustrated body portion has a generally cylindrical shape though many other shapes are contemplated as well. As shown the first chamber can be positioned at a first end of the generally cylindrical shape and the second chamber can be positioned at a second end of the generally cylindrical shape. In some embodiments the first and or second chambers protrude into the body portion e.g. are recessed within .

In certain variants the first and second chambers are configured to receive different types of cartridges. For example the first chamber can be configured to receive a first type of cartridge with a first size and or shape and the second chamber can be configured to receive a second type of cartridge a second size and or shape. In some embodiments the first chamber is adapted for producing a first type of beverage from beverage component or precursor in the first cartridge type and the second chamber is adapted for producing a second type of beverage from beverage component or precursor in the second cartridge type. For example first chamber can receive a first type of cartridge containing a beverage component or precursor for the production of a brewed coffee beverage and the second chamber can receive a second type of cartridge containing a beverage component or precursor for the production of an espresso coffee beverage e.g. latte macchiato cappuccino espresso shot etc. . In certain variants the first type of cartridge is for the production of an espresso coffee beverage and the second type of cartridge can be for the production of a brewed coffee beverage. In several implementations at least one of the chambers is for producing a coffee beverage such as a brewed coffee or espresso coffee beverage. In certain embodiments at least one of the cartridges is for producing a non coffee beverage such as tea hot chocolate fruit or vegetable based drink e.g. juice cider or the like or otherwise.

In embodiments in which at least one of chambers is for preparing brewed coffee that chamber may include structural features such as filtration elements strainers large exit apertures etc. configured to facilitate brewing of coffee grounds. In embodiments in which at least one of chambers is for preparing espresso coffee that chamber may be smaller in size e.g. diameter volume or otherwise than the brewed coffee chamber. In some implementations the chamber for preparing espresso coffee beverages may include structural features configured to prepare the espresso beverage at a higher pressure than the brewed coffee beverage for example the espresso coffee chamber may include very small exit apertures or may be configured to receive a tamp that compresses the grounds in the cartridge . In some embodiments the chamber for preparing espresso coffee beverages is configured to withstand at least about 130.5 psi about 9 bar of pressure and the chamber for preparing brewed coffee beverages is configured to withstand less than 130.5 psi of pressure e.g. about 5 psi of pressure . In some embodiments the chamber for preparing brewed coffee beverages is configured to withstand pressures of at least about 3 psi and or less than or equal to about 4 psi. In some implementations the chamber for preparing espresso coffee beverages is configured to withstand at least about 195 psi and or the chamber for preparing brewed coffee beverages is configured to withstand at least about 4.5 psi.

The cartridges to be received in each such respective chambers may also include different structural features to facilitate preparation of different types of beverages. For example a cartridge for use in preparing an espresso or other high pressure type beverage may be configured may to withstand a higher pressure being applied to its contents rather than a cartridge used for preparing a brewed type coffee or other low pressure type beverage in order to prepare an espresso beverage rather than a brewed coffee beverage. Thus an espresso or high pressure cartridge may include a stretchable lid for receiving a tamp that compresses the grounds in the cartridge may include smaller exit apertures or may be smaller in size while a brewed coffee or low pressure cartridge may include large or more exit apertures may include a non deformable or stretchable lid or may be larger in size.

Various embodiments of the basket unit can include one or more bracing elements. For example some embodiments of the basket unit can include one or more radially outwardly extending annular flanges . Certain variants have one or more cartridge support members such as shoulders or walls that surround a portion of the first and second chambers . For example the embodiment and configuration shown has a generally upwardly extending first wall bounding a portion of the first chamber and a generally downwardly extending second wall that bounds a portion of the second chamber . The cartridge support members can be configured to support a cartridge that is received in the chamber such as by engaging an outwardly extending lip or flange on the periphery of the cartridge not shown .

In certain implementations one or more of the cartridge support members include a sealing member such as a gasket made of plastic rubber or another elastomeric material. As shown the sealing member can be located at an end of the respective cartridge support member . In certain variants the sealing member extends generally vertically. In some embodiments a portion of the sealing member is received in a recess in the respective cartridge support member .

The sealing member can be configured to facilitate a seal e.g. a substantially liquid tight seal and or substantially gas tight seal between the respective cartridge support members and the cartridge. For example in certain implementations during the beverage production process the peripheral flange of the cartridge and one of the cartridge support members are pressed together thereby resiliently deforming the sealing member and providing a closure between the cartridge and the cartridge support member. In some embodiments a tamping mechanism e.g. in the lid assembly depresses the cartridge against one of the cartridge support members e.g. the cartridge support member oriented generally upwardly . Additional details regarding the tamping mechanism and the sealing member can be found in U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 241 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH TAMPING ASSEMBLY which is filed on the same day as the present application the entirety of that application is hereby incorporated by reference.

With continued reference to some embodiments of the basket unit includes features that can facilitate movement e.g. rotation of the basket unit . For example in the illustrated arrangement the basket unit can include first and second axle portions . As shown at least some of the axle portions can have a generally circular cross section which can aid in rotation about the axle portions. The axle portions can extend radially outwardly from and be rigidly attached to the body portion of the basket unit . In some embodiments the axle portions are positioned opposite each other around the periphery e.g. circumference of the body portion and or are aligned along a common axis RA. In various embodiments the axle portions can facilitate rotation of the basket unit about the axis RA and relative to other components of the main housing as described in further detail below. In some implementations the axle portions are formed with the body portion of the basket unit . In some variants the axle portions are part of a unitary axle member that extends through the basket unit . In some embodiments the axle member can be a separate component that fits into a mating cylindrical bore in the basket unit e.g. along the axis RA.

According to some implementations at least one of the axle portions includes a mating feature such as a groove notch tooth or otherwise. The mating feature can be configured to engage with a portion of the ratchet assembly . In some embodiments at least one of the axle portions includes a stop member such as a shoulder. The stop member can engage a mating portion e.g. a hole of the frame to inhibit or prevent translational movement of the basket unit relative to the frame along the axis RA.

In various embodiments the basket unit can include bottom portions that can define a bottom of each of the chambers. In some embodiments each of the bottom portions are configured to support a cartridge placed in the respective chamber. For example as shown in the bottom portions can include a series or radial struts and or rings or a perforated surface . In some embodiments one or more of the bottom portions can include a center support which can intersect with the radial struts and or one or more of the rings . In various embodiments each of the bottom portions include one or gaps or apertures which can allow liquid to flow therethrough to exit the respective chambers . In some embodiments each of the bottom portions are secured to the body portion with one or more threads fasteners e.g. screws adhesives or otherwise.

In some embodiments one or more of the bottom portions include a restriction assembly . The restriction assembly can be configured to facilitate creating or providing an increase in pressure in one or more of the chambers during the beverage production process. This can be beneficial in producing certain types of beverages. For example producing espresso at under elevated pressure conditions e.g. about at least 9 bar can yield an improved beverage. Additional details regarding restriction assemblies can be found in U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 232 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH RESTRICTORS which is filed on the same day as the present application the entirety of that application is hereby incorporated by reference.

With regard to each of the chambers can have at least one conduit configured to convey liquid to a corresponding outlet during the beverage production process. For example a first conduit can fluidly connect the first chamber with a first outlet and a second conduit can fluidly connect the second chamber with a second outlet . This can provide a distinct flow path for each of the chambers . As shown in some embodiments the outlets can extend outward from the body portion in generally opposite directions. For example the first outlet can extend from a first side of the basket unit and the second outlet can extend from generally the opposite side of the basket unit . In various embodiments the conduits are angled such that a given conduit is inclined generally downwardly when its associated chamber is oriented generally upwardly. For example in the first chamber is oriented generally upwardly and the first conduit is inclined generally downwardly. Such inclined conduits can encourage liquid e.g. a beverage to exit from the chambers . In some embodiments the first conduit and or the second conduit can be angled relative to horizontal at least about 1 5 10 20 30 45 values between the aforementioned values or otherwise.

In some embodiments one or more of the outlets extend generally perpendicular to the axis RA. In certain variants the outlets can extend generally parallel to or at a slight angle e.g. less than about 5 10 15 values between the aforementioned values or otherwise relative to the axis RA. This can facilitate engaging the one or more of the outlets with the dispensing assembly during a rotational operation of the basket unit as is discussed in more detail below. In some implementations each of the outlets include a mating member such as a flange . As shown in the side view of the flange can be curved. This can facilitate mating engagement with the dispensing assembly .

In some embodiments the basket unit includes features configured to indicate the position of the basket unit relative to the frame or other portions of the main housing . For example the basket unit can include one or more basket position elements and the main housing can include one or more basket position sensors not shown configured to detect the presence of the basket position elements . In some embodiments the basket position elements are magnetic markers and the basket position sensors are magnetic sensors. In certain variants the basket position elements are light reflective elements and the basket position sensors are configured to emit and detect a light signal e.g. a light signal reflected off of the basket position elements . In various implementations the basket position sensors are configured to determine the presence or non presence of at least one of the basket position elements . For example at least one of the basket position sensors can sense whether at least one of the basket position elements is in close proximity to and or is facing the basket position sensor.

In some embodiments the basket position elements are configured to indicate the position of the basket unit . For example in the embodiment illustrated in a first basket position element can be located on a first side of the cross sectional line D D and a second basket position element can be located on a second side of the cross sectional line D D. When the basket unit is rotated about the axis RA the position of the basket position elements changes as a function of which chamber is oriented generally upwardly. In some embodiments one or more basket position sensors can detect the location of the basket position elements . For example the basket position sensors can determine which side of the line D D that the basket position element that is facing the sensor is located on. This information can be provided to the controller in the machine to monitor the position of the basket unit . In some embodiments when a first sensor detects a first of the basket position elements the first sensor can send a signal the controller indicating that the first side is oriented generally upwardly and when a second sensor detects a second of the basket position elements the second sensor can send a signal to the controller indicating that the second side is oriented generally upwardly. This can facilitate determining a position of the basket and or whether and which of the chambers is in the loading position.

With reference to an embodiment of the ratchet member is illustrated. In some embodiments the ratchet member comprises a main portion that is configured to engage with the axle portion of the basket unit . For example the main portion can include a channel configured to receive a portion of the axle portion . In some implementations the main portion is configured to be received in and or to rotate relative to the frame see . In some embodiments the ratchet member includes mating features such as one or more notches teeth or otherwise. The mating features of the ratchet member can be configured to engage with the mating features of the basket unit . Such engagement can inhibit the ratchet member from rotating relative to the basket unit such that movement of the ratchet member can result in movement of the basket unit .

The ratchet member can include one or more collar engaging members such as arms and or ribs . In some embodiments the ratchet member includes at least one two three four five six seven or eight arms and or at least one two three four five six seven or eight ribs . For example the embodiment shown includes two arms and four ribs . In some implementations the arms are longitudinally spaced apart e.g. in a direction generally parallel to an axis of rotation of the ratchet member from a rear portion of the ratchet member . For example the arms can be located at a central portion of the ratchet member . This can allow portions of the collar to pass behind the arms as discussed in more detail below.

As discussed in more detail below when some variants are in certain configurations the ribs can engage with the collar . For example in some embodiments the ribs engage with the collar when a lid of the lid assembly is in the open position. This can inhibit unintended rotation of the basket unit . In certain variants when the lid is not in the open position the ribs do not engage with the collar thereby allowing rotation of the basket unit .

As illustrated in various configurations of the arms and ribs are contemplated. In certain embodiments the ribs have a longitudinal length LLthat is greater than a longitudinal length LLof the arms . As shown in some variants the ribs extend at least from the rear portion of the ratchet member to a front side of the arms . In some implementations a radial length RLof one of the arms is greater than the longitudinal length LLof that arm. In some embodiments the longitudinal length LLof one of the ribs is greater than the radial length RLof that rib. In certain variants the arms extend from the main portion of the ratchet member in generally opposite directions.

Each of the arms can have a first surface and a second surface . As shown in in certain variants the first surface is curved and the second surface is substantially straight. In some implementations a first length measured along the first surface is longer than a second length measured along the second surface . In various embodiments the first surface is configured to facilitate sliding movement of a portion e.g. a projection of the collar relative to the ratchet member and or the second surface is configured to engage and or move in conjunction with a portion of the collar as discussed in further detail below.

As illustrated in the ratchet member can include one or more follower engaging members such as projections or bosses . In certain implementations the bosses have a substantially circular cross sectional shape. As shown certain embodiments include a plurality of bosses that are spaced apart from each other. For example the illustrated embodiment includes a first boss and a second boss

With regard to an embodiment of a ratchet follower is shown. The ratchet follower can include an elongate shape. In some embodiments a first end of the ratchet follower is configured to be fixedly attached to a portion of the frame see with a fastener such as a screw rivet pin or otherwise. In some embodiments the ratchet follower is biased by the biasing member such as a tension spring leaf spring torsion spring or otherwise. For example a second end of the ratchet follower can connect to the biasing member . As shown the second end can include an arm that engages with a hook or loop at an end of the biasing member . In some embodiments a spring element such as a torsion or compression spring can be configured to interact on one or more surfaces on the ratchet follower so as to bias the follower in one rotational direction.

As shown the ratchet follower can include a cam following portion . In certain variants the cam following portion includes a first ramp and a second ramp . Relative to a longitudinal axis of the ratchet follower the first ramp can be at an angle and the second ramp can be at an angle . In various implementations the angle is greater than or equal to the angle . In some implementations the angle is less than or equal to the angle . In some variants the angles are about equal.

With regard to an embodiment of a collar is illustrated. The collar can include an annular body with a wall portion . In some embodiments the wall portion includes one or more cam teeth . For example the cam teeth can be positioned on a radially inner side of the wall portion . In some embodiments one or more of the cam teeth engage a cam track e.g. in the lid assembly see to facilitate securing the lid assembly and or for tamping of the cartridge. Further details in that regard can be found in U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 241 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH TAMPING ASSEMBLY which is filed on the same day as the present application.

As shown the collar can include a radially outwardly extending flange . In some embodiments the flange includes a circumferentially extending notch . Certain variants of the flange have one or more position indication features such as tick marks dimples or grooves. In some embodiments the main housing includes a rotation detection sensor not shown that is configured to detect the position indication features . The sensor can send a signal to the controller in the main housing which can use that signal to discern the rotational position of the collar relative to other portions of the main housing e.g. the basket unit .

In various embodiments the collar is configured to be rotatably driven by a motor not shown . For example the collar can include a plurality of gear teeth adapted to engage with a gear or gear train that engages with a shaft of the motor. The motor can drive the gear or gear train which in turn rotates the collar about the axis RA.

Several embodiments of the collar include one or more ratchet engaging members. For example certain embodiments of the collar include a leg with a projection e.g. a tab bump finger or otherwise . In some implementations the leg extends generally downward and or the projection extends radially outwardly. In some embodiments the collar includes a wing . In some embodiments the wing is positioned radially inward of the leg and or the projection . As discussed in further detail below in some variants to facilitate rotation of the basket unit the projection can be configured to engage with the arms of the ratchet member and or the wing can be configured to engage with the ribs of the ratchet member .

As noted above when some variants are in certain configurations the ribs can engage with the collar . For example when the lid is in the open position the collar can be rotatably positioned such that the wing and the ribs of the ratchet member are engaged. This engagement can inhibit unintended rotation of the basket unit . In certain variants when the lid is not in the open position the ribs do not engage with the wing thereby allowing rotation of the basket unit .

With reference to an embodiment of the beverage production assembly is illustrated. As previously noted the beverage production assembly can include the basket unit the ratchet assembly and the collar . In some variants the beverage production assembly includes a controller not shown configured to receive a signal from and a sensor not shown . In the embodiment illustrated the first chamber is oriented generally upwardly and the second chamber is oriented generally downwardly. This can facilitate loading of the first cartridge e.g. not shown into the first chamber provided that the lid assembly is open such as is shown in . As such the chamber that is oriented generally upwardly is said to be in the loading position. Also the cartridge that is oriented generally downwardly can be said to be in the inverted position. As will be discussed in detail below the basket unit of the beverage production assembly can be configured to rotate to selectively position one of the first and the second chambers in the loading position and or to selectively position the other of the first and the second chambers in the inverted position.

In some embodiments the collar is positioned and adapted such that cartridges can be passed through the collar for receipt into one of the chambers. For example as shown the collar can surround an upper portion of the basket unit while also allowing access to the chamber that is in the loading position. In certain variants an axial centerline of the collar is collinear with a line drawn between the centers of the first and second chambers .

As noted above the beverage production assembly can include a motor not shown . The motor can drive e.g. rotate the collar such as via a gear or gear train. In turn the collar can drive other components of the beverage production assembly. For example the collar can engage the ratcheting assembly and or the dispensing assembly which can result in movement of those components as well as other components e.g. the basket unit . As described in more detail below rotation of the collar about a rotational axis RAcan result in one or more of the following rotational movement of the ratchet member relative to the collar rotational movement of the basket unit relative to the collar pivoting movement of the ratchet follower energizing of the biasing member and pivoting movement of a component of the dispensing assembly relative to the collar . As also described below in various embodiments the projection and or the wing of the collar engages the ratchet member . In the state shown in however the projection and the wing are spaced apart from the ratchet member .

As illustrated the ratchet assembly can engage with the body portion of the multi chamber basket unit . In some embodiments one of the axle portions is partly received into the channel in the ratchet member . As shown the mating features e.g. teeth of the ratchet member can engage with the corresponding mating features e.g. grooves or notches in the axle portion of the basket unit . In certain implementations the engagement facilitates a generally rigid connection between the ratchet member and the body portion of the basket unit . In various embodiments the engagement of the ratchet member and the body portion inhibits rotation of the ratchet assembly and the basket unit relative to each other. The engagement can result in rotation of the ratchet assembly being transferred to the body portion of the basket unit . This can facilitate rotation of the basket unit as will be discussed in further detail below.

To facilitate clarity of presentation some components of the upper portion of the main housing are not shown in . For example the frame and lid assembly are not shown. Nevertheless some portions of the illustrated components may be connected to the frame . For example a first end of the ratchet follower can be hingedly connected to the frame such as with a fastener e.g. a screw . This can facilitate hinged movement of a portion of the ratchet follower relative to the frame other portions of the ratchet assembly or otherwise. In some embodiments the first end of the ratchet follower is pinned to the frame and the second end of the ratchet follower is able to pivot about the first end .

As previously discussed the arm at the second end of the ratchet follower can be connected with the biasing member . As shown the biasing member can also be connected with a mount or fastener such as a hook or screw which in turn is connected with the frame. As such downward pivoting movement of the ratchet follower e.g. about the first end can energize the biasing member thereby producing a restoring force on the second end of the ratchet follower .

In various embodiments the pivoting member includes a passage . As discussed in further detail below the passage can convey liquid beverage from the basket unit to the catch member . When the pivoting member is not in a position to convey the beverage to the catch member it can be configured to inhibit dripping outside the machine . For example the pivoting member can be positioned such that the rear portion of the passage is inclined downward and or away from the catch member . This can inhibit or prevent liquid residue in the passage from flowing into the catch member and thus can reduce the chance of unintentional liquid discharge e.g. drips from the dispensing nozzle . In some embodiments when the pivoting member is not in a position to convey the beverage to the catch member it can be configured to route drips to a reservoir not shown such as a waste bin located below the basket unit .

In some embodiments rotation of the basket unit can aid in ejecting or otherwise removing a used or unwanted cartridge from one of the chambers . For example after a cartridge that was loaded into one of the chamber has been used to prepare a beverage that chamber can be rotated to eject the cartridge from the chamber. This is because as a result of the rotation the chamber that was in the loading position has been moved to a generally downwardly oriented position e.g. the inverted position thereby facilitating ejection e.g. by force of gravity or otherwise of the cartridge in that chamber. More details about cartridge ejection mechanisms and features can be found in U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 261 titled CARTRIDGE EJECTION SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SINGLE SERVE BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES which is filed on the same day as the present application the entirety of that application is hereby incorporated by reference. In certain embodiments after ejection of the cartridge from a chamber liquid e.g. water is introduced into that chamber to rinse away debris and or residual beverage. In certain such implementations an interior surface of the chamber e.g. a radially inwardly facing surface and or one of the sealing members can be rinsed with the introduced liquid.

As shown in the collar has rotated e.g. in a clockwise direction about the axis RAthat is generally perpendicular to the axis RAof rotation of the basket unit . This has engaged the projection of the collar with the arm of the ratchet member which has rotated about the axis RA e.g. in a counter clockwise direction . As previously noted because of the engagement of the mating features of the basket unit and the ratchet member rotation of the ratchet member can result in rotation of the basket unit as well. As such the rotation of the ratchet member has resulted in the basket unit being rotated about the axis RAas well. In some implementations the axis of rotation RApasses between sidewalls of the main housing e.g. in between a wall near the liquid reservoir and frother and a wall on the opposite side of the main housing . In certain variants the axis of rotation RApasses between a front and rear of the main housing .

As shown due to the rotation of the ratchet member the bosses on the ratchet member have been rotated relative to the ratchet follower . This rotation has resulted in one of the bosses being separated from the ramps of the ratchet follower and the other of the bosses being moved along the first ramp of the ratchet follower . As shown the boss is positioned at about an apex between the ramps . As will be discussed below with continued rotation of the collar and ratchet assembly the boss will pass the apex and begin to descend along the second ramp .

As shown the movement boss of the ratchet member along the ramp of the ratchet follower has resulted in the second end of the ratchet follower being pivoted e.g. generally downwardly relative to the first end of the ratchet follower . In some embodiments such movement of the second end of the ratchet follower is against the bias of the biasing member which tends to energize e.g. elongate the longitudinal length of the biasing member . For example in the position shown in the biasing member has an elongated length spanning from the fastener connected with frame to the arm of the ratchet follower . Such elongation of the biasing member can produce a biasing force such as a force encouraging the second end of the ratchet member generally upwardly.

With reference to the collar has been further rotated relative to . As shown the projection is no longer in engagement with the arm of the ratchet member . In some embodiments the wing on the collar engages one of the ribs on the ratchet member . In some variants further rotation of the collar about the rotational axis RAcan result in additional rotation of the ratchet member about the rotational axis RA which in turn can result in further rotation of the basket unit .

In some embodiments the biasing member can motivate at least one of the bosses on the ratchet member to traverse along e.g. slide relative to the second ramp . This is because the biasing force from the biasing member is encouraging the second end of the ratchet follower generally upwardly. That force can be transmitted through the ratchet follower to the engagement between the second ramp and the boss . As the second ramp is at an angle relative to the direction of the transmitted biasing force the boss can be encouraged to traverse e.g. slide down a portion of the second ramp . In some embodiments movement of the boss along the second ramp results in further rotation of the ratchet member and thus the basket unit . In some embodiments such rotation of the ratcheting member via the engagement of the boss and the second ramp rotates the ratchet member even when the projection and or wing of the collar are not engaged with the arm of the ratchet member .

As shown in as the basket unit nears the end of the rotational movement the boss that had been separated from the ratchet follower can engage the first ramp . This can aid in stabilizing the basket unit and or ratchet member and or can facilitate additional rotational movements as discussed in further detail below.

With regard to the beverage production assembly is shown in a state for dispensing a liquid beverage from the second chamber . In this state the dispensing assembly is in fluid communication with the second outlet port of the basket unit . In various embodiments a liquid e.g. water can be introduced into a cartridge not shown located in the second chamber to produce the beverage. The beverage can exit the cartridge e.g. via a porous bottom pass through the bottom of the second chamber through the second conduit and into the passage in the pivoting member . In some embodiments during the dispensing process the beverage flows from the basket unit to the dispensing assembly in a direction substantially perpendicular to the axis RA. In certain variants during the dispensing process the beverage flows from the basket unit to the dispensing assembly in a direction that is not perpendicular to e.g. generally parallel with the axis RA.

In some embodiments whether the dispensing assembly is in fluid communication with the basket unit is a function of the position of the collar . For example in the illustrated embodiment the collar has rotated into a position such that the notch in the flange of the collar is circumferentially aligned with the cam on the pivoting member of the dispensing assembly . This can result in the bias of the biasing member e.g. torsional spring encouraging the cam into the notch which in turn can result in the pivoting member moving toward the second outlet port of the basket unit . This can provide a fluid communication path between the second outlet port of the basket and the passage of the pivoting member of the dispensing assembly . As shown in certain embodiments the pivoting member can receive some or all of the second outlet port of the basket . As shown the pivoting member is angled downward thereby allowing the liquid to flow down the passage and into the catch member by force of gravity. The liquid can flow from the catch member to the dispensing nozzle for dispensing to the cup or other vessel.

In certain variants the catch member is configured to encourage the liquid to flow toward and out of the dispensing nozzle . For example the catch member can be configured to pivot such that an end of the catch member with the dispensing nozzle is lower than an opposite end of the catch member . For example the catch member can include hinge features such as pins that pivotally connect with other portions of the machine such as with the frame . During the dispensing portion of the beverage preparation process the catch member can be pivoted e.g. by an actuator or other mechanism such that gravity encourages the liquid to flow toward and through the dispensing nozzle .

In some implementations the catch member can include a funnel member in communication with the pivoting member during dispensing of the beverage. The funnel member can be inclined with a lower portion at or near an inlet of the dispensing nozzle thereby allowing gravity to encourage the liquid to flow toward and out of the dispensing nozzle . In certain embodiments because the funnel member is configured to encourage flow of the liquid in the funnel member during dispensation to the cup the funnel member can reduce the likelihood of liquid remaining in the catch member . This can inhibit or avoid dripping from the funnel member and or the dispensing nozzle . In some embodiments the funnel member includes a low friction material and or coating which can reduce the chance and or amount of liquid residue remaining in the funnel member .

For example as shown in rotational movement of the collar engages the projection of the leg of the collar with the arm of the ratchet member . This can transfer the rotational movement of the collar along the axis RAinto rotational movement of the ratchet assembly and basket unit along the axis RA. The rotation of the ratchet member can rotate the bosses on the ratchet member relative to the ratchet follower . This results in at least one of the bosses e.g. the second boss sliding up the first ramp which encourages the ratchet follower to move against the bias of the biasing member .

As shown in further rotation of the collar engages the wing of the collar against the rib of the ratchet assembly . Such engagement can further rotate the ratchet assembly and basket unit . Moreover further rotation of the collar and thus the ratchet member can cause the boss can slide down the second ramp which allows the biasing member to move e.g. pivot the ratchet follower such as pivoting generally upwardly.

In some embodiments rotation of the ratchet assembly and basket unit are further encouraged by the bias of the biasing member on the second end of the ratchet follower and or because of the engagement between at least one of the bosses on the ratchet assembly and at least one of the ramps on the ratchet follower . For example as shown in even when the collar is not engaged with the ratchet member the cam action between at least one of the bosses on the ratchet assembly and at least one of the incline ramps on the ratchet follower e.g. because of the biasing force provided by the biasing member can facilitate rotation of the ratchet member and basket unit .

With reference to the basket unit is shown in a state at the conclusion of the rotational operation of . In this state the basket unit has returned to the state of . For example the first chamber is oriented generally upwardly and the second chamber is oriented generally downwardly. As such between the basket unit has made approximately a second half of a complete revolution. Moreover between the basket unit has made approximately one complete revolution also called a full flip .

Similar to the description above in connection with liquid e.g. water can be introduced into a cartridge in the first chamber to produce a beverage. The beverage can exit the cartridge e.g. via a porous bottom flow through the bottom of the chamber and pass through the first conduit to the first outlet . The beverage can continue through the passage in the pivoting member of the dispensing assembly and into the catch member . As shown the pivoting member can be angled downward which can encourage the flow of beverage through the passage by force of gravity. The beverage can flow out of the dispensing nozzle into the cup or other vessel.

In certain implementations the beverage production assembly can perform a reset operation. During the reset operation the rotational direction of the collar is reversed. For example the collar can rotate a first direction e.g. clockwise during the flip operations e.g. the half flip of the half flip of and or the full flip of and can rotate a second direction e.g. counterclockwise during the reset operation. illustrates an example of the collar undergoing reverse rotation.

In various implementations during the reverse rotation of the collar engagement between certain components can be reduced or avoided. This can facilitate circumferentially positioning the collar relative to the ratchet member without flipping the basket unit . For example in some embodiments during the reverse rotation of the collar the wing can rotate beyond the ratchet member without flipping the basket unit . In some embodiments the wing of the collar is configured to pass behind the arm of the ratchet assembly e.g. between the arm and the basket unit thereby not engaging the arm . In some embodiments the wing can pass over e.g. be vertically spaced apart from the rib of the ratchet assembly thereby not engaging the rib .

As illustrated in with still further reverse rotation of the collar the projection on the collar can disengage from the arm on the ratchet member . As such the projection of the collar no longer presents an interference with the arm of the ratchet member . In some such instances the biasing member encourages movement of the ratchet follower e.g. generally upward which results in the boss sliding down the second ramp . This results in the ratchet member rotating back to its rest position as shown. The collar thus has rotated beyond the ratchet member without flipping the basket unit . As shown after the reset operation the projection on the collar is positioned so as to readily engage the second surface of the arm of the ratchet member . Thus the projection can be positioned to execute a flip operation as discussed above in connection with .

As noted above embodiments of the beverage production assembly can produce multiple types of beverages. In some embodiments the first chamber is adapted for producing a first type of beverage type and the second chamber is adapted for producing a second beverage type. For example the first chamber in the basket unit can be for producing brewed coffee beverages and the second chamber can be for producing espresso beverages. The rotation of the basket unit can facilitate producing such a multiplicity of beverage types and or can transition the beverage production assembly from being configured to produce one beverage type to being configured to produce another beverage type.

For example in the situation that the first cartridge is in the loading position yet the beverage desired is prepared using the second chamber the basket unit can rotate e.g. at least about 170 to bring the second chamber to the loading position. An example of such a rotational operation is shown above in in which the first chamber rotates from the top portion to the bottom portion of the basket unit e.g. from the loading position to the inverted position and the second chamber rotates from the bottom portion to the top portion of the basket unit e.g. from the inverted position to the loading position . The second chamber can thus be positioned for loading of the desired cartridge after which the beverage production process can proceed.

In the reverse situation in which the second cartridge is in the loading position yet the beverage desired is prepared using the first chamber e.g. a brewed coffee drink the basket unit can rotate e.g. at least about 180 to bring the first chamber to the loading position. Such a rotational operation is shown above in in which the second chamber rotates from the loading position to the inverted position and the first chamber rotates from the inverted position to the loading position. The first chamber can thus be positioned for loading of the desired cartridge after which the beverage production process can proceed.

In several embodiments when rotating from one chamber being in the loading position to another chamber being in the loading position the basket unit rotates at least about 45 90 135 170 175 180 185 190 225 270 values between the aforementioned values or otherwise.

As noted above after a cartridge has been loaded in the chamber that is appropriate for the type of beverage to be made the beverage production process can proceed. After that process has occurred and the beverage has been dispensed the beverage production assembly can be moved into a configuration to expediently execute another rotation of the basket unit . This can reduce the time a user may have to wait before being able to load another cartridge into the basket unit . For example after the dispensing operations shown in the projection on the collar can be rotated so as to be positioned at or near the ratchet member such as the position of the collar shown in . This can aid in readying the beverage production assembly for a further rotational operation.

In certain situations a user may wish to produce multiple consecutive beverages of the same type. For example a first brewed coffee beverage may have been produced then the user may scan e.g. by providing the cartridge to the reader another cartridge to instruct the machine to produce another brewed coffee beverage. In some embodiments when that situation occurs the basket unit makes a two half rotations also called one full rotation of the first chamber after the first beverage has been produced and dispensed. The first half rotation includes moving the first chamber from the loading position to the inverted position as is shown in . The second half rotation includes moving the first chamber from the inverted position to the loading position as is shown in .

In some embodiments for the first half rotation the projection on the collar is already in position for engaging the ratchet member . For example as such was previously discussed after preparing the first brewed coffee beverage the projection can be rotated so as to be positioned at or near the ratchet member such as the position of the collar shown in . Thus the projection can be positioned to readily engage the ratchet member to execute the first half rotation.

As shown in at the conclusion of the first half rotation the projection is not in a position to readily engage the ratchet member to execute a rotation of the basket unit . To alleviate this in some embodiments the collar rotates as normal to put the projection in position of . Certain other embodiments reverse the rotation of the collar with the reset operation as previously discussed and shown in . This can decrease the circumferential distance traveled by the projection and or the amount of time required to put the projection in position to readily engage the ratchet member to execute the second half rotation of the basket unit .

In various embodiments the two half or one full rotation operation described above can aid in ejecting or otherwise removing the cartridge in the first chamber . For example when the first chamber is oriented downward e.g. in the inverted position or otherwise tilted downward the cartridge can be encouraged out of the chamber by force of gravity. As such when the first chamber is returned to the loading position it can be configured to accept another cartridge.

Although the example above involves preparing consecutive beverages using the first chamber similar operations could be used to prepare consecutive beverages using the second chamber . For example in the first half rotation the second chamber can be rotated from the loading position to the inverted position as is shown in . During the second half rotation the first chamber can be rotated from the inverted position to the loading position as is shown in . In some embodiments after the first half rotation the direction of rotation of the collar is reversed with the reset operation as previously discussed and shown in . This can put the projection in a position to engage the ratchet member to execute the second half rotation. This can return the second chamber to the loading position thereby positioning the second chamber to accept another cartridge.

In some embodiments the beverage production assembly is configured to facilitate settling e.g. a generally equally distribution of the contents of a cartridge inserted into the basket unit . In certain instances such as if the cartridge was stored on its side more coffee grounds may be located on one side of the cartridge than the other. This can hinder beverage production such as by reducing extraction efficiency. As such it can be desirable to distribute the grounds generally equally on the bottom of the cartridge. In some embodiments after insertion of a cartridge into one of the chambers the basket unit is rotated back and forth clockwise and counterclockwise to encourage settling of the contents of the cartridge. For example the basket unit can be rotated in a clockwise direction less than or equal to about 45 30 25 20 15 10 5 3 1 values between the aforementioned values or otherwise. The basket unit can be rotated in a counterclockwise direction less than or equal to about 45 30 25 20 15 10 5 3 1 values between the aforementioned values or otherwise. In some embodiments during the settling operation the basket unit is rotated between about 10 and about 20 in the counterclockwise direction and between about 10 and about 20 in the clockwise direction. In some embodiments during the settling operation the basket unit is rotated less than about 5 in the counterclockwise direction and less than about 5 in the clockwise direction. In several embodiments during the settling operation the basket unit is not rotated a sufficient amount to flip the basket unit . In various implementations after the settling operation the basket unit is returned to a generally level position e.g. as shown in and the brewing process commences.

With regard to an illustrative alternative dispensing assembly A is shown. The dispensing assembly A can include any of the features of the dispensing assembly . The dispensing assembly A can be used with any embodiment of the beverage production assembly .

As illustrated the dispensing assembly A includes a pivoting member with a passage A and a nozzle A. The passage A can be bounded on one or more sides by walls which can aid in containing liquid flow. The passage A can be angled downwardly to facilitate liquid flow to the nozzle A by gravity. The dispensing assembly A can be rotatably connected to the housing such as by a support column A.

In various embodiments the dispensing assembly A can be selectively rotated into and out of engagement with the outlet ports of the basket unit . For example as shown in the pivoting member A can be rotated out of engagement with the basket unit . This can place the dispensing assembly A in a position that does not interfere with the basket unit during rotation of the basket unit e.g. flipping of the basket unit . As shown in the pivoting member A can be rotated into engagement with the basket unit . This can provide a fluid communication path for liquid e.g. beverage to exit the basket unit e.g. via one of the outlet ports and to flow to the nozzle A for dispensing. In some embodiments the pivoting member A rotates along an axis that is generally parallel with the axis RAand or generally perpendicular with the axis RA.

In certain embodiments the dispensing assembly A engages with the collar . For example the pivoting member A can include features e.g. one or more cams that engage with the collar e.g. one or more tabs or slots . In some embodiments rotation of the collar to a first circumferential position results in the pivoting member A swinging into engagement with one of the outlet ports of the basket unit . In certain variants rotation of the collar to a second circumferential position results in the pivoting member A swinging out of engagement with one of the outlet ports of the basket unit . A biasing member not shown such as a spring can bias the dispensing assembly A toward the non engaged position.

As shown the ratchet assembly A can include a ratchet member A and a ratchet follower A. Some embodiments also include a biasing member not shown . The ratchet member A can be configured to engage with the basket unit . For example the ratchet member A can include one or more mating features A such as a projection with a non circular cross section that is configured to engage a corresponding recess in the axle portion of the basket unit .

The ratchet member A can include a first portion A and a second portion A. In some embodiments the first and second portions A A are spaced apart by a cam member A. As shown the ratchet follower A can be received into the space between the first and second portions A A. The biasing member can bias the ratchet follower A into engagement with the cam member A.

As shown in the cross sectional view of the cam member A can have an elongate cross sectional shape. The cam member A can have a length Lthat is greater than its width W. In certain variants the ratio of length Lto width Wis at least about 2 1 3 1 4 1 5 1 values between the aforementioned values or otherwise. In some implementations the cam member A has rounded or chamfered ends which can facilitate engagement with the ratchet follower A.

During rotation of the ratchet assembly A with the collar the ratchet member A can be rotated. This can result in the cam member A rotating with respect to the ratchet follower A. Similar to the previously described way that rotation of the bosses deflects the ratchet follower A rotation of the cam member A deflects the ratchet follower A. This in turn can energize the biasing member.

In certain implementations when the collar has rotated sufficiently so as to disengage with the ratchet member A then the cam member A has rotated to a position such that the rounded or chamfered ends are engaged with the ratchet follower A. In certain embodiments when the collar has rotated out of engagement with the ratchet member A a region of engagement between the cam member A and the ratchet follower A has crossed over a longitudinal centerline CLof the cam member A. In some variants after the collar has rotated out of engagement with the ratchet member A the bias of the biasing member encourages the ratchet follower A against the cam member A which can cause the cam member A to slide with respect to the ratchet follower A. This can result in the ratchet member A being further rotated e.g. by the bias of the basing member acting on the cam member A via the ratchet follower A . For example the region of engagement between the cam member A and the ratchet follower A can slide down the rounded or chamfered end which can cause further rotation of the ratchet member A. In various implementations rotation of the cam member A also rotates the ratchet member A and basket unit a corresponding amount.

Thus according to some embodiments the engagement between the collar and the ratchet member A provides a first amount of rotation of the basket unit and the bias of the basing member acting on the cam member A via the ratchet follower A provides a second amount of rotation of the basket unit . In various embodiments total of the first amount of rotation and the second amount of rotation of the basket unit is at least about 170 and or less than or equal to about 190 . Such total rotation is preferably equal to about 180 .

The beverage production assembly can include a multi chambered basket unit . The basket unit includes a first chamber not shown and a second chamber which can be generally opposite the first chamber. As shown a lid assembly can be opened to facilitate loading of a cartridge into the chamber . As shown in the lid assembly can be closed for the beverage preparation process.

In some embodiments the basket unit can rotate to selectively orient one of the first and second chambers to the loading position. For example illustrates the second chamber in a loading position. In various embodiments the basket unit is configured to rotate about one or more axle portions . In certain implementations the basket unit can rotate about an axis of rotation RAthat passes between a front and rear wall of the main housing . For example the axis RAcan pass through a generally vertical front face of the main housing . In certain variants during the dispensing process the beverage flows from the basket unit to a dispensing assembly in a direction that is not perpendicular to e.g. parallel with the axis RA. For example the basket unit can include first conduit not shown in fluid communication with the first chamber and a second conduit not shown in fluid communication with the second chamber . The conduits can pass through the one or more axle portions .

As illustrated an outlet of at least one of the conduits can engage with the dispensing assembly . The dispensing assembly can include a pivoting member e.g. an anti drip unit catch member and outlet . The pivoting member can be pivotally connected with the catch member or a frame such as by a pinned connection.

In some variants the basket unit is configured to translate such as moving substantially vertically. As shown the basket unit is connected with a cam collar . The cam collar in turn can engage with a collar not shown which can be rotated e.g. by a motor and or gearing about the axis RA. The engagement between the collar and cam collar can provide substantially vertical translation of the basket unit such as between the upper position of and the lower position of .

In certain embodiments the cam collar has one or more cam tracks that are configured to receive one or more cam teeth not shown on the collar . The cam tracks can include angled tracks which form a portion of a helix on a periphery of the collar . The cam tracks can also include non angled tracks which extend around a portion of the periphery of the collar generally parallel to a circumferential axis of the collar. As shown the angled tracks and non angled tracks can intersect. For example the cam tracks can include an angled track portion and then a non angled track portion

During rotation of the collar about the axis RA the cam teeth travel along the cam tracks . When the teeth travel along the angled tracks the cam collar is drawn toward or away from the collar depending on the direction of rotation of the collar . Because the cam collar is connected with the basket unit such vertical movement of the cam collar also vertically moves the basket unit . In some implementations the basket unit translates vertically e.g. downward during rotation of the basket unit about the axis RA.

Vertical movement can be beneficial for example to inhibit or prevent dripping. For example as shown in when the basket unit is moved downward the pivoting member can pivot away from the catch member . This can direct liquid e.g. residual beverage liquid toward a waste bin or other location and thus decrease the chance of that liquid dripping outside the main housing . In some embodiments the pivoting member is biased e.g. toward the position shown in .

In the embodiment illustrated the collar and the cam collar is shown at least partly below the basket unit . However in some embodiments the collar and the cam collar are located at least partly above the basket unit . For example the collar can be positioned similarly to what is shown in and the cam collar can be located in the lid assembly . In some implementations the lid assembly receives a portion of the cam collar .

In certain variants the cam collar is connected with a tamp assembly rather than or in addition to the basket unit . Translation of the cam collar can result in translation of the tamp assembly relative to a cartridge in one of the chambers. This can facilitate compressing beverage component or precursor components e.g. espresso grounds in the cartridge. Translation of certain components in a main housing as well as tamping functionality is discussed in more detail in U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 241 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH TAMPING ASSEMBLY which is filed on the same day as the present application as noted above that application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

As shown the beverage production assembly can include a multi chambered basket unit ratchet assembly and or collar . The collar can engage with a lid portion . For example one of the collar and the lid portion can include one or more teeth that can be received in one or more cam tracks in the other of the collar and the lid portion . As shown a portion of the cam tracks are at an angle relative to an axis of rotation of the collar . In some variants the cam tracks form a portion of a substantially helical shape.

In certain embodiments rotation of the collar can result in the teeth moving along the tracks . Due to the angle of the cam tracks this can cause translational movement between the collar and the lid portion . In some implementations the collar is generally translationarily stationary relative to the housing and the lid portion translates. In certain implementations the lid portion is generally translationarily stationary relative to the housing and the collar translates. In some variants both the collar and the lid portion translate relative to each other and to the housing .

In certain variants the lid portion is connected with a tamp assembly. In various embodiments the translation of the collar and or the lid portion can cause the tamp assembly to move relative to e.g. into and or out of engagement with a cartridge in one of the chambers. This can facilitate compressing beverage component or precursor components e.g. espresso grounds in the cartridge. As noted above translation of certain components in a main housing as well as tamping functionality is discussed in more detail in U.S. application Ser. No. 14 205 241 titled BEVERAGE PRODUCTION MACHINES AND METHODS WITH TAMPING ASSEMBLY which is filed on the same day as the present application that application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

With continued reference to the beverage production assembly can include a discharge assembly . As shown the discharge assembly can include a conduit catch member and outlet . The conduit can be in fluid communication with chambers of the basket unit . For example the basket unit can include one or more internal passages not shown that connect the chambers with the conduit .

In some implementations the conduit is flexible and or resilient. In certain embodiments this can aid in translation of the basket unit . For example in some embodiments in which the basket unit can translate relative to the outlet the conduit can flex to maintain a liquid flow path between the basket unit and the outlet .

In certain embodiments the flexible and or resilient conduit can facilitate closing a fluid flow path between the outlet and the chambers of the basket unit . For example certain embodiments include one or more pinch members not shown that can pinch the conduit thereby selectively reducing the size of or eliminating the fluid flow path between the outlet and the chambers of the basket unit . In some embodiments at least one of the pinch members engages with the collar such that rotation of the collar can engage and or disengage the pinch members with the collar . For example the pinch members can include gears that engage with the teeth on the collar . In some implementations one of the pinch members is engaged with another of the pinch members in a master slave gear relationship.

Several embodiments include a waste bin unit for collecting and or storing cartridges such as used or unwanted cartridges. The waste bin unit can be selectively received in and removable from the housing . This can facilitate removing and or discarding cartridges from the machine .

As illustrated in the waste bin unit can include a first receptacle configured to receive the cartridges. Certain embodiments include a plurality of receptacles such as a first receptacle and a second receptacle . In certain variants the second receptacle is located underneath the first receptacle . In some embodiments the first receptacle is separable from the second receptacle .

The first receptacle can be configured to receive a cartridge e.g. a spent used or discarded cartridge from the single serve brewing machine. In some implementations the first receptacle may comprise a porous e.g. perforated floor. The porous floor can be configured to retain the cartridge body and or to permit excess water beverage and or any stray beverage precursor material to pass through e.g. to enter the second receptacle . Such a drainage system may be beneficial to limit molding odor and other negative aspects of storing wet used cartridges. The porous floor may comprise for example mesh netting a single opening a plurality of openings etc. In some variations the openings may range from 0.1 mm to 5 mm 0.5 mm to 5 mm 1 mm to 5 mm 0.1 mm to 2 mm 0.5 mm to 2 mm or 1 mm to 2 mm such that liquid is permitted to pass through but the cartridge body and beverage precursor material is substantially retained. In some variations the openings may range from 1 mm to 20 mm 1 mm to 10 mm 1 mm to 5 mm 3 mm to 20 mm 3 mm to 10 mm 3 mm to 5 mm 5 mm to 20 mm or 5 mm to 10 mm to permit beverage precursor material to pass through. In some embodiments the porous floor comprises the same material as the first receptacle. In other implementations the perforated floor comprises a different material than the first receptacle. In some embodiments the porous floor and the reminder of the first receptacle e.g. walls are formed as a single unitary component. In other variants the porous floor and the reminder of the first receptacle are formed as separate components that are subsequently assembled together.

In some embodiments the waste bin unit includes a removal mechanism. This can assist the user in disassociating the waste bin unit from the beverage machine. In some embodiments the removal mechanism is configured to tilt one or more of the receptacles such as tilting the first and or second receptacles generally toward a front of the machine .

In some embodiments the waste bin unit includes a compression device not shown to compress the contents of one or more of the receptacles. For example the machine can include a piston that extends into the first and or second receptacle to apply compressive force to cartridges located therein. This can reduce the amount of volume of the receptacle that is occupied by discarded cartridges which can increase the number of cartridges the receptacle is able to contain can reduce the frequency that the receptacle needs to be emptied and or can facilitate disassociating the waste bin unit from the beverage machine.

In certain embodiments the waste bin unit includes a sensing mechanism not shown configured to determine a status of one or more of the receptacles. For example the sensing mechanism can include a position sensor to monitor whether one or both of the receptacles are properly engaged in the machine . In some implementations the sensing mechanism includes a sensor for monitoring the amount or level of material in one or both of the receptacles. For example the sensing mechanism can include a sensor e.g. a proximity sensor weight sensor or otherwise configured to send a signal to a controller of the machine when a characteristic e.g. height or weight of the materials in one or more of the receptacles exceeds a certain amount.

Various embodiments and examples of beverage preparation machines and methods including multi chamber basket units have been described herein. Although certain embodiments and examples have been described herein with respect to cartridges for producing coffee beverages the basket units and chambers described herein can be configured to receive cartridges containing other particulate materials or components for producing many other types of beverages such as a chocolate based product e.g. hot cocoa tea juice soup broth and other beverages. Further although some embodiments have been disclosed in which liquid is introduced into the cartridge the introduction of other phases is contemplated. For example in some embodiments steam or a combination of steam and liquid water is introduced into the cartridge. Additionally although certain embodiments have been disclosed that include a single beverage component or precursor the term beverage component or precursor is not limited to only a single component. Rather the beverage component or precursor can comprise one component e.g. coffee or a plurality of components e.g. coffee and a sweetener .

As used herein the term beverage in addition to having its ordinary meaning can include among other things any liquid or substantially liquid substance or product having a flowing quality such as juices coffee beverages teas frozen yogurt beer wine cocktails liqueurs spirits cider soft drinks flavored water energy drinks soups broths combinations of the same or the like. The term cartridge as used herein shall be given its ordinary and customary meaning and includes among other things cartridges capsules cups pods pucks pads and the like whether or not such cartridge is capable of being pierced or otherwise ruptured in order to form an inlet and or outlet for the cartridge.

Although this disclosure describes certain embodiments and examples of beverage preparation machines it will be understood by those skilled in the art that many aspects of the methods and devices shown and described in the present disclosure may be differently combined and or modified to form still further embodiments or acceptable examples. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure. Indeed a wide variety of designs and approaches are possible and are within the scope of this disclosure. No feature structure or step disclosed herein is essential or indispensable. Moreover while illustrative embodiments have been described herein the scope of any and all embodiments having equivalent elements modifications omissions combinations e.g. of aspects across various embodiments adaptations and or alterations as would be appreciated by those in the art based on the present disclosure. Although there may be some embodiments within the scope of this disclosure that are not expressly recited above or elsewhere herein the present disclosure contemplates and includes all embodiments within the scope of what this disclosure shows and describes. Further this disclosure contemplates and includes embodiments comprising any combination of any structure material step or other feature disclosed anywhere herein with any other structure material step or other feature disclosed anywhere herein.

Furthermore certain features that are described in this disclosure in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the combination may be claimed as a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Moreover while operations may be depicted in the drawings or described in the specification in a particular order such operations need not be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all operations be performed to achieve desirable results. Other operations that are not depicted or described can be incorporated in the example methods and processes. For example one or more additional operations can be performed before after simultaneously or between any of the described operations. Further the operations may be rearranged or reordered in other implementations. Also the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single product or packaged into multiple products.

For purposes of this disclosure certain aspects advantages and novel features are described herein. Not necessarily all such advantages may be achieved in accordance with any particular embodiment. Thus for example those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure may be embodied or carried out in a manner that achieves one advantage or a group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other advantages as may be taught or suggested herein.

Conditional language such as can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

Conjunctive language such as the phrase at least one of X Y and Z unless specifically stated otherwise is otherwise understood with the context as used in general to convey that an item term etc. may be either X Y or Z. Thus such conjunctive language is not generally intended to imply that certain embodiments require the presence of at least one of X at least one of Y and at least one of Z.

Unless otherwise explicitly stated articles such as a or an should generally be interpreted to include one or more described items. Accordingly phrases such as a device configured to are intended to include one or more recited devices. Such one or more recited devices can also be collectively configured to carry out the stated recitations. For example a processor configured to carry out recitations A B and C can include a first processor configured to carry out recitation A working in conjunction with a second processor configured to carry out recitations B and C.

Language of degree used herein such as the terms approximately about generally and substantially as used herein represent a value amount or characteristic close to the stated value amount or characteristic that still performs a desired function or achieves a desired result. For example the terms approximately about generally and substantially may refer to an amount that is within less than 10 of within less than 5 of within less than 1 of within less than 0.1 of and within less than 0.01 of the stated amount. As another example in certain embodiments the terms generally parallel and substantially parallel refer to a value amount or characteristic that departs from exactly parallel by less than or equal to 15 10 5 3 1 0.1 or otherwise. Similarly in certain embodiments the terms generally perpendicular and substantially perpendicular refer to a value amount or characteristic that departs from exactly perpendicular by less than or equal to 15 10 5 3 1 0.1 or otherwise.

The language of the claims is to be interpreted broadly based on the language employed in the claims and not limited to the examples described in the present specification or during the prosecution of the application which examples are to be construed as non exclusive.

Some embodiments have been described in connection with the accompanying drawings. However the figures are not drawn to scale. Distances angles etc. are merely illustrative and do not necessarily bear an exact relationship to actual dimensions and layout of the devices illustrated. Components can be added removed and or rearranged. Further the disclosure herein of any particular feature aspect method property characteristic quality attribute element or the like in connection with various embodiments can be used in all other embodiments set forth herein. Additionally it will be recognized that any methods described herein may be practiced using any device suitable for performing the recited steps.

In summary various illustrative embodiments and examples of beverage preparation machines have been disclosed. Although the beverage preparation machines have been disclosed in the context of those embodiments and examples it will be understood by those skilled in the art that this disclosure extends beyond the specifically disclosed embodiments to other alternative embodiments and or other uses of the embodiments as well as to certain modifications and equivalents thereof. This disclosure expressly contemplates that various features and aspects of the disclosed embodiments can be combined with or substituted for one another. Accordingly the scope of this disclosure should not be limited by the particular disclosed embodiments described above but should be determined only by a fair reading of the claims that follow as well as their full scope of equivalents.

