---

title: Facilitating wireless connections using a BLE beacon
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for facilitating wireless connections using a Bluetooth® low energy (BLE) beacon installed at a location. In particular, the provided systems and methods may facilitate wireless connections by providing credentials for accessing a wireless network at the location when a user checks in to the location using a user device in communication with the BLE beacon. The provided systems and methods may further facilitate wireless connections by establishing a Wi-Fi Direct connection with the user device to quickly provide content to the user device while at the location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09648652&OS=09648652&RS=09648652
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09648652
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140408
---
Embodiments disclosed herein are related to systems and methods for facilitating wireless connections using a Bluetooth low energy BLE beacon.

Due to the increase in use of mobile devices and the improved networking and online capabilities of these mobile devices merchants having physical brick and mortar storefronts may also have mechanisms for delivering advertisements and other information to the mobile devices while a user of the mobile device is in the merchant store. Some merchants may take advantage of platforms and services that allow a user to check in to the merchant or other location that they are in to deliver advertisements specials and other information. This allows the merchant to know that the user is at the store and provide specials and other information to the user. If the user is checking in via a social network the user may also provide feedback about the merchant which may be useful or helpful for the merchant. If the user is checking in via a payment processing service such as provided by PayPal Inc. or San Jose Calif. the user may be provided with options for selecting ordering and paying for items through the payment processing service when checking in providing convenience for both the user and the merchant. In theory checking provides benefits for both the user and the merchant. However the users may have to perform the tedious process of checking in every time that they visit the merchant. And if the user does not check in on every visit then neither the user nor the merchant fully benefits from checking in. Further if the user has limited data connectivity while at the merchant location due to poor cellular reception the user may not be able to check in and or receive any benefits associated with the check in.

In the following description specific details are set forth describing certain embodiments. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the disclosed embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. The specific embodiments presented are meant to be illustrative but not limiting. One skilled in the art may realize other material that although not specifically described herein is within the scope and spirit of this disclosure.

What is needed are systems and methods to facilitate communications over a non cellular wireless protocol such as Wi Fi when a user checks in at a location so the user can transmit and receive information while at the location without the user having to worry about their signal cellular data transmission standard or using data from their monthly plan to take advantage of features associated with the check in.

Consistent with some embodiments there is provided a system. The system includes one or more wireless transceivers configured to send credentials for accessing a wireless network to a user device in communication with the one or more wireless transceivers the credentials being sent using a Bluetooth low energy BLE communications protocol and establish a Wi Fi Direct connection with the user device based on the device identifier when content for the user device is received from a remote server and determined to be too large for sending to the user device using the BLE communications protocol. The one or more wireless transceivers are also configured to send the content to the user device using the established Wi Fi Direct connection when the content is determined to be too large for sending to the user device using the BLE communications protocol and using the BLE communications protocol when the content is not determined to be too large for sending using the BLE communications protocol. The system also includes a network interface component coupled to the one or more wireless transceivers and in communication with the remote server over a network the network interface component configured to receive the content from the remote server. The system further includes one or more processors configured to determine when the content received from the remote server is too large for sending using the BLE communications protocol and a memory.

Consistent with some embodiments there is also provided a method. The method includes steps of communicating with a beacon using Bluetooth low energy BLE communications protocol to check in to a location receiving credentials for accessing a wireless network from the beacon and authenticating to the wireless network using the received credentials. The method may also be embodied in computer readable media.

Consistent with some embodiments there is further provided a method. The method includes steps of sending credentials for accessing a wireless network to a user device using a Bluetooth low energy BLE communications protocol receiving content from a remote server establishing communications a Wi Fi Direct connection with the user device when the received content is determined to be too large for sending to the user device using the BLE communications protocol and sending the content to the user device using the established Wi Fi Direct connection when the content is determined to be too large for sending to the user device using the BLE communications protocol and using the BLE communications protocol when the content is not determined to be too large for sending using the BLE communications protocol. The method may also be embodied in computer readable media.

Embodiments described herein may provide a user with credentials for accessing a wireless network provided at the location such as a public Wi Fi network when the user checks in at the location through a BLE beacon. Embodiments described herein may further initiate a Wi Fi Direct connection with a user device session to provide large amounts of data to the user device.

Network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet.

Client computing device in one embodiment may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example client computing device may be implemented as a wireless telephone e.g. smart phone tablet personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer personal computer a connected set top box STB such as provided by cable or satellite content providers or a video game system console a head mounted display HMD or other wearable computing device including a wearable computing device having an eyeglass projection screen and or various other generally known types of computing devices.

As shown in system may include one or more beacons and one or more access points . In some embodiments beacons may be installed at a merchant location such as a store restaurant and the like. In some embodiments beacons may be Bluetooth Low Energy BLE beacons. BLE is a technology that transmits information at a frequency of about 2.4 GHz about 2042 2480 MHz over forty 40 2 MHz wide channels and has a range of about 50 meter or about 160 feet. Information transmitted according to the BLE protocol may be transmitted at a rate of about 1 Mbit s with an application throughput of about 0.27 Mbit s. In some embodiments BLE communications may be secured using 128 bit Advanced Encryption Standard AES encryption with counter mode with a cipher block chaining message authentication code CBC MAC and user defined security. Further in some embodiments BLE communications may utilize adaptive frequency hopping lazy acknowledgement a 24 bit cyclic redundancy check CRC and 32 bit message integrity check for robustness. Moreover in some embodiments BLE capable devices may consume a fraction of the power of standard Bluetooth devices due to the protocol allowing low duty cycles and being designed for applications that may not require continuous data transfer. Beacons may transmit one or more sequences of information such that when a device such as client computing device capable of receiving information from beacons comes within the range of a beacon the device may receive a transmission from a beacon and be instructed to perform an action such as display an advertisement execute a payment application or check a user in to a particular location. In some embodiments beacon may be in communication with remote server over network through wireless or wired connection. Beacon may also be capable of communicating with client computing device using a Wi Fi Direct connection. Wi Fi Direct is a Wi Fi standard that enables devices to initiate a peer to peer P2P connection with each other without the need for communicating through a network or wireless access point. In operation Wi Fi Direct compliant devices may include a software access point Soft AP that will allow compliant devices to exchange information using a Wi Fi Protected Setup and connect. Once connected the host device which is the one initiating the connection can provide data directly to the client device.

Access point may be a wireless access point WAP that may facilitate wireless communications by client computing device over network according to one or more versions of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE 802.11 standard. Access point may also be a wired router or bridge facilitating wireless communications over network according to the IEEE 802.3 Ethernet standard. In some embodiments client computing device may be required to authenticate to access point to connect to network the authentication requiring one or more credentials. Moreover access point may be associated with remote server such that access point may be provided by an entity having an account with remote server and access point may be capable of providing information to remote server over network .

Client computing device may include any appropriate combination of hardware and or software having one or more processors and capable of reading instructions stored on a tangible non transitory machine readable medium for execution by the one or more processors. Consistent with some embodiments client computing device includes a machine readable medium such as a memory not shown that includes instructions for execution by one or more processors not shown for causing client computing device to perform specific tasks. In some embodiments the instructions may be executed by the one or more processors in response to interaction by user . For example such instructions may include browser application such as a mobile browser application which may be used to provide a user interface to permit user to browse information available over network including information hosted by remote server . For example browser application may be implemented as a web browser to view information available over network . Browser application may include a graphical user interface GUI that is configured to allow user to interface and communicate with remote server or other servers managed by content providers or merchants via network . For example user may be able to access websites to find and purchase items as well as access user account information or web content.

Client computing device may also include a check in application that may allow user to check in to a location using a check in platform or service such as may be provided by PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. Foursquare of New York N.Y. Facebook Inc. of Menlo Park Calif. Google of Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. or Yelp Inc. of San Francisco Calif. and implemented by remote server . In some embodiments check in application may include multiple application programming interfaces APIs for checking in to one or more of the check in platforms or services. In some embodiments checking in to a location while visiting a location such as a merchant physical storefront may provide user with exclusive deals offers or may allow user to purchase and pay for items.

Client computing device may also include a payment application that may be used by user using client computing device to make a payment. In some embodiments payment application may be configured to make a payment using remote server as a payment processor. In some embodiments functionalities provided by check in application and payment application may actually be provided by a single application. Client computing device may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments to provide additional features available to user including accessing a user account with remote server . For example applications may include interfaces and communication protocols that allow the user to receive and transmit information through network and to remote server and other online sites. Applications may also include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate APIs over network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications. Applications may include mobile applications downloaded and resident on client computing device that enables user to access content through the applications.

Remote server according to some embodiments may be maintained by an online payment provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. which may provide processing for online financial and information transactions on behalf of user . Remote server according to some embodiments may also be maintained by a service that processes check ins so that a proprietor of a location such as a merchant or others know that user is at the location and is able to provide content to user as a result of the check in. Remote server may also be capable of providing access to a merchant s goods and services collectively referred to as items that are for purchase and may provide a payment service processing for the purchased items. Remote server may include at least check in application which may be configured to interact with client computing device connected to network and remote server to check user in to a location. In some embodiments checking client computing device in to a location may allow user and client computing device to access features specials offers and the like offered by the location. In some embodiments these features specials offers and the like may be provided and processed by remote server on behalf of the location. In some embodiments check ins may be automatic check ins made through the communication of client computing device and beacon such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 938 860 filed on Jul. 10 2013 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 021 045 filed on Sep. 9 2013 the entire contents of both of these applications which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Remote server may also include a payment application that may facilitate processing payments for user to merchants for example. In some embodiments payment application may be configured to interface with payment application to receive payment details user information merchant information and additional information for processing a payment on behalf of user . Payment application may also be capable of interfacing with check in application such that when a check in is processed a payment may be authorized for the location in which user is checking in to. In some embodiments functionalities provided by check in application and payment application may actually be provided by a single application. Remote server may also include an account database that includes account information for users having an account on remote server such as user . In some embodiments payment application may process payments based on information in account information of account database . Remote server may include other applications and may also be in communication with one or more external databases that may provide additional information that may be used by remote server . In some embodiments databases may be databases maintained by third parties and may include third party account information of user .

As used herein user may have an account with remote server such that account information includes information about user . When user checks in with remote server or performs other authentication with remote server client computing device may be associated with user such that remote server recognizes client computing device as being associated with user . In some embodiments remote server may send a cookie or other object to client computing device that provides an indication of the association between user and client computing device .

Although discussion has been made of applications and applications on client computing device and remote server the applications may also be in some embodiments modules. Module as used herein may refer to a software module that performs a function when executed by one or more processors or Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or other circuit having memory and at least one processor for executing instructions to perform a function such as the functions described as being performed by the applications.

Consistent with some embodiments computing system includes a system bus for interconnecting various components within computing system and communicating information between the various components. Such components include a processing component which may be one or more processors micro controllers graphics processing units GPUs or digital signal processors DSPs and a memory component which may correspond to a random access memory RAM an internal memory component a read only memory ROM or an external or static optical magnetic or solid state memory. Consistent with some embodiments computing system further includes a display component for displaying information to a user of computing system . Display component may be a liquid crystal display LCD screen an organic light emitting diode OLED screen including active matrix AMOLED screens an LED screen a plasma display or a cathode ray tube CRT display. Computing system may also include an input component allowing for a user of computing system such as consumer to input information to computing system . Such information could include payment information such as an amount required to complete a transaction account information authentication information such as a credential or identification information. An input component may include for example a keyboard or key pad whether physical or virtual. Computing system may further include a navigation control component configured to allow a user to navigate along display component . Consistent with some embodiments navigation control component may be a mouse a trackball or other such device. Moreover if device includes a touch screen display component input component and navigation control may be a single integrated component such as a capacitive sensor based touch screen.

Computing system may further include a location component for determining a location of computing system . In some embodiments location component may correspond to a GPS transceiver that is in communication with one or more GPS satellites. In other embodiments location component may be configured to determine a location of computing system by using an internet protocol IP address lookup or by triangulating a position based on nearby telecommunications towers or wireless access points WAPs . Location component may be further configured to store a user defined location in memory component that can be transmitted to a third party for the purpose of identifying a location of computing system . Computing system may also include sensor components . Sensor components provide sensor functionality and may correspond to sensors built into client computing device or sensor peripherals coupled to client computing device . Sensor components may include any sensory device that captures information related to user and or client computing device that may be associated with any actions that user performs using client computing device . Sensor components may include camera and imaging components accelerometers biometric readers GPS devices motion capture devices and other devices that are capable of providing information about client computing device or user or an environment therearound. Computing system may also include one or more wireless transceivers that may each include an antenna that is separable or integral and is capable of transmitting and receiving information according to one or more wireless network protocols such as Wi Fi 3G 4G HSDPA LTE RF NFC IEEE 802.11a b g n ac or ad Bluetooth BLE WiMAX ZigBee etc.

Computing system may perform specific operations by processing component executing one or more sequences of instructions contained memory component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure. Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processing component for execution including memory component . Consistent with some embodiments the computer readable medium is tangible and non transitory. In various implementations non volatile media include optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise system bus . According to some embodiments transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications. Some common forms of computer readable media include for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computing system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computing systems coupled by a communication link to network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another. Computing system may transmit and receive messages data and one or more data packets information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and network interface component and wireless transceiver . Received program code may be executed by processing component as received and or stored in memory component .

Beacon also includes a system bus for interconnecting various components within beacon and communicating information between the various components. Such components include a processing component which may be one or more processors micro controllers graphics processing units GPUs or digital signal processors DSPs a memory component firmware and one or more wireless transceivers that may each include an antenna that is separable or integral and is capable of transmitting and receiving information according to one or more wireless network protocols such as Wi Fi 3G 4G HSDPA LTE RF NFC IEEE 802.11a b g n ac or ad Bluetooth BLE WiMAX ZigBee etc. In some embodiments wireless transceivers and network interface component may be part of the same component or may be separate components. Moreover network interface component and or wireless transceivers may also be configured to establish communications with another device using Wi Fi Direct. In some embodiments network interface component and wireless transceivers may be capable of communicating with a device based on instructions executed by processing component . In other embodiments network interface component and wireless transceivers may include one or more processors capable of executing instructions for establishing communications and communicating information over an established communication. Beacon may also include a power source . Power source may be any power source capable of providing sufficient current to power the components of beacon . In some embodiments power source may be a battery such as a watch battery or button cell.

In some embodiments beacon may be configured to transmit information using network interface component and or wireless transceivers based on instructions stored in memory and or firmware executed by processing component or by one or more processors in network interface component or wireless transceivers . The instructions may be stored in memory and or firmware by directly writing the instructions to memory and or firmware over communication link to beacon hardware interface or by wirelessly receiving instructions by wireless transceivers . In some embodiments beacon may be configured to transmit information related to checking in to a merchant associated with beacon . In some embodiments beacon may also transmit instructions that when received by client computing device may cause check in application or payment application to be executed by processing component to cause client computing device to perform a check in at the merchant associated with beacon . Further beacon may transfer instructions that when received by client computing device cause payment application to be executed by processing component to allow user to authorize a payment to be processed by remote server . In some embodiments wireless transceiver may correspond to a BLE transceiver configured to transmit and receive information according to the BLE protocol. In some embodiments beacon may be a BLE beacon or dongle such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 938 860 filed on Jul. 10 2013 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. Further BLE beacon may have a design such as shown in U.S. Design Application No. 29 455 720 filed May 23 2013 the entire contents of which are also incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

As will be readily appreciated the foregoing networks systems devices methods and variations thereof can be used to implement an automated check in of users at a cooperating or subscribing establishment such that subsequent purchase transactions and other activities can be more streamlined and convenient.

Merchant location includes an indoor store floor having a number of beacons and access points . In some embodiments beacons may be BLE beacons and access points may be wireless access points WAPs . These devices can be distributed strategically throughout merchant location such as near the front door at central locations and or at locations of high volume traffic within the establishment. One or more client computing devices can interact with one or more of the beacons throughout location . Preferably only one interaction with a beacon is needed for a check in although it may be useful for an establishment to know where user is located and or where user travels and shopping patterns or habits within location . Such further information can be used to provide further advertising and promotional offers e.g. related to something at or near where the user is physically located and or to authenticate the actual user versus one who may have stolen or is otherwise using the mobile device in an unauthorized fashion. Such further authentication can involve checking known user traffic and shopping patterns against what is currently happening for a given device .

An actual automatic check in process can involve a subscribed or affirmatively active user entering a merchant location whereupon client computing device associated with user has a low level background program such as check in application running that detects a low level BLE signal from one or more beacons in the store. Client computing device can then wake up and communicate on a more active level with beacon . In some embodiments a device identifier and token can be generated and assigned to client computing device for a particular time location and session with appropriate expiration and other safeguards in place to protect against fraud or other misuse. For example a period of one or two hours might suffice for a typical check in session or event. The process of establishing communications between client computing device and beacon and exchanging metadata and a one time use beacon token to perform a check in is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 938 860 filed on Jul. 10 2013 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 021 045 filed on Sep. 9 2013 the entire contents of both of these applications which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

When user having client computing device enters location user may complete the automatic check in facilitated by BLE beacon as discussed above. In some embodiments the check in may be performed between client computing device and beacon located near door at an entrance to location. As user moves through location with client computing device client computing device may receive content from beacons such as advertisements offers and the like and may also be able to communicate with beacon to effectuate a payment. In some embodiments a merchant or other entity may want to provide a large amount of content such as a video or audio advertisement to user by displaying the content on client computing device . However while beacons may be sufficient for providing images text and other content that has a small file size using BLE communications it may be difficult for beacons to provide larger files over BLE communications. Consistent with some embodiments beacons may be configured to establish a Wi Fi Direct connection with client computing device to quickly deliver a large file such as a video and then close or terminate the Wi Fi Direct connection. In some embodiments other devices in location may also be capable of establishing a Wi Fi Direct connection with client computing device . In such embodiments the connection may be facilitated by beacon .

Moreover as user with client computing device travels through location user may want to connect to network to send and receive e mails surf the web using browser application and other internet based activities. In some embodiments network interface component and or wireless transceiver may be configured for transmitting and receiving data over network using a cellular or mobile data standard such as EDGE 3G HSDPA 4G LTE and the like such transmissions may be metered by the network or cellular provider such that any data that is transmitted may cost user in 10 20 or 100 MB bundles or may count against a data cap associated with an account of user . Moreover as user moves throughout location which may be a covered or walled location a connection to network over a cellular or mobile data signal may become weaker resulting in lower data speeds or the reliance on lower speed standards such as EDGE. Consequently location may include one or more access points that may provide a Wi Fi connection to network for client computing device .

However since a proprietor of location likely pays for the network and maintenance of access points one or more credentials such as a user name Service Set Identifier SSID or password may be required to establish a connection with access point to prevent authorized use. In some embodiments beacons in location may be configured to provide the one or more credentials to client computing device . For example beacons may be configured to provide the one or more credentials to client computing device when client computing device checks in to location although in some embodiments beacon may provide the one or more credentials to client computing device even when client computing device does not check in to location . However in some embodiments. the credentials for access points may be a reward to user for checking in to location and implicitly agreeing to receive advertisements and offers related to location on client computing device .

In some embodiments the received credentials may be displayed on display component of client computing device as a prompt for user to view make note of and enter into a form requesting credentials for connecting to access points . In some embodiments check in application may include additional instructions that when executed receive the credentials as part of the check in process performed with beacon extracts and saves the credentials and retrieves and enters the credentials when prompted by access point . In some embodiments check in application may further actively connect to access point and enter the credentials as part of the check in process.

Beacon may then continuously broadcast a generic identifier. In some embodiments the identifier may be a universally unique identifier UUID and the identifier may be broadcast using a BLE communications protocol. The broadcast identifier may be received and verified by client computing device to initiate communications with beacon . Beacon may then provide information including metadata a specific one time use beacon token and a digital signature to client computing device . In some embodiments client computing device may request the metadata and other information from beacon when communications are initiated with beacon . Check in application may then verify the received information including the digital signature as being issued by the service provider using a public key received from remote server . When the received beacon information is verified as authentic check in application may provide user with the option to check in. When user accepts the check in client computing device may select a token received from remote server encrypt the selected token value and the received beacon token value using a key associated with the selected token and send these encrypted token values to beacon . Beacon then sends the encrypted token values to remote server which decrypts the values and checks in user and user device using the decrypted values. The process of checking in by communicating with a BLE beacon such as beacon is further described in in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 938 860 filed on Jul. 10 2013 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 021 045 filed on Sep. 9 2013 the entire contents of both of these applications which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

In some embodiments beacon may then transmit credentials for access point to client computing device . In some embodiments the transmitted credentials may include a user name SSID password and the like. Client computing device may use these credentials to authenticate with access point and establish a wireless connection with access point and communicate over network through access point . In some embodiments client computing device may send these credentials to access point . In some embodiments check in application may include instructions that when executed cause the credentials to be provided to access point including automatically providing the credentials when prompted by a communication from access point and or displaying the credentials on display component of client computing device for user to take note of for entry. Access point may receive the credentials provided by client computing device and authenticate client computing device . Client computing device may now be in communication with network via a wireless connection with access point . Although illustrates an example when a check in at location is required to receive the one or more credentials in other examples and embodiments beacon may provide the one or more credentials when client computing device initially establishes communications with beacon .

In some embodiments remote server may want to provide content to client computing device . The content that may be provided to device may be offers deals specials information about location and other such content. The content that may be provided to client computing device may also be transaction related content including content related to paying for items user is purchasing from location . However in some embodiments the content that may be provided to client computing device may be one or more files having a large file size such as video audio and the like. For example remote server may want to provide a video advertisement to client computing device . However a large file such as a video advertisement may not be effectively transmitted from beacon to client computing device particularly using a BLE communications protocol. Consequently beacon may be configured to establish a Wi Fi Direct connection with client computing device and send the content to the client computing device over the established Wi Fi Direct connection. In some embodiments once the content has been sent to client computing device beacon may close or terminate the Wi Fi Direct connection with client computing device .

Client computing device may then request metadata and other information from beacon . In response client computing device may receive beacon information such as metadata a beacon token and a digital signature from beacon for checking in to location . Processing component of client computing device may then verify the received beacon information including the digital signature and beacon token using keys stored in memory component of client computing device and received from remote server . Client computing device may then receive a check in acceptance . In some embodiments upon receiving the metadata beacon token and digital signature check in application may prompt user to accept the check in to location by for example displaying an interactive prompt on display component . User may be able to accept the check in by interacting with the prompt using input component navigation control and display component or a combination thereof. When client computing device receives a check in acceptance processing component of client computing device may then encrypt token values and send these encrypted values to beacon . In some embodiments the encrypted values may be sent to beacon by wireless transceiver of client computing device using a BLE communication protocol.

Client computing device may then receive credentials to authenticate to access point . In some embodiments the credentials may be received as part of the metadata received in step . In some embodiments the received credentials may include a user name SSID password and the like. Client computing device may then send these credentials to authenticate with access point . In some embodiments client computing device may automatically send these credentials to access point . In some embodiments check in application may include instructions that when executed cause the credentials to be provided to access point including automatically providing the credentials when prompted by a communication from access point and or displaying the credentials on display component of client computing device for user to take note of for entry.

In some embodiments client computing device may receive content from beacon over a Wi Fi Direct connection established with client computing device . In some embodiments remote server may push content to beacons for providing to client computing device and the content may be one or more files having a large file size such as video audio and the like. Beacon may then establish a Wi Fi Direct connection with client computing device and send the content to the client computing device over the established Wi Fi Direct connection. In some embodiments once the content has been sent to client computing device the Wi Fi Direct connection may be terminated.

Beacon may then send metadata a beacon token and a digital signature in response to a request received from a device that received the broadcast identifier . In some embodiments the beacon token digital signature and metadata may be received from remote server and stored in memory component and or firmware . To complete the check in beacon may then receive encrypted token values from client computing device which are sent to remote server .

Beacon may then send credentials to access point to client computing device . In some embodiments the credentials may be sent as part of the metadata sent in step . In some embodiments the sent credentials may include a user name SSID password and the like. When there is content to provide to user and client computing device beacon may receive the content from remote server over network . Processing component may make a determination as to whether the size of the content is suitable for transmission over a BLE communications protocol . When the size of the content is too large for transmission over a BLE communications protocol beacon may then establish a Wi Fi Direct connection with client computing device and provide the content to client computing device over the Wi Fi Direct connection . In some embodiments beacon may close or terminated the Wi Fi Direct connection once the content has been sent to client computing device . When the size is determined to be suitable for transmission over the BLE communications protocol beacon may send the content to client computing device over the BLE communications protocol .

Remote server may then check user and client computing device into location using one or more values decrypted from encrypted values received from beacon . As discussed above with respect to when user of client computing device accepts a check in client computing device may verify a beacon token provided by beacon and may then encrypt token values and send these encrypted values to beacon which may then send the encrypted values to remote server which processing component of remote server may decrypt and use to check in user and client computing device to location .

Processing component may determine when a check in has expired and check user and client computing device out of location . However as long as user is checked in to location processing component of remote server may periodically determine that there is content to provide to user and client computing device and will provide the content to one or more beacons at location . In some embodiments at least one of the beacons may provide the content to client computing device . As discussed with respect to above the content may be provided to client computing device over a Wi Fi Direct connection established between client computing device and beacon when the file size of the content is too large for transmission over a BLE communications protocol. Otherwise the content may be provided to client computing device by beacon using a BLE communications protocol.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more machine readable mediums including non transitory machine readable medium. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

Embodiments described herein may provide a user with credentials for accessing a public Wi Fi network provided at the location when the user checks in at the location through a BLE beacon. Embodiments described herein may further initiate a Wi Fi Direct communications session to provide the large amounts of data to the user device. The examples provided above are exemplary only and are not intended to be limiting. One skilled in the art may readily devise other systems consistent with the disclosed embodiments which are intended to be within the scope of this disclosure. As such the application is limited only by the following claims.

