---

title: Viral invitations for social networks
abstract: A system and method for virally growing a social network. The social network system receives a member account sign-up message for a first social network from a first member. The social network system then posts a member sign-up notification to the first member's event wall on a second social network; wherein the first member has one or more social contacts through the second social network. For at least a second respective member in the one or more social contacts, the social network system posts a personalized invitation message as a comment to the member sign-up notification on the first member's event wall, wherein the comment is initially hidden from all members other than the second respective member of the one or more member contacts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09419818&OS=09419818&RS=09419818
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09419818
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140430
---
The disclosed implementations relate generally to the field of social networks and in particular to a system for rapidly growing a social networking system.

The rise of the computer age has resulted in increased access to personalized services online. As the cost of electronics and networking services drop many services that were previously provided in person are now provided remotely over the Internet. For example entertainment has increasingly shifted to the online space with companies such as Netflix and Amazon streaming TV shows and movies to members at home. Similarly electronic mail e mail has reduced the need for letters to physically be delivered. Instead messages are sent over networked systems almost instantly. Similarly online social networking sites allow members to build and maintain personal and business relationships in a much more comprehensive and manageable manner.

Consequently the number of different social networks and the amount which they are used in every facet of daily life has increased significantly. These social networks collect and organize data about their members social lives and then are able to track the social graphs e.g. social connections amongst members for large groups of members. Generally social networks with more members and more social data provide more benefits to their members than social networks with fewer members and less data. Thus established social networks typically have more members and social graph data that can potentially make them more useful than newly created competitor social networks.

The present disclosure describes methods systems and computer program products for virally growing a social network in an environment with an existing social network. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of different implementations. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the any particular implementation may be practiced without all of the specific details and or with variations permutations and combinations of the various features and elements described herein.

Social networks collect and organize data about their member s social lives and then are able to track the social graphs e.g. social connections amongst members for large groups of members. This data can then be used by the members to keep in touch with their contacts share and receive news interact with other members find additional relationships and generally extend the reach of their social lives. Thus social networks with more members and more social data provide more benefits to their members than social networks with fewer members and less data. Because of these additional benefits established social networks typically have more members and social graph data that can potentially make them more useful than newly created social networks.

New or small social networks therefore need to grow their membership and social graph data as quickly as possible. One potential way to accomplish this is to leverage the social graph data in one or more already existing social networks. However because social graph data is one of a social network s most valuable assets each different social network may place restrictions on who can access that data and how it can be accessed.

It is therefore important that the first network take steps to ensure that the second social network is not unduly burdened as the first network accesses its social networking information and that the privacy of users is respected.

The privacy of members who use Internet based services is an increasingly important factor to consider. The present implementations protect the privacy of members in several ways. First by importing social graph data from a second social network the social network server system avoids having to request direct member contact information e.g. email address . This allows a new member to refer their friends without feeling that they are violating their friend s privacy. Secondly private invitation messages are sent through personalized comments that are initially hidden. In this way members cannot easily see who has and has not received an invitation from a new member. Lastly the personalized invite is deleted either when the link is clicked or when the invited member joins the first social network. In this way it is unlikely that anyone other than the invited member will see the personalized invitations.

When a new member joins a first social network that social network can determine whether that new member belongs to any other social networks. This information can be gathered from the new member as part of the sign up process or submitted by the new member at some later point. If the new member is also a member of a second social network the first social network then determines the data sharing policies of the second social network. Some social networks do not allow any data to be shared. In this case the first social network will not be able to import any data from the second social network into its own social data graph. Other social networks share direct contact information for the new member s social contacts. In this case the first social network can add all the social graph data from the second social network to its own social graph data and send direct invitations to the social contacts of the new member e.g. via e mail message .

When the first network determines that the second social network only allows access to the in network member identification information e.g. member name member ID internal to the second social network of the new members social contacts the first social network requests a list of social contacts for the new member from the second social network. In some cases this request is made using the login or member identification received from the new member e.g. the first social network requests a list of social contacts for Member A via logging into Member A s account and submitting the request on Member A s behalf . In other implementations the request can be made directly through an API provided by the second social network.

The first social network receives a list of social contacts for the new member from the second social network. The list only includes member identification that is internal to the second social network e.g. information that can uniquely identify a member on the second social network but does not allow the first network to contact the member directly .

The first social network then posts a notification on the new member s event wall or activity feed e.g. an area of a webpage that posts some or all of the updates relevant to the member in the second social network. The event wall or activity feed is generally a web page generated by the second social network that includes information deemed to be relevant to the member for whom it is generated. Thus when member A togs into the second social network they are able to view a web page that includes the latest information related to their friends family causes and any other information deemed relevant.

The notification is listed as having the new member as the author e.g. a self post and thus may be displayed on the walls of his or her friends. For example in some social networks when Member A posts a new status that status is then shared with at least some of Member A s friends on an activity feed or event wall associated with each friend. However an event from a company or an organization that appears on the activity feed of Member A is either unable or much less to appear on the activity feed of the social contacts of Member A. Thus the first social network obtains Member A s permission to post the notification as a self post to ensure that the notification post receives the maximum exposure to Member A s social contacts. The notification includes a link to the first social network.

The first social network also requests the new member to invite one or more social contacts from the list of their social contacts by sending the new member a list of their social contacts and inviting the new member to select one or more members from the displayed list e.g. the first social network system displays a list of the new member s social contacts and requests the member selects one or more social contacts to receive invitations. The first social network then records all the social contacts selected by the new member as potential members. The first social network then posts one comment to the notification message on the new member s event wall for each selected social contact. Each comment includes a link to a personalized member sign up screen for the first social network. In some implementations all the comments to the notification are initially hidden from view and only accessible if a member chooses to view the comments directly e.g. the member clicks on a button to unhide all the comments . Thus the second social network is not overwhelmed with personalized invites to the first social network. Additionally the privacy of the members is also somewhat protected.

In some implementations each comment includes the memberID of one of the selected social contacts and an address symbol e.g. membername1 . In some implementations including both the address symbol e.g. the symbol and the memberID ensures that the second social network treats the comment like a direct message to the potential member associated with the memberID. The comment is then directly displayed to the potential member associated with the memberID but not displayed to other members of the second social network.

The second social network can display the comment to the member associated with the member ID on that member s respective activity feed or send the comment as a message through the second social network s internal messaging system e.g. the personalized invitation will be displayed in a message area of the second social network . In this way each invited social contact is guaranteed to see the personalized invitation to the first social network but other members of the second social network do not see the personalized invites unless they specifically open the comments to the notification post. Thus the first social network minimizes the number of messages and posts needed on the second social network to achieve viral growth in membership of the first social network.

In some implementations the invited social contact e.g. potential new member can click on the personalized invitation link in the respective comment personalized for them. In response the first social network sends the potential new member a personalized invitation page to register with the first social network. In some implementations when a potential member selects the personalized invitation link the first social network deletes the comment that includes their particular personalized invitation link. In other implementations the first social network only deletes a comment when the invited social contact e.g. a second member joins the first social network.

In some implementations when invited prospective member joins the first social network the process of finding a list of their social contacts and inviting the social contacts to join the first social network occurs again allowing viral growth of the first social network.

In some implementations a client system is an electronic device such as a personal computer a laptop a smartphone a tablet a mobile phone or any other electronic device capable of communication with a communication network . The client system includes one or more client applications which are executed by the client system . In some implementations the client application s includes one or more applications from the set consisting of search applications communication applications productivity applications game applications word processing applications or any other useful applications. The client application s include a web browser . The client system uses the web browser to communicate with the social networking server system and displays information received from the social networking server system . In some implementations the client system includes an application specifically customized for communication with the social network server system e.g. a LinkedIn iPhone application .

In some implementations the client system sends a request to the social networking server system for a webpage associated with the social networking server system e.g. the client system sends a request to the social networking server system for an updated activity feed webpage . For example a member of the client system logs onto the social networking server system and clicks to view updates to their personalized event list. In response the client system receives the updated event list e.g. news items recommendations friend status updates and displays them on the client system .

In some implementations as shown in the social network server system is generally based on a three tiered architecture consisting of a front end layer application logic layer and data layer. As is understood by skilled artisans in the relevant computer and Internet related arts each module or engine shown in represents a set of executable software instructions and the corresponding hardware e.g. memory and processor for executing the instructions. To avoid unnecessary detail various functional modules and engines that are not germane to conveying an understanding of the various implementations have been omitted from . However a skilled artisan will readily recognize that various additional functional modules and engines may be used with a social network server system such as that illustrated in to facilitate additional functionality that is not specifically described herein. Furthermore the various functional modules and engines depicted in may reside on a single server computer or may be distributed across several server computers in various arrangements. Moreover although depicted in as a three tiered architecture the various implementations are by no means limited to this architecture.

As shown in the front end consists of a user interface module e.g. a web server which receives requests from various client systems and communicates appropriate responses to the requesting client systems . For example the user interface module s may receive requests in the form of Hypertext Transport Protocol HTTP requests or other web based application programming interface API requests. The client system may be executing conventional web browser applications or applications that have been developed for a specific platform to include any of a wide variety of mobile devices and operating systems.

As shown in the data layer includes several databases including databases for storing data for various entities of the social graph including member profile data members activity data e.g. data describing member interactions with the social network server system or with other members throughout the social network system server other social network social graph data and member organization data e.g. data that described member groups and affiliations on the first social network server system . In some implementations the social graph data structure is implemented with a social graph database which is a particular type of database that uses graph structures with nodes edges and properties to represent and store data. Of course with various alternative implementations any number of other entities might be included in the social graph e.g. companies organizations schools and universities religious groups non profit organizations and any other group and as such various other databases may be used to store data corresponding with other entities.

Consistent with some implementations when a person initially registers to become a member of the social network service implemented by the social network server system the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birth date gender interests contact information home town address educational background e.g. schools majors etc. current job title job description industry employment history skills professional organizations memberships in other social networks and so on. This information is stored for example in the member profile database with reference number . In some implementations the new member is also prompted to provide a list of other social networks the new member already belongs to. If the new member belongs to one or more other social networks the social network server system also prompts the member for their member names or other identifying information for the one or more other social networks to which the new member belongs.

In some implementations the member profile database includes member activity data . In other implementations the member activity database is distinct from but associated with the member profile database . The member activity database stores activity data for each member of the social network server system . Member activity data includes but is not limited to the dates and times the member logs onto or off of the system information viewed by the member on the social networking server system e.g. pages associated with people organizations brands and or companies jobs listings communications made with other members posts or messages and posts made by the member.

In some implementations the social network server system also stores some social graph data requested and received from a different social network in the other network social graph database . The data may be stored temporarily as a new member adds social contacts to the social network server system .

The member organization database also stores data related to organizations on the social network server system and their members. Thus members of the social network server system may create groups of members e.g. based on interests family connections schools employers etc. for members to join.

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service. A connection may include a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some implementations a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some implementations does not include acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive automatic notifications about various activities undertaken by the member being followed. In addition to following another member a member may elect to follow a company a topic a conversation or some other entity which may or may not be included in the social graph. Various other types of relationships may exist between different entities and are represented in the social graph data .

The social network server system may also temporarily store social graph data received from a second social network when a new member joins the social network server system . This data is stored in the other social network social graph database .

The social network service may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some implementations the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. As such at least with some implementations a photograph may be a property or entity included within a social graph. With some implementations members of a social network service may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. In some implementations the data for a group may be stored in a database. When a member joins a group his or her membership in the group will be reflected in both the member organization database and the social graph data stored in the database with reference number .

With some implementations members may subscribe to or join groups affiliated with one or more companies. For instance with some implementations members of the social network service may indicate an affiliation with a company at which they are employed such that news and events pertaining to the company are automatically communicated to the members. With some implementations members may be allowed to subscribe to receive information concerning companies other than the company with which they are employed. Here again membership in a group a subscription or following relationship with a company or group as well as an employment relationship with a company are all examples of the different types of relationships that may exist between different entities as defined by the social graph and modelled with the social graph data of the database with reference number .

In some implementations the application logic layer includes various application server modules which in conjunction with the user interface module s generates various member interfaces e.g. web pages with data retrieved from various data sources in the data layer. With some implementations individual application server modules are used to implement the functionality associated with various applications services and features of the social network service. For instance a messaging application such as an email application an instant messaging application or some hybrid or variation of the two may be implemented with one or more application server modules . Similarly a search engine enabling members to search for and browse member profiles may be implemented with one or more application server modules . Of course other applications or services that utilize the viral membership growth module may be separately implemented in their own application server modules .

In addition to the various application server modules the application logic layer includes the viral membership growth module . As illustrated in with some implementations the viral membership growth module is implemented as a service that operates in conjunction with various application server modules . For instance any number of individual application server modules can invoke the functionality of the viral membership growth module to include an application server module associated with applications for growing the social network virally. However with various alternative implementations the viral membership growth module may be implemented as its own application server module such that it operates as a stand alone application. With some implementations the viral membership growth module includes or has an associated publicly available application programming interface API that enables third party applications to invoke the functionality of the viral membership growth module .

Generally the viral membership growth module assists new member of the social network server system to invite social contacts they have though other social networks to join the social network server system . To do this the viral membership growth module identifies a new member when they join the social network server system . The viral membership growth module requests the new member to list one or more social networks to which they already belong. If the member identifies at least one other social network the viral membership growth module then requests the new member s permission to access their data on this other social network e.g. asks the member to provide a member name and to consent to the social network server system accessing the social data stored at the other social network .

In some implementations if the new member agrees the social network server system requests a list of the new member s social contacts from the other social network . Once the list of the new member s social contacts is received the social network server system requests that the new member select one or more members from the contact list to invite to join the social network server system . For example the social network server system sends a web page to the client device that lists one or more contacts. The new member the selects e.g. clicks a check box one or more of the listed contacts. The social network server system then receives the one or more contacts selected by the member.

In some implementations the social network server system then creates a post announcing that the new member has joined the first social network. This announcement post is then posted to the first member s account on the second social network. For example the announcement post is posted as a status update from the new member. The status update is then included on the event walls of the social contact of the new member on the second social network. In some implementations the notification post includes a link to the first social network.

The social network server system then generates personalized invitations for each member selected by the new member. In some implementations each personalized invitation is posted as a comment to the notification post. These comments are initially hidden from view e.g. the notification post does not show the comments unless a member requests to see them . A member may choose to view the comments e.g. by clicking on the comments button or link. In this way the personalized invitations are only shown to the intended invitee. In some implementations each personalized invitation includes the member name of the specific invitee and a symbol that indicates that the invitation is directed to that member e.g. inviteeMemberName1 . Each invitation also includes a personalized invitation link.

In some implementations when a member clicks on a personalized invitation link the social networking server system sends a customized membership registration webpage e.g. a membership registration screen that includes at least some details of the invitee e.g. the potential member s name . In some implementations when the potential member clicks on his or her associated personalized invitation link the social networking server system then deletes the comment including the personalized invitation. For example if Member A selects Potential Member B to receive a personalized invitation the social networking server system then posts a comment that includes the member ID of Potential Member B. If Potential Member B then clicks on the customized invitation link the server system then deletes the comment that includes the personalized invitation for Potential Member B. In other implementations the social networking server system only deletes the personalized invitation comment for Potential Member B when Potential Member B actually joins the first social network.

In some implementations one or more other social networks e.g. Facebook Myspace Google Weibo are connected to the communication network . The social networking server system can communicate with the one or more other social networks via a communication module to request social data and access the social network APIs. Each social network also includes at least some social graph data .

Memory includes high speed random access memory such as dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM double data rate random access memory DDR RAM or other random access solid state memory devices and may include non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices optical disk storage devices flash memory devices or other non volatile solid state storage devices. Memory may optionally include one or more storage devices remotely located from the CPU s . Memory or alternately the non volatile memory device s within memory comprise s a non transitory computer readable storage medium.

In some implementations memory or the computer readable storage medium of memory stores the following programs modules and data structures or a subset thereof 

Memory or alternately the non volatile memory device s within memory comprises a non transitory computer readable storage medium. In some implementations memory or the computer readable storage medium of memory stores the following programs modules and data structures or a subset thereof 

As shown in the recommendation or status update with reference number includes buttons or links that enable the viewing member to interact or engage with the recommendation. In particular a button labelled like allows the member to upvote the suggestion or express a favorable opinion of the recommendation and the course it recommends. Similarly a button labelled share allows the viewing member to share the recommendation or status update with another member of the social network service for example by re publishing the recommendation to another member s personal data feed or content stream. Finally a button labelled comment allows the member to comment on the recommendation or status update for example by entering some text that will be presented with the recommendation or status update and be visible in the personalized content streams of other members of the social network service. Clicking on the comment button will also display any currently hidden comments. In this case the comment button includes the number indicating that two comments are currently hidden.

In some implementations when the comments to a notification post are displayed one or more customized invite links for prospective members are displayed. The first customized invite comment is addressed to prospectivemember1 using the symbol. The comment also includes a link to a membership sign up page personalized to prospectivemember1. Similarly the second customized invite comment is addressed to prospectivemember2 using the symbol and also includes a link to a membership sign up page personalized to prospectivemember2.

In some implementations the method is performed at a computer system including one or more processors and memory storing one or more programs for execution by the one or more processors. In some implementations the computer system is associated with or hosts a first social network e.g. social network server system .

The social network server system receives a member account sign up message for a first social network from a first member. For example a new member goes to sign up page enters the requested information and an account on the first social network is created. The request can be associated with a particular member profile from a second social network. If so the member profile represents a first member of the second social network. For example member A has a profile on the second social network. Member A then clicks on a link posted in the second social network that displays a sign up page for the first social network. By clicking the link. Member A has also caused information about Member A s profile to be sent to the first social network.

The social network server system determines whether the first member is also a member of a second social network. For example during the sign up process the social network server system requests that new member select other social networks that the new member is already a member of. In some implementations a list of social networks is presented and the member selects one or more social networks. In other implementations the new member can enter one or more social networks.

In response to determining that the first member is a member of the second social network the social network server system requests member identification information for the first member on the second social network s member identification. This information is only given to the social network server system if the member consents and it is therefore completely optional. For example the social network server system asks the new member to enter their Facebook profile page. In other examples the social network server system asks for a member ID such as a twitter handle.

The social network server system then receives the first member s member identification information for the second social network from the first member. The social network server system then requests a list of one or more social contacts associated with the first member using the received first member s member identification from the second social network. For example the second social network provides an API for requesting a list of all of the friends of the new member using that member s in network member identification e.g. login name or email address . In some implementations based on the second social network s data sharing policies the list of social contacts only includes the in network identification for each of the social contacts. This allows social networks to protect their member s privacy by not giving out the member s direct contact information email address .

In response to the request the second social network provides at least some data related to the social contacts associated with the first member. Thus the social network server system receives a list of one or more social contacts associated with the first member from the second social network.

The social network server system then posts a member sign up notification to an event wall web page generated by the second social network based on information related to the first member profile wherein the first member profile is connected to one or more member profiles associated with the social contacts of the first member through the second social e.g. a self post rather than a post from the first social network . In this way the notification post is visible on the event page of the new member on the second social network and may also be displayed on the event pages of the new member s social contacts.

In some implementations the social network server system sends a request to select one or more members from the list of one or more social contacts received from the second social network to the first member. For example the social network server system sends a web page that lists some or all of the new member s social contacts from the second social network and displays them with check boxes next to each name. The new member can then check or uncheck each name. Checking a check box associated with a particular social contact e.g. by clicking on it indicates that the new member wants to invite the associated social contact to the social network server system . In some implementations the webpage defaults to Select Ail and in other implementations the webpage defaults to no one selected.

The social network server system then receives the selected one or more members from the first member. For example after the new member has selected social contacts from the displayed list of social contacts the social network server system receives a list of all 20 selected social contacts and their associated member identification information for the second social network from a client device associated with the new member.

For at least a second respective member in the one or more social contacts the social network server system posts a personalized invitation message as a comment to the member sign up notification on the first member s event wall wherein the comment is initially hidden from all members other than the second respective member of the one or more member contacts. In some implementations each personalized invitation message includes a personal referral link that includes embedded information that will automatically connect to the inviting member. For example if new member A selects to invite prospective member B to the first social network the personalized link will include metadata indicating the invite was from new member A. If prospective member B joins the first social network the network will automatically list new member A as a social contact e.g. friend .

The social network server system initially omits display of the comment on an event wall generated by the second social network based on information related to the second member profile. The comment is only viewed when a member specifically clicks on the comments button to reveal all comments.

In some implementations the second respective member is one of the members selected by the first member. Thus only prospective members selected by the new member receive personalized invites through the new member. In some implementations the social network server system receives receiving notification that the second respective member has clicked on the personalized referral link.

In response to receiving notification that the second respective member has clicked on the personalized referral link the social network server system transmits a personalized membership registration web page to the respective second member. For example the personalized membership registration webpage includes the member s name and one or more potential social contacts e.g. friends . This personalized membership registration page can be generated with information received from the new member.

In response to receiving notification that the second respective member has clicked on the personalized referral link the social network server system deletes the comment from the first member s event wall. In other implementations the social network server system deletes the comment from the first member s event wall in response to receiving notification that the second respective member has joined the first social network.

To grow the social graph the first social network requests social graph data about new member A from the second social network. If the second social network permits a list of social contacts is obtained by the first social network.

As can be seen only edges connected to new member A are added to the social graph. For example A E A N A Q etc. were added. However the I K edge as seen in is not added because only social contacts associated with new member A were received from the second social network. In some implementations only members who confirm the relationship with new member A are added to the graph e.g. the member is only added after accepting a fried request from Member A . In this way the social graph data of the first social network can be augmented and the first social network can grow into a new area quickly. In some implementations when invited prospective member joins the first social network the process of finding a list of their social contacts and inviting the social contacts occurs again allowing viral growth of the social network.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific implementations. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the possible implementations to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The implementations were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles involved and their practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the various implementations with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

It will also be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first contact could be termed a second contact and similarly a second contact could be termed a first contact without departing from the scope of the present implementations. The first contact and the second contact are both contacts but they are not the same contact.

The terminology used in the description of the implementations herein is for the purpose of describing particular implementations only and is not intended to be limiting. As used in the description of the implementations and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

As used herein the term if may be construed to mean when or upon or in response to determining or in response to detecting depending on the context. Similarly the phrase if it is determined or if a stated condition or event is detected may be construed to mean upon determining or in response to determining or upon detecting the stated condition or event or in response to detecting the stated condition or event depending on the context.

