---

title: Shared spectrum load balancing
abstract: A wireless telecommunications system may be configured to provide wireless service via licensed and/or shared frequency bands (e.g., frequency bands that are shared with other telecommunications systems, and for which access is regulated by an external entity). A load balancing technique, described herein, may provide load balancing between licensed and shared frequency bands based on traffic type (e.g., real-time or non-real-time traffic) and/or based on device type (e.g., whether a device is typically involved in real-time communications). Techniques described herein may also provide for the staggered or gradual reduction of the transmit power of a radio associated with a shared frequency band (e.g., in response to an instruction from the external entity), in order to minimize the abrupt increase in load on other frequency bands that may result from reducing coverage of the shared frequency band.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09596623&OS=09596623&RS=09596623
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09596623
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140811
---
User devices such as wireless telephones may wirelessly connect or attach to a wireless network via a base station. The base station may provide multiple carriers to which the user devices may attach. As used herein a particular carrier may refer to a particular radio access technology a particular frequency band and or a particular set of frequencies within a frequency band. The frequency bands provided by the base station may include licensed frequency bands. Licensed frequency bands may be frequency bands which have been licensed by an authoritative entity such as a government agency for exclusive use by a particular wireless network service provider. In some situations the base station may also provide service according to one or more shared frequency bands. Shared frequency bands may be frequency bands that have been authorized e.g. by an authoritative entity for use by multiple wireless network service providers.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Wireless network service providers may obtain licenses e.g. exclusive or priority licenses to operate wireless networks at certain frequency bands licensed frequency bands . Wireless network service providers may also obtain licenses to operate wireless networks at shared frequency bands which may be shared with other wireless network service providers. Access to a shared frequency band may be controlled by an owner or an incumbent associated with the shared frequency band or an authoritative entity such as a governmental agency . In some situations a shared access system SAS manager may provide control messages to licensees of a shared frequency band which may indicate permissions or other parameters by which licensees of the shared frequency band may operate e.g. an amount of load permitted for a particular licensee to incur on the shared frequency band a transmit strength permitted for a radio that operates at the shared frequency band etc. .

Systems and methods provided herein may provide techniques for load balancing among licensed frequency bands and shared frequency bands. For example as shown in a base station may provide radio service according to two licensed frequency bands L and L and two shared frequency bands S and S . As shown two user devices UD and UD may be connected to the base station via S. In this example L and S may be associated with a relatively high measure of load e.g. a relatively large number of user devices may be connected to the base station via L and or S and L and S may be associated with a relatively low measure of load. As further shown UD may be on an active voice call while UD may be involved in a web browsing session.

An SAS manager may provide an instruction to the base station and or to a shared licensed SL load balancer which may instruct the base station to modify the utilization of S. For example the instruction may instruct the base station to reduce the load associated with S to a threshold level e.g. a maximum quantity of connections via S . The SL load balancer may determine whether the present load of S is above the specified threshold load and may determine which band or bands to which UD and UD should be handed off in order to satisfy the threshold. For example as described below the SL load balancer may make load balancing decisions based on for example a type of traffic associated with a user device e.g. whether the traffic is real time traffic such as a voice call or a video call and or a type of the user device e.g. whether the user device is a type of device that is typically associated with non real time communications such as a tablet device or a machine to machine M2M device .

Environment may include an evolved packet system EPS that includes a long term evolution LTE network and or an evolved packet core EPC network that operate based on a third generation partnership project 3GPP wireless communication standard. The LTE network may be or may include a radio access network RAN that includes one or more base stations some or all of which may take the form of an evolved node B eNB via which user device may communicate with the EPC network. The EPC network may include one or more SGWs PGWs and or MMEs and may enable user device to communicate with PDN and or an Internet protocol IP multimedia subsystem IMS core network. The IMS core network may include HSS AAA server and may manage authentication session initiation account information a user profile etc. associated with user device .

User device may include any computation and communication device such as a wireless mobile communication device that is capable of communicating with base station and or PDN . For example user device may include a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. a device that combines a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a smart phone a laptop computer a tablet computer a camera a personal gaming system or another type of mobile computation and communication device. User device may send traffic to and or receive traffic from PDN via base station backhaul network MLS SGW and or PGW .

Base station may include one or more network devices that receive process and or transmit traffic such as calls audio video text and or other data destined for and or received from user device . In one example base station may be an eNB device and may be part of the LTE network. Additionally or alternatively one or more other base stations may be associated with a RAN that is not associated with the LTE network e.g. a wireless hot spot a wireless access point etc. . Base station may receive traffic from and or send traffic to user device via SGW PGW and or PDN . Base station may send traffic to and or receive traffic from user device via for example an air interface e.g. a cellular air interface .

Base station may be associated with one or more cells. A cell as used to herein may generally refer to a coverage area provided by base station . A particular cell may for example be associated with one or more radios pointed in the same general direction. The different radios may each be associated with a particular frequency band and or more than one radio may be associated with a particular frequency band. For example one or more radios may be associated with a licensed frequency band while one or more other radios of the cell may be associated with a shared frequency band. Base station may include processing logic and or hardware circuitry that may enable base station to perform inter frequency handovers. For example base station may hand over a particular user device from one frequency band to another frequency band e.g. from a licensed frequency band to another licensed frequency band from a shared frequency band to another shared frequency band from a shared frequency band to a licensed frequency band or from a licensed frequency band to a shared frequency band . Base station may also perform intra frequency handovers e.g. hand over a particular user device from one sub band to another sub band of a particular frequency band and or may perform inter radio access technology RAT handovers e.g. may hand over a particular user device from one RAT to another RAT . Base station may modify parameters such as radio transmit strength associated with shared frequency bands based on access permissions provided by SAS manager .

SL load balancer may include one or more devices that perform load balancing of user devices with respect to various carriers where a carrier may refer to a particular frequency band a particular frequency sub band and or a particular RAT associated with base station . For example SL load balancer may determine measures of load associated with particular carriers associated with base station and may make handover decisions based on the measures of load. For example if a first carrier is relatively overloaded while a second carrier is relatively underutilized SL load balancer may output an instruction to base station to hand over one or more user devices connected to the first carrier to the second carrier. As described herein the load balancing decisions made by SL load balancer may be based on one or more other factors. For instance SL load balancer may make load balancing decisions based on access permissions to shared frequency bands provided by SAS manager . Additionally or alternatively SL load balancer may make load balancing decisions based on factors such as a device type of user device and or a traffic type associated with user device .

While one base station and one SL load balancer are shown in e.g. a one to one arrangement other arrangements are possible in practice. For example in some implementations one SL load balancer may perform load balancing for multiple base stations . In some implementations some portions of SL load balancer e.g. as discussed below with respect to may perform some functionality associated with multiple base stations while other portions of SL load balancer may be arranged on a one to one basis with base stations .

SAS manager may include one or more devices that provide information such as access permissions to base station and or SL load balancer . The access permissions may indicate for example a level of access permitted to a particular shared frequency band. For example access permissions may indicate a maximum transmit strength associated with a particular shared frequency band may specify a permissible coverage area or radius associated with a particular shared frequency band and or may indicate a maximum measure of permissible load e.g. a maximum quantity of permitted user devices a maximum amount of permitted throughput etc. associated with a particular shared frequency band. SAS manager may be owned by operated by managed by and or receive information from an entity that owns a license to operate and or control access to a shared frequency band such as an incumbent and or a governmental agency.

Backhaul network may include one or more network devices e.g. routers and or switches and links e.g. fiber or coaxial links that connect base station to a core network e.g. a core network that includes and or is associated with MLS SGW and or PGW .

MLS may include one or more network devices that perform switching functionality on traffic received from SGW and or backhaul network . MLS may operate multiple layers of the Open Systems Interconnection OSI reference model in contrast with other types of switches that traditionally operate only on the Data Link Layer DLL . For example MLS may perform deep packet inspection to perform routing functions.

SGW may include one or more network devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner described herein. SGW may for example aggregate traffic received from one or more base stations and may send the aggregated traffic to PDN via PGW .

PGW may include one or more network devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner described herein. PGW may aggregate traffic received from one or more SGWs etc. and may send the aggregated traffic to PDN . PGW may also or alternatively receive traffic from PDN and may send the traffic toward user device via base station and SGW .

MME may include one or more computation and communication devices that perform operations to register user device with the EPS to establish bearer channels associated with a session with user device to hand off user device from the EPS to another network to hand off user device from the other network to the EPS and or to perform other operations. MME may perform policing operations on traffic destined for and or received from user device .

HSS AAA server may include one or more devices that manage update and or store in a memory associated with HSS AAA server profile information associated with a subscriber. The profile information may identify applications and or services that are permitted for and or accessible by the subscriber a mobile directory number MDN associated with the subscriber bandwidth or data rate thresholds associated with the applications and or services information associated with the subscriber e.g. a username a password etc. rate information minutes allowed for a subscriber e.g. a subscriber associated with user device information regarding services to which particular subscribers are subscribed e.g. communication services such as video conferencing services voice chat services etc. and or other information. Additionally or alternatively HSS AAA server may perform authentication authorization and or accounting operations associated with the subscriber and or a communication session with user device .

PCRF may include one or more devices that aggregate information to and from the EPC network and or other sources. PCRF may receive information regarding policies and or subscriptions from one or more sources such as subscriber databases and or from one or more users such as for example an administrator associated with PCRF .

PDN may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example PDN may include an Internet Protocol IP based PDN a wide area network WAN such as the Internet a core network of a telecommunications provider a private enterprise network and or one or more other networks. User device may connect through PGW to data servers application servers other user devices content provider and or to other servers or applications that are coupled to PDN . PDN may be connected to one or more other networks such as a public switched telephone network PSTN a public land mobile network PLMN and or another network. While direct connections are shown in between certain devices some devices may communicate with each other via PDN . For example SAS manager may communicate with base station and or SL load balancer indirectly such as via PDN and or another network.

SAS manager interface may include an interface which may be an implementation of a particular application programming interface API via which SL load balancer may receive communications from SAS manager . The API may in some implementations be defined by an owner and or operator of SAS manager . Additionally or alternatively messaging and or security protocols via which SL load balancer and SAS manager communicate may be defined by an owner and or operator of SAS manager . The communications may include for example access permissions associated with one or more shared frequency bands associated with one or more base stations .

User device information module may receive and or store information regarding user devices connected to base station . For example user device information module may receive the information from base station and or another device that obtains and or stores user device information. In some implementations user device information module may request user device information directly from user devices . The user device information may include for example information indicating a device type e.g. whether the device is a mobile telephone a tablet device an M2M device a desktop computer etc. and or a type of traffic presently being sent and or received by the device e.g. voice call traffic video call traffic file transfer traffic web browsing traffic instant messaging traffic etc. . User device information module may additionally or alternatively receive other information such as received signal strength indicator RSSI values associated with user devices . For example a particular RSSI value may indicate a received signal strength for a particular user device of a signal via a particular carrier.

Cell analytics module may receive and or store analytics information regarding one or more cells associated with base station . For example the cell analytics information may indicate how loaded the cells are and may be on a per carrier basis. For a particular cell the cell analytics information may indicate how loaded each carrier associated with the particular cell is. For instance a particular carrier may be considered as being highly loaded when a relatively large quantity of user devices are connected to base station via the carrier. As another example a measure of load may indicate how many resource blocks associated with a particular carrier have been utilized and or how many resource blocks are available. Cell analytics module may receive analytics information regarding one cell e.g. carriers associated with one cell or more than one cell e.g. carriers associated with two or more cells . Cell analytics module may receive the analytics information from base station and or from another device e.g. a device that communicates with one or more base stations in order to determine the analytics information . The cell analytics information may be real time or near real time information. For example cell analytics module may receive up to date analytics information as the information is collected or generated.

Load balancing module may perform load balancing operations based on shared access permissions e.g. received from SAS manager interface user device information e.g. received from user device information module and or analytics information e.g. received from cell analytics module . For example load balancing module may receive access permission information for a particular shared frequency band indicating a maximum level of load for the particular shared frequency band. Load balancing module may determine based on cell analytics information whether the particular shared frequency band is overloaded. If the particular shared frequency band is overloaded load balancing module may determine which user device s to hand over to a different frequency band and may further determine to which frequency band s user device s should be handed over. described below illustrates an example implementation of how load balancing module may perform the load balancing. In some implementations and or in some situations load balancing module may additionally perform conventional load balancing in which load balancing decisions may be made without regard to whether a particular carrier is associated with a shared frequency band or a licensed frequency band. Additionally or alternatively load balancing module may be used in conjunction with a conventional or other load balancer.

Base station interface may include an interface such as an implementation of an API and or another type of interface via which SL load balancer may communicate with one or more base stations . For example SL load balancer may receive information regarding user devices e.g. RSSI information traffic type information device type information and or carriers associated with base station e.g. cell analytics information via base station interface . SL load balancer may output instructions such as handover instructions to base station via base station interface .

As shown process may include receiving at an instruction to reduce the utilization of a shared frequency band to a threshold amount. For example SL load balancer may receive e.g. via SAS manager interface an instruction from SAS manager indicating a threshold measure of load for the shared frequency band. The threshold measure of load may indicate a permissible amount of load that a particular base station may utilize via the shared frequency band. The threshold measure of load may correspond to in some situations a non zero measure of load that is lower than an amount of load presently e.g. at the time the instruction is received being utilized via the shared frequency band by base station .

Process may also include ranking at active user devices connected via the shared frequency band according to RSSI values. For example as described above SL load balancer may store and or receive e.g. via base station interface and or another interface RSSI values associated with user devices that are connected to base station via the shared frequency band. SL load balancer may rank active user devices e.g. user devices that are involved in ongoing communication sessions based on the RSSI values. The highest ranked user device in accordance with some implementations may be the particular user device with the highest RSSI value.

Process may include a looping set of blocks which may begin at with the highest ranked user device e.g. the particular user device with the highest ranked RSSI value . Blocks may be performed iteratively for multiple user devices and are described below in the context of a single iteration for a single particular user device .

Process may include determining at whether the particular user device is presently involved in a real time communication session. For example SL load balancer may determine a type of the active communication session by for example receiving information from base station or another device that may indicate the type of the active communication session. For example the type of communication session may be determined based on contents of traffic being sent to and or from user device e.g. using deep packet inspection based on traffic header information which may indicate for instance one or more protocols via which the traffic is being sent and or an application associated with the traffic and or based on other information e.g. information generated by or provided from another source such as from user device a network device that routes the traffic and or from a communication server with which user device communicates . For example the type of traffic e.g. voice call traffic video call traffic file transfer traffic etc. may be determined based on protocols or codecs indicated the header information or the content of the traffic and or may be explicitly identified in information provided from another source.

Certain types of traffic such as voice call traffic or video call traffic may be considered to be associated with real time or time sensitive communication sessions while other types of traffic may be considered to be associated with non real time or non time sensitive communication sessions such as file transfer traffic web browsing traffic video streaming traffic etc. . In some implementations certain types of traffic may be specifically designated as being associated with real time communications and types of traffic that have not been so designated may be considered as not being associated with real time communications.

If the user device is involved in a real time communication session at YES then process may include handing off at the user device to the least loaded licensed band. For example SL load balancer may generate an instruction that causes base station to hand user device over from the shared frequency band to the least loaded licensed band associated with base station . For instance as mentioned above SL load balancer may identify the least loaded licensed frequency band based on cell analytics information e.g. as received by cell analytics module . The term handing off as used herein may refer to the generating of an instruction that causes base station to hand user device from one carrier to another or otherwise notifying base station that user device should be handed over from one carrier to another .

If the user device is not involved in a real time communication session at NO then process may include determining at whether the user device is a type of device that is typically involved in real time communications. For example as described above with respect to user device information module SL load balancer may receive and or store information identifying a device type associated with user device . The device type information may indicate for example whether user device is a mobile telephone a tablet computer an M2M device a desktop computer and or another type of device. Additionally or alternatively the user device information may include a hardware or a part number based on which the device type may be determined e.g. based on comparing the hardware or part number to data that correlates hardware or part numbers to device names and or device types .

Certain types of devices may be considered as devices that are typically involved in real time communications such as mobile telephones while other types of devices may be considered as devices that are not typically involved in real time communications such as tablet computers M2M devices or desktop computers. In some implementations certain types of devices may be specifically designated as being typically involved in real time communications and devices that have not been so designated may be considered as not typically involved in real time communications.

If the user device is not of a type that is typically involved in real time communications at block NO then process may include handing off at the user device to the least loaded shared frequency band available. For example SL load balancer may generate an instruction that causes base station to hand user device over from the shared frequency band to the least loaded available shared frequency band associated with base station i.e. a different band than the shared frequency band via which user device is presently connected . For instance as mentioned above SL load balancer may identify the least loaded shared frequency band based on cell analytics information e.g. as received by cell analytics module .

If no shared frequency bands are available at then SL load balancer may hand off user device to a licensed frequency band. For instance SL load balancer may hand off user device to the least loaded licensed frequency band. Additionally or alternatively SL load balancer may identify a licensed frequency band other than the least loaded licensed frequency band using other load balancing techniques and may hand off user device to the identified licensed frequency band.

If the user device is not involved in a real time communication session and is of a type that is typically involved in real time communications at NO and YES then process may include handing off at the user device to the least loaded available frequency band e.g. without regard to whether the frequency band is a licensed frequency band or a shared frequency band . Additionally or alternatively SL load balancer may identify a band other than the least loaded frequency band using other load balancing techniques and may hand off user device to the identified frequency band. In some implementations in lieu of handing off at user device to another frequency band SL load balancer may forgo handing off user device and user device may remain on the same shared frequency band. Due to the iterative nature of process user device may be handed off at a later time e.g. during another iteration of process and or as part of a different process .

Once a handover decision has been made e.g. at or process may include determining at whether the utilization of the shared frequency band is at or below the threshold amount. For example SL load balancer may receive cell analytics information e.g. via cell analytics module regarding the shared frequency band. The cell analytics information may reflect an amount of load associated with the shared frequency band after user device has been handed over e.g. at or .

If the utilization of the shared frequency band is not at or below the threshold amount at NO then blocks may be iteratively repeated continue for next user device at for the next most highly ranked device in the ranking generated at . If blocks have been performed for all user devices connected to a particular base station process may cease. In some implementations some or all of process may be repeatedly in an iterative manner if blocks have been performed for all user devices connected to a particular base station . For example after blocks have been performed for the lowest ranked user device portions of process e.g. blocks may be repeated. That is for example a new ranking may be generated at and blocks may be iteratively performed based on the new ranking and or blocks may be iteratively performed based on the previous ranking. If on the other hand the utilization of the shared frequency band is at or below the threshold amount at YES then process may end at .

As shown in four user devices UD UD UD and UD may be connected to a base station. UD UD and UD may be connected via a shared frequency band SB while UD may be connected via licensed frequency band LB . In the example shown in the relative coverage areas e.g. the distance from the base station in which user devices can receive wireless service of LB and SB are approximately equal. Thus since UD UD are within the respective coverage areas of LB and SB UD UD may receive wireless service as indicated by the SB and LB markings as well as the connection indicator in the figure .

As shown in the base station may have modified the transmit power of a radio associated with SB SB modification thus reducing the coverage area of SB. For example the transmit power may have been reduced based on an instruction from SAS manager . Based on modifying the transmit power of the SB radio UD and UD which are outside of the new SB coverage area may not receive service via SB as indicated by the X over UD and UD in the figure . In order to receive wireless service UD and UD may search for the base station using other carriers such as LB.

In situations where many user devices are utilizing a shared frequency band abruptly reducing the radio transmit power may cause an overload at the base station which may receive a large number of new connection requests over licensed carriers or other carriers of which user devices are in range . Thus it may be beneficial to reduce transmit power of a radio associated with a shared band in a staggered manner so that the base station can handle multiple smaller groups of new connection requests as opposed to attempting to handle a large number of new connection requests at once.

The base station may reduce the transmit power of the particular radio over a particular duration of time T which may be the difference between times tand t. In some implementations the time T may be specified by the instruction from SAS manager and or may be derived from the instruction provided by SAS manager . For example the instruction may specify an absolute time at which the transmit power should be reduced to the target transmit power and or may specify an amount of time from which the instruction was sent and or received after which the transmit power should be reduced to the target transmit power.

At intermediate times tand tbetween times tand t the transmit power of the particular radio may be progressively reduced to intermediate levels e.g. power levels between the original and target transmit powers such that the resulting coverage distances are respectively xand x where xand xare intermediate distances between xand x . In some implementations the transmit power may be reduced in a discrete manner e.g. distinct reductions at times t t and t . In some implementations the transmit power may be reduced in a continuous manner. When reduced in a continuous manner the transmit power may be reduced linearly exponentially logarithmically and or in another continuous manner.

The transmit powers described with respect to the above example may refer to maximum transmit powers. For example at time t the maximum transmit power for the radio may be a power at which coverage may be provided at a distance of x. However for sub carriers associated with certain user devices that are closer to the base station the base station may provide the shared frequency band at a lower transmit power than the maximum transmit power at time t.

In other implementations the transmit powers described with respect to the above figure may refer to the transmit power of the radio associated with the entire particular shared frequency band. That is at time t for example the transmit power of the radio may be set at the level at which coverage is provided at the distance of x.

As shown process may include receiving at an instruction to reduce the transmit power of a radio associated with a shared frequency band. For instance base station may receive the instruction from SAS manager . As mentioned above the transmit power may be specified in the instruction e.g. in terms of absolute power levels such as a Decibel milliwatt dBm value and or may be derived from the instruction e.g. in implementations where the instruction specifies a maximum coverage range for the shared frequency band for base station .

Process may also include determining at a time by which the transmit power should be reduced to the specified transmit power. For example the instruction may include an absolute time by which the transmit power should be reduced. As another example the instruction may include a duration of time from which the instruction was received by base station and or from another reference point after which the transmit power should be reduced. As yet another example other factors such as conventions set forth in one or more standards may influence or dictate the time which the transmit power should be reduced.

Process may further include reducing at the transmit power in a discrete or continuous fashion to intermediate levels prior to the determined time. For example as discussed above with respect to base station may reduce the transmit power to one or more levels that are between the original transmit power e.g. before the instruction was received at and the transmit power specified in the instruction.

Bus may include one or more communication paths that permit communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor microprocessor or processing logic that may interpret and execute instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that may store information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that may store information for use by processor .

Input component may include a mechanism that permits an operator to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a button a switch etc. Output component may include a mechanism that outputs information to the operator such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface or the like. Communication interface may include a wireless communication device such as an infrared IR receiver a Bluetooth radio or the like. The wireless communication device may be coupled to an external device such as a remote control a wireless keyboard a mobile telephone etc. In some embodiments device may include more than one communication interface . For instance device may include an optical interface and an Ethernet interface.

Device may perform certain operations relating to one or more processes described above. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions stored in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the possible implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

For example while series of blocks have been described with regard to the order of the blocks and or signals may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks and or signals may be performed in parallel.

The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement an embodiment is not limiting of the embodiment. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiment has been described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware may be designed based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

Further while certain connections or devices are shown in practice additional fewer or different connections or devices may be used. Furthermore while various devices and networks are shown separately in practice the functionality of multiple devices may be performed by a single device or the functionality of one device may be performed by multiple devices. Further multiple ones of the illustrated networks may be included in a single network or a particular network may include multiple networks. Further while some devices are shown as communicating with a network some such devices may be incorporated in whole or in part as a part of the network.

Additionally while the above disclosure describes implementations in the context of handovers between licensed and shared frequency bands similar concepts may be used for handovers between other licensed and shared carriers. For example the above techniques may be used to hand over a user device from a first carrier that is associated with a first RAT and a licensed frequency band to a second carrier that is associated with a second RAT and a shared frequency band. As another example while were described in the context of a base station lowering the transmit power of a particular radio and or determining a manner in which the transmit power of a radio should be lowered in practice an external device in communication with the base station may perform the determining and or may instruct the base station as to the manner in which the transmit power should be lowered. Furthermore while described in the context of one carrier a user device may be simultaneously connected to a base station via multiple carriers e.g. one or more shared bands and or one or more licensed band and load balancing may be performed in a manner consistent with the examples described above with respect to one or more of the multiple carriers.

To the extent the aforementioned embodiments collect store or employ personal information provided by individuals it should be understood that such information shall be used in accordance with all applicable laws concerning protection of personal information. Additionally the collection storage and use of such information may be subject to consent of the individual to such activity for example through well known opt in or opt out processes as may be appropriate for the situation and type of information. Storage and use of personal information may be in an appropriately secure manner reflective of the type of information for example through various encryption and anonymization techniques for particularly sensitive information.

Some implementations described herein may be described in conjunction with thresholds. The term greater than or similar terms as used herein to describe a relationship of a value to a threshold may be used interchangeably with the term greater than or equal to or similar terms . Similarly the term less than or similar terms as used herein to describe a relationship of a value to a threshold may be used interchangeably with the term less than or equal to or similar terms . As used herein exceeding a threshold or similar terms may be used interchangeably with being greater than a threshold being greater than or equal to a threshold being less than a threshold being less than or equal to a threshold or other similar terms depending on the context in which the threshold is used.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. An instance of the use of the term and as used herein does not necessarily preclude the interpretation that the phrase and or was intended in that instance. Similarly an instance of the use of the term or as used herein does not necessarily preclude the interpretation that the phrase and or was intended in that instance. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with the phrase one or more. Where only one item is intended the terms one single only or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

