---

title: Self-aligned capillarity-assisted microfabrication
abstract: A manufacturing process, which we term Self-Aligned Capillarity-Assisted Lithography for manufacturing devices having nano-scale or micro-scale features, such as flexible electronic circuits, is described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09401306&OS=09401306&RS=09401306
owner: REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA
number: 09401306
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141111
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 902 661 filed on Nov. 11 2013 which application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety to the extent that it does not conflict with the disclosure presented herein.

This invention was made with government support under N00014 11 1 0690 awarded by the Office of Naval Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This disclosure generally relates to among other things methods of manufacturing flexible electronics and the resulting flexible electronics.

It is widely recognized that flexible electronics will greatly expand the application space for microelectronics and deliver new functional capabilities in a variety of commercial areas. In light of this well recognized potential one immediate challenge is to develop a robust manufacturing platform to achieve fast low power circuits on substrates such as plastic rubber paper and metal foil. Previous demonstrations of flexible electronic systems have largely focused on integration of conventional silicon CMOS onto plastic or rubber sheets using mechanical transfer. Such lithography intensive pick and place paradigms may not be able to provide cost and area scaling necessary for many of envisioned applications and may not be able to deliver all the desired functions e.g. optical transparency .

This disclosure describes among other things methods for manufacturing high performance multi functional flexible electronics systems over large areas in a cost effective manner. In some embodiments a manufacturing process referred to herein as Self Aligned Capillarity Assisted Lithography for Electronics or SCALE is described. The SCALE process can be used to produce flexible electronic circuits. In some embodiments SCALE can be used to produce devices and circuits that are not or are not purely electronic circuits. For example SCALE can be used to produce devices or components for use in optics such as photonics plasmonics and nano optics.

In various embodiments SCALE can be an additive manufacturing process meaning valuable materials such as electronic materials can be patterned only in areas where they are required. In various embodiments SCALE can be self aligned which decreases long standing complications associated with registering multiple layers of materials. In various embodiments SCALE can be highly parallel meaning many devices can be fabricated simultaneously. In various embodiments SCALE can be scalable in terms of device dimensions from millimeters or more to down to at least hundreds of nm and potentially smaller. In various embodiments SCALE can be high throughput e.g. it can be implemented for continuous roll to roll manufacture. In various embodiments SCALE can be two or more of additive self aligned highly parallel scalable and high throughput. In some embodiments SCALE is additive self aligned highly parallel scalable and high throughput.

It will be understood that processes other than lithography can be used to produce structured substrates as described herein. Any suitable process that can produce substrates having features such as microchannels having a dimension such as height or width of about 500 micrometers or less can be employed. In some embodiments the process can produce substrates having features having a dimension of 100 micrometers or less such as 50 micrometers or less or 10 micrometers or less. Examples of such processes include imprint lithography microreplication embossing etching 3D printing extrusion and the like or combinations thereof.

In various embodiments described herein a method for forming an electronic device includes i providing a substrate having a microchannel and a reservoir in communication with the microchannel and ii disposing a first ink comprising a first electronic material in the reservoir to cause the first ink to move via capillarity through the microchannel. In embodiments the substrate is molded via imprint lithography. The first ink may be dried leaving a first electronic material in the channel. A second ink comprising a second electronic material may be deposited in the first reservoir to cause to cause the second ink to move via capillarity through the microchannel over the first electronic material.

In various embodiments described herein a method for forming an electronic device includes a providing a substrate having a microchannel and first and second reservoirs in communication with the microchannel b disposing a first fluid composition comprising a liquid carrier and a first electronic material in the first reservoir to cause the first fluid composition to move via capillarity through the microchannel c evaporating at least a portion of the liquid carrier of the first liquid composition leaving the first electronic material in the channel and d disposing a second liquid composition comprising a liquid carrier and a second electronic material in the second reservoir to cause the second liquid composition to move via capillarity through the microchannel over the first electronic material.

In various embodiments described herein a method includes providing a flexible substrate for an electronic device the substrate having a plurality of channels and a plurality of reservoirs defined therein wherein a first of the plurality of channels is in fluid communication with a first of the plurality of reservoirs wherein a second of the plurality of channels is in communication with a second of the plurality of reservoirs and wherein the first and second channels are both in communication with a third of the plurality of reservoirs. The method further includes a disposing a first fluid composition comprising a liquid carrier and first electronic material in the first reservoir to cause the first fluid composition to move via capillarity through the first channel b disposing a second fluid composition comprising a liquid carrier and a second electronic material in the second reservoir to cause the second liquid composition to move via capillarity through the second channel and c disposing a third fluid composition comprising a liquid carrier and a third electronic material in the third reservoir to cause the ink to move via capillarity through the first channel and second channels.

Any of the methods outlined above may be carried out in whole or in part on a roll to roll apparatus.

In embodiments described herein an electronic device includes i a substrate ii a patterned polymer disposed on the substrate wherein the patterned polymer defines a first microchannel in communication with a first reservoir and iii a first electronic material disposed into the first microchannel. The patterned polymer may further define a second microchannel in communication with the first reservoir and the first electronic material is disposed in the second microchannel. In some embodiments the patterned polymer may further define a third microchannel in communication the first reservoir the third microchannel is disposed over the first microchannel and the second microchannel if present wherein a second electronic material is disposed in the third microchannel wherein at least a portion of the second electronic material is disposed on the first electronic material in the first microchannel and in the second microchannel if present . In some embodiments the patterned polymer further defines a fourth microchannel in communication a second reservoir the fourth microchannel is disposed over the first microchannel and the second microchannel if present wherein a second electronic material is disposed in the third microchannel wherein at least a portion of the second electronic material is disposed on the first electronic material in the first microchannel and in the second microchannel if present .

The schematic drawings are not necessarily to scale. Like numbers used in the figures refer to like components steps and the like. However it will be understood that the use of a number to refer to a component in a given figure is not intended to limit the component in another figure labeled with the same number. In addition the use of different numbers to refer to components is not intended to indicate that the different numbered components cannot be the same or similar.

In the following detailed description several specific embodiments of compounds compositions apparatuses systems and methods are disclosed. It is to be understood that other embodiments are contemplated and may be made without departing from the scope or spirit of the present disclosure. The following detailed description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense.

This disclosure generally relates to inter alia flexible devices which may include for example high performance integrated circuits on flexible stretchable conformal and impact resistant substrates for applications in robotics e.g. e skins wearable health diagnostics drug delivery distributed sensing and human machine interfacing. Processes for manufacturing such devices are described herein.

In various embodiments articles described herein are formed from a substrate that defines one or more microchannels and one or more reservoirs. One or more microchannel is in fluid communication with one or more reservoirs. A liquid composition is disposed in a reservoir and the composition moves through the one or more microchannels in communication with the reservoir via capillarity. In some embodiments the liquid composition contains a liquid carrier and a material of interest. In some embodiments the liquid carrier is evaporated leaving the material of interest deposited in one or more microchannels and reservoir.

Any suitable flexible article may be manufactured using the processes described herein. In some embodiments the article is an electronic article. In some embodiments the article is an optics article such as a wave guide. Materials used to produce the articles described herein as well as the design and configuration of the articles described herein will determine they type of articles produced and their potential uses.

In some embodiments the articles described herein are not flexible. It will be understood that the materials selected and processes used will in part determine whether the resulting device is flexible or inflexible. In some embodiments a flexible device described herein can have a bending radius of 0.5 cm or less. In many embodiments a flexible device described herein has a bending radius of greater than 0.2 cm.

Examples of materials that can form flexible substrates include epoxies polyurethanes and the like. In some embodiments the substrate is formed from an epoxy.

It will be understood that the thickness of the substrate will contribute to flexibility with thinner substrates typically being more flexible than thicker substrates formed from the same material. In some embodiments a substrate of a device used herein has a thickness about 500 micrometers or less. For example the substrate may have a thickness of 400 micrometers or less 300 micrometers or less or 200 or less. Typically the substrate has a thickness of 20 micrometers or more such as 25 micrometers or more or 50 micrometers or more. A substrate as described herein may have a thickness in a range between any of the foregoing values.

A structured substrates as described herein can be produced by any suitable process that can produce substrates having features such as microchannels having a dimension such as height or width of about 500 micrometers or less can be employed. In some embodiments the process can produce substrates having features having a dimension of 100 micrometers or less such as 50 micrometers or less or 10 micrometers or less. Examples of such processes include imprint lithography microreplication embossing laser etching chemical etching 3D printing extrusion and the like or combinations thereof.

In some embodiments a polymerizable material such as epoxy resins or other polymerizable material that can be used to form the polymers described above is disposed on a polymeric film and the polymerizable material is cured on the film to produce the substrate. In some embodiments the film is a flexible thin film. Any suitable flexible thin film can be used. Examples of suitable flexible thin films include polyimide films polyethylene terephthalate PET films and the like.

Referring now to a portion of a device is shown. The device includes a substrate which in some embodiments can be flexible. The substrate defines a reservoir and a microchannel in fluid communication with the reservoir. A liquid composition is disposed in the reservoir . The microchannel reservoir and fluid composition are configured such that disposing of the liquid composition in the reservoir will cause the liquid composition to move through the microchannel via capillarity.

One of skill in the art will understand that a number of factors will affect the ability of a liquid composition to move through a microchannel via capillarity. Such factors include the width of the microchannel the depth of the microchannel the surface tension and adhesive forces between the liquid composition and the walls and base of the microchannel the viscosity of the liquid composition and the like. The volume of the reservoir and the volume of liquid composition disposed in the reservoir can also affect the ability of the liquid composition to move through the microchannel via capillarity. It has been found that for a given width of microchannel greater depth will tend to lead to larger travel lengths. Often travel length of the liquid composition through a microchannel will be limited by evaporation of a liquid carrier such as a solvent of the composition. Liquid compositions with lower vapor pressures can be used to enhance travel lengths. For example a high boiling point solvent can augment travel length of the liquid composition which can be useful for for example conductors interconnects and the like while a low boiling point solvent can result in shorter travel length which can be suitable for for example selective short length patterning of semiconductors dielectrics and the like. Alternatively covers or other apparatuses may be placed over the microchannels to reduce evaporation to enhance travel length.

A microchannel can have any suitable width and depth which can in part be determined by one or more of the factors described above or a desired characteristic of the material to be deposited in the microchannel. For example if conductive material is deposited in the microchannel to form a conductor the cross sectional area of the deposited material as well as the properties of the material itself can affect for example the durability or conductivity of the conductor.

In some embodiments a microchannel can have a width or depth in a range from about 50 nanometers to about 100 micrometers. For purposes of this disclosure microchannels within such ranges of widths and depths are considered microchannels. In some embodiments a microchannel can have a width or depth in a range from about 100 nanometers to about 50 micrometers.

Reservoirs as described herein will typically have a depth that is the same as the depth of a microchannel with which it is in communication. Reservoirs can have upper apertures defined by the substrate of any suitable diametric dimensions width diameter etc. . In some embodiments the reservoirs have diametric dimensions in a range from about 50 micrometers to about 500 micrometers.

The reservoir has a width greater than the microchannel . In the depicted embodiment the reservoir has a width of 100 micrometers. It will be understood that the reservoir can have any suitable width and that the width of 100 micrometers depicted in is shown for purposes of illustration of one suitable width. The dimensions of an upper aperture of the reservoir e.g. width diameter etc. defined by the substrate can be sufficiently large to allow the liquid composition to be disposed in the reservoir .

The liquid composition can be deposited in the reservoir in any suitable manner such as pouring funneling printing and the like. In the depicted embodiment the liquid composition is deposited in the reservoir via an ink jet print head which dispenses the liquid composition in 20 micrometer diameter droplets. It will be understood that the droplets of liquid composition can have any suitable size and that the 20 micrometer droplets depicted in are shown for purposes of illustration of one suitable diameter. Ink jet printers or other printers or dispensing apparatuses that dispense a liquid composition in 20 micrometer droplets or other size droplets streams etc. can be employed.

Any suitable liquid composition may be employed in accordance with the teachings presented herein. In some embodiments the liquid composition includes a liquid carrier and an electronic material. An electronic material is a material having properties desired for use in electronic devices. Examples of electronic material include conductive material dielectric material semiconductor material and the like. The liquid carrier of the liquid composition can be a solvent or other suitable liquid carrier in which the electronic material can dissolved suspended or the like. In some embodiments the liquid composition is an electronic ink. As used herein an electronic ink is a liquid composition comprising one or more electronic material that is configured for deposition via a printing technique such as an ink jet printing technique. Some examples of suitable electronic inks are described below.

In some embodiments a liquid composition includes a liquid carrier and an optical material. As used herein an optical material is a material having a characteristic desired for used in an optical device. For example different optical materials may have different optical characteristics such as different indices of refraction. Materials having differing indices of refraction can be employed in for example a light guide or other suitable device to guide light within a microchannel of a device as described herein.

In some embodiments the liquid carrier is evaporated from the microchannel leaving the material of interest such as the electronic material or the optical material in the microchannel. Evaporation can be enhanced by heat low humidity conditions or the like or combinations thereof. When the liquid carrier is removed the remaining material of interest may not fill the microchannel. In some embodiments the microchannel can be left partially filled with the deposited layer of material of interest. In other embodiments additional material can be deposited on the initially deposited layer of material of interest. The additional material can be the same or different from the initially deposited material of interest. One way to deposit additional material on top of the material of interest is to deposit a liquid composition comprising the additional material in the reservoir to cause the liquid composition with the additional material to move through the microchannel over the deposited material of interest. The liquid composition comprising the additional material can also include a liquid carrier which can be removed e.g. by evaporation leaving the additional material disposed on the first material of interest deposited in the microchannel. This process can be repeated one or more times to leave one or more layers within a microchannel.

In some embodiments a liquid carrier of the liquid composition can include polymerizable materials such as monomers. If the material is polymerized prior to evaporation of a substantial amount of the liquid composition or a component thereof the polymerized material and any other materials in the composition can completely or nearly completely fill the microchannel.

In some embodiments a process other than dispensing a liquid composition in the reservoir to cause the composition to move through the microchannel over a previously deposited layer can be used to deposit additional material on a layer of material in the microchannel. In some embodiments a metallic material is plated or deposited on the layer in the microchannel. Any suitable type of plating or deposition can be used. In some embodiments electroplating is used. In some embodiments electroless plating is used. In some embodiments material in the microchannel is pretreated so that the metallic material is selectively plated in the layer of material in the microchannel. In some embodiment no pretreatment is required for selective deposition. For example if the material in the microchannel is a metallic material such as silver pretreatment may not be needed because the metallic material in the microchannel can serve as a seed for selective deposition of the plated metal. Any suitable metallic material such as copper nickel etc. or alloys or combinations thereof can be plated on the material in the microchannel.

In some embodiments where the material in the microchannel is a conductive material it may be desirable to fill the channel with conductive material to provide desired electrical properties such as conductance and to provide durability particularly if the substrate is flexible. The size of the microchannel e.g. depth and height can also be controlled to provide desired electrical properties whether filled or not.

Referring now to schematic drawings of a process for disposing materials in a microchannels defined by a substrate of a device and a cross section of a portion of the device showing a microchannel during various stages of the process are shown. The upper right panel of is similar to except that the substrate forms a plurality of reservoirs and a plurality of microchannels . The substrate or the print head can be moved so that the liquid composition can be deposited in each of the appropriate reservoirs . Alternatively a plurality of print heads can be employed. In the upper left panel of liquid composition has been added to each of the reservoirs has moved through each of the microchannels. As indicated above a liquid carrier can be removed by for example evaporation to leave a layer of material of interest deposited in the microchannels and reservoirs. In the depicted embodiment the material of interest can be a metallic material such as silver. The device with deposited material of interest is introduced into a plating apparatus which is an electroless plating bath in the embodiment depicted. The metallic material of interest can serve as a seed layer for deposition of the metallic material such as copper which can be selectively be deposited on the seed layer in the microchannels see lower left panel of .

Referring now to a schematic cross sectional view of a microchannel through the process illustrated in is shown. Prior to deposition of a liquid composition in the reservoir the microchannel defined by the substrate is empty. After the liquid composition is deposited in a reservoir in communication with the microchannel the liquid composition moves through the microchannel via capillarity. A liquid carrier such as a solvent of the liquid composition is removed to leave a layer of material of interest deposited in the microchannel . Material serves as a seed layer for deposition of metallic material which in the depicted embodiment fills the microchannel. It will be understood that the extent to which material fills the microchannel can depend on the conditions with which material is deposited and the time allotted for deposition of material .

Any suitable device can be manufactured according to the processes described herein. In many embodiments the devices are electronic devices. Material deposited in the microchannels can serve as wires e.g. leads or conductors and material deposited in the reservoirs can serve as contacts. A number of electronic circuits that can be formed in accordance with the teachings presented herein as well as some embodiments of processes for forming the circuits are shown in for example .

Referring now to a substrate and process for forming a resistor is shown. As shown in the substrate defines a first reservoir and a first microchannel that is in communication with the first reservoir. The substrate also defines a second reservoir and a second microchannel that is in communication with the second reservoir and a third reservoir and a third microchannel that is in communication with the third reservoir. The first and second reservoirs are of the same or similar dimensions and can be formed at similar depths in the substrate . The third reservoir is larger than the first and second reservoirs and the third microchannel is wider than the first and second microchannels. The third reservoir and third microchannel can be at the same depth in the substrate that the first and second reservoirs and microchannels at a higher depth or can be above a major surface of the substrate. As shown in a liquid composition comprising a conductive material such as a silver ink can be disposed in the first and second reservoirs which causes the liquid composition to move through the first and second microchannels. A liquid carrier can be removed from the liquid composition to leave the conductive material in the first and second microchannels. A second liquid composition containing a resistive material such as carbon black can be dispensed in the third reservoir to cause the second liquid composition to move through the third microchannel . A liquid carrier can be removed from the second liquid composition if needed to leave the resistive material disposed in the third microchannel . The conductive material in the first and second reservoirs can serve as electrical contacts. Electricity flowing from one contact to the other passes through the resistive material deposited by the second liquid composition . Accordingly the device forms a resistor.

In an image of a formed substrate for use in manufacturing a TFT is depicted. A 50 micrometer scale bar is depicted to provide an indication of the size of the various features defined by the substrate such as microchannels 

TFT devices having an epoxy substrate were tested. The channels for the source and the drain electrodes were 5 micrometers wide and 3 micrometers deep. The semiconductor channel was 40 micrometers in width and 6 micrometers in depth. The dielectric and gate channels are 60 micrometers in width and 50 micrometers in depth. Reservoirs for the source drain and semiconductor were 400 micrometers in diameter respectively. The reservoir for the gate and the dielectric is 500 micrometers in diameter. Transistor current voltage characteristics were measured using two Keithley 236 source measurement units and a Keithley 6517 electrometer. Results are presented in .

Any suitable electrical device or component can be made in accordance with the teachings presented herein. It is noted that the scale of the components that can be made according to the processes described herein can allow for high densities of circuit components. For example TFTs made in accordance with various embodiments presented herein can have a footprint of 300 500 square micrometers which can allow a device integration density of about 500 TFTs per square centimeter.

In reservoir is recessed in reservoir and microchannel is recessed in microchannel . A schematic cross section taken through line A A of is depicted in showing the nested aspects of reservoirs and . A schematic cross section taken through line B B of is depicted in showing the nested aspects of microchannels and . As shown in reservoirs and each can be considered nested portions of a larger reservoir in which reservoir defines a total reservoir volume that is the sum of the volume of reservoir and the volume of reservoir with reservoir being recessed relative to reservoir . As shown in microchannels and each can be considered nested portions of a larger microchannel in which microchannel defines a total cross sectional area that is the sum of the cross sectional area of microchannel and the cross sectional area of microchannel . Microchannel is recessed relative to microchannel and has a smaller width than microchannel . Discussion of additional or alternative processes that can be employed are discussed below with regard to for example .

A structured substrate as described herein e.g. with regard to above can be made in any suitable manner capable of producing micrometer scale features. In some embodiments imprint lithography is used to generate a structured substrate for forming a device as described herein. Referring now to an overview of one embodiment of an imprint lithography process that can be used to form a structure substrate is shown. In the depicted embodiment a silicon wafer master is created having reservoirs and microchannels of appropriate size shape and depth. A polymer such as polydimethylsiloxane PDMS disposed on the silicon master and cured to produce a polymer stamp . The polymer stamp can be peeled from the silicon master . Polymerizable material can be contacted with the stamp and cured while in contact with the stamp to produce the structured substrate . The stamp can be peeled from the substrate allowing the substrate to be used to manufacture a device as described herein. Any suitable polymerizable material can be used. One example of a suitable polymerizable material is epoxy resins. Examples of other polymerizable materials include those that can be used to form polymers as described above from which the substrate is formed. As depicted in the polymerizable material can be disposed on a polymeric film . In some embodiments the film and the substrate are flexible. In some embodiments the film or substrate are not flexible.

Any suitable equipment may be used in connection with the processes or one or more portions of the processes described herein. In embodiments a roll to roll imprinter such as a NanoEmboss 100 model roll to roll nanoimprinter may be used.

A schematic of an example of a nanoimprinter that may be used is depicted in . The instrument depicted in coats a moving web with an imprintable UV curable liquid film and then embosses the film with a patterned roll under UV irradiation to crosslink it. Subsequent process steps can include metrology or another coating and drying operation as shown in the scheme. Corona pretreatment not shown of the moving web is also an option to enhance adhesion of the imprint resist on the web substrate material. Such instruments are available with features such as automatic web tracking web speeds of 4 800 inches min and imprint feature sizes below 100 nm.

One strategy for producing high density circuits on flexible substrates is based on liquid phase coating printing and patterning operations carried out in an engineered roll to roll R2R sequence. To be successful the processing methods materials characteristics and circuit layout are being developed synergistically. Importantly liquid phase processing near room temperature offers several advantages including compatibility with plastic substrates and as will be shown below the possibility of additive self aligned materials deposition.

A central challenge perhaps the central challenge for R2R printed electronics is to align multiple layers of different materials with micron level tolerances or better . The precision alignment mechanisms typical of wafer based semiconductor fabrication facilities are generally not available for web handling equipment and it is a daunting proposition to think about how microscale devices can be fabricated on moving webs let alone nanoscale devices.

Accordingly the inventors have developed self aligning strategies for TFT and other flexible electronics or other device such as optical device fabrication that may be applied more generally to other flexible electronics or flexible electronic components or other devices. Self alignment means that sequential deposition of materials happens such that materials registration e.g. the registration of a dielectric layer over a semiconductor layer in a transistor occurs automatically without a time consuming registration process. It is clear that for high speed manufacturing of electronic devices self alignment is a major advantage particularly if the self aligning strategy is scalable in that it will work over a wide range of physical dimensions needed for electronic circuits e.g. from hundreds of microns down to 100 nm and below.

Hewlett Packard Inc. took a major step in this direction with their development of the Self Aligned Imprint Lithography SAIL process in the mid 2000 s. In the SAIL process all key materials are coated onto a web substrate and then a top coat resist is applied. The resist is imprinted with a topographical pattern thickness variations such that subsequent etching steps selectively remove specific underlayers metal semiconductor dielectric across the substrate. SAIL has been employed for the manufacture of TFT arrays and it has been implemented R2R. A major drawback of SAIL however is that it is a subtractive process. Materials are etched away. Even with a recovery process this is an expensive proposition.

Thus in addition to self alignment and scalability it is advantageous to design additive manufacturing approaches. In additive manufacturing materials are only deposited where they are needed and they are grown in the final required geometry e.g. 3D printing is an additive manufacturing technology . This eliminates material waste associated with subtractive processes such as etching or machining Additive manufacturing is environmentally friendly and also potentially more cost effective in the context of flexible electronics where some materials e.g. silver are moderately expensive.

Finally it is desirable that a new R2R process be parallel and high throughput by which it is meant respectively that many devices e.g. transistors capacitors and resistors can be manufactured quasi simultaneously across a substrate as opposed to one at a time serially and that the whole process can be accomplished on a continuously moving web.

To the inventors knowledge there is currently no established R2R manufacturing process that is simultaneously self aligning scalable additive parallel and high throughput. We propose that all of these process characteristics can be achieved by employing capillary flow of electronically functional liquid inks in microchannels carefully engineered onto the surface of a moving web substrate. We term this new process Self Aligned Capillarity Assisted Lithography for Electronics SCALE . In SCALE microchannels and reservoirs are molded into a coated thermoset material by imprint lithography. The dimensions of the channels may range from e.g. 100 nm to tens of microns reservoirs may be e.g. hundreds of microns. In various embodiments electronic inks are delivered to the reservoirs by drop on demand ink jet dispensers and the liquids drawn into and along the channels by capillarity fill relief patterns in a thermoset polymer. A photograph of this process occurring in microchannels obtained in preliminary work is shown in .

The process is self aligned because multiple inks can be delivered sequentially to prefabricated device cavities at the ends of the microchannels the other ends of which are connected to one or more reservoirs to form upon drying stacked layers of electronic materials. The process is also highly parallel because a single reservoir can deliver ink to produce many devices in parallel and multiple dispensers can be employed to fill many reservoirs simultaneously. SCALE is an additive method because material is only delivered to regions where it needs to be. A SCALE process may be used to manufacture any type of discrete electronic component such as resistors capacitors diodes and TFTs. In addition entire systems can be manufactured when SCALE is combined with an effective three dimensional interconnect strategy.

The reservoirs may serve as the source drain and gate electrode pads. Alternatively the layout in could be changed so that source drain and gate pads are formed separately upon each reservoir filling. Another step is to provide interconnects between the printed TFTs to complete a circuit. Examples of embodiments for processes for interconnects are described below.

One aspect of SCALE is controlling the flow of liquid inks from reservoirs down open capillary channels to thin film transistor device architectures. Capillary driven flow is suitable in small channels even down the micrometer and nanometer scale.

As an example consider the flow of liquid from a large reservoir into a closed rectangular capillary channel . For the liquid to enter into the capillary good wetting of the capillary walls low contact angle is preferred so that the flow is thermodynamically favorable In general a contact angle of less than around 5 10 is preferred. Once the liquid wets the capillary walls a curved meniscus forms leading to a pressure gradient between the reservoir and the capillary i.e. the capillary pressure P . This pressure difference drives flow down the capillary with viscous resistance provided by friction at the capillary walls. The classic Washburn equation describing the liquid front position x and the related expression for velocity are shown in . From these expressions the capillary filling speed for a given length of channel increases as the wettability of the walls increases i.e. decreases the viscosity of the liquid decreases the surface tension of the liquid increases and as the width of the channel increases for a given aspect ratio. More complex equations are available in the literature for flow in open capillary channels. Here the surface tension of the liquid plays an additional role in the thermodynamic condition for liquid entry into the channel and in the flow process itself. However again the general trend offered by the Washburn equation holds and provides guidance.

Several research groups have studied capillary flow in nanoscale closed capillaries with low aspect ratios w d . Capillary channels as narrow as 5 nm have been explored to date and the general approach in holds for simple liquids. Hence we do not expect that the size scale of the capillaries proposed here to be a limiting factor. Instead control of ink properties such as viscosity and surface tension the wettability of the capillary walls and the drying conditions will be carefully considered. In particular evaporation of the solvent from inks raises the viscosity and slows filling. However based on preliminary studies the time scale for filling is much shorter than that for evaporation and hence drying is not expected to limit the filling process.

The concept of using capillary driven flow for the construction of micromolded objects and devices has been explored. One notable example is the micromolding in capillaries MIMIC method. In this method a polydimethylsiloxane PDMS mold containing capillaries is placed on a substrate or support a drop of prepolymer or precursor liquid is placed in contact with mold capillary action draws the liquid in subsequent curing converts the liquid in the capillaries to solid and the mold is removed. This method has been adapted to patterning of a variety of materials on surfaces including polymers nanoparticles carbon nanotubes and organic semiconductors. A related method capillary force lithography involves pressing a PDMS pattern of capillaries onto a liquid coated substrate such that the liquid is pulled into the capillaries. The resulting pattern is set by cooling or curing. This method too has been combined with a variety of materials systems. Another approach uses the capillaries in the device or final structure. For example grooves created by hot embossing of a polymer have been filled with silver ink by capillary action to create a conductive network on the polymer surface. Further capillary channels created by photolithography have been used to place the organic semiconductor in an array of devices in which the other materials conductor and dielectric are formed by conventional processes.

This previous work establishes the importance and utility of capillary flow in materials processing. However to our knowledge a complete microelectronics fabrication platform in which all materials in an electronic device are patterned by a process such as SCALE has not been demonstrated previously

Liquid based processing by SCALE is possible in part because of rapid advancements in electronic ink development. However continued improvements are desirable as a diverse suite of materials is preferred for printed circuits including high conductivity metals for electrodes and interconnects high capacitance low leakage gate dielectrics for capacitors and thin film transistors TFTs and high mobility n type and p type semiconductors for complementary low power logic. Moreover the rheological properties of the inks are preferably tailored to the demands of the SCALE process. For example the viscosity of the ink is preferably low 10 50 mPa s for compatibility with inkjet print heads to fill the reservoirs and faster capillary filling rates. Also surface tension is preferably low for good wettability with the walls of the channels. For a water based ink this is achievable by adding a small amount of surfactant. Ink solvents are preferably appropriately chosen to ensure complete filling of the channels while minimizing drying during the filling process.

Ag based inks Cu based inks or other inks suitable for high speed large area manufacturing may be used with SCALE. When developing or using such inks the electrical resistivity of the dried deposit viscosity spreading resolution characteristics and the ink sintering temperature and time may be considered. For example less viscous ink formulations may be desired to facilitate both capillary flow for SCALE and droplet based printing through ultrafine nozzles diameter 100 nm . Inks such as Ag Sol ink comprising a particle and polymer free solution may be used in SCALE. In embodiments such inks such as Ag Sol inks exhibit low electrical resistivity 1.6 10 cm under ambient conditions as printed this resistivity is only 5 bigger than the bulk Ag resistivity.

Examples of printable formulations suitable for R2R SCALE are described in for example 1 T. J. Marks Materials for Organic and Hybrid Inorganic Organic Electronics in press December 2010 2 R. P Ortiz A. Facchetti and T. J. Marks High k Dielectrics for Low Voltage Organic Field Effect Transistors 110 205 239 2010 and 3 DiBenedetto S. Facchetti A. Ratner M. A. Marks T. J. Molecular Self Assembled Monolayers and Multilayers as Gate Dielectrics for Organic Thin Film Transistor Applications 21 1407 1433 2009 each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference to the extent that they do not conflict with the present disclosure.

Inks based on crosslinkable hybrid blends CHBs which involve organosilane linkers and either high k oxide or polyvinylphenolic building blocks such as those depicted in or described in for example Y. G. Ha A. Facchetti and T. J. Marks Flexible Low Voltage Organic Transistors Enabled by Low Temperature Ambient Solution Processed Inorganic Organic Hybrid Gate Dielectric Materials . in press 2010 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference to the extent that it does not conflict with the disclosure presented herein . These robust materials can be gravure printed to yield flexible organic and inorganic TFTs with excellent performance and compatibility with oxide semiconductors and may be optimized for use in SCALE aerosol jet and ink jet.

High capacitance ion gels such as those described in Printable Ion Gel Gate Dielectrics for Low Voltage Polymer Thin Film Transistors on Plastic 7 900 906 2008 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference to the extent that it does not conflict with the disclosure presented herein may be developed as printable dielectrics for capacitors and TFTs or other flexible electronics. Ion gels comprise non volatile ionic liquids and a gelating polymer that gives mechanical toughness and they can be printed from a common cosolvent evaporation of the solvent results in spontaneous formation of the gel. The specific capacitance of ion gels is enormous on the order of 10 F cm by virtue of the mobile ions. Aerosol jet printing of ion gel inks for ultra low voltage circuitry on plastic has been demonstrated. See for example 1 M. Ha Y. Xia A. A. Green W. Zhang M. J. Renn C. H. Kim M. C. Hersam and C. D. Frisbie Printed sub 3V digital circuits on plastic from aqueous carbon nanotube inks 4 4388 4395 2010 and 2 Y. Xia W. Zhang W. M. J. Ha J. H. Cho M. J. Renn C. H. Kim C. D. Frisbie Printed Sub 2V Gel Electrolyte Gated Polymer Transistors and Circuits 20 1 2010 each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference to the extent that they do not conflict with the present disclosure. Such ion gel inks are also compatible with the SCALE process data not shown . An attractive feature of the gels is that the capacitance is independent of the gel film thickness unlike other dielectrics. This feature allows new TFT or other flexible electronics geometries which will be described in more detail below. It also relaxes the precision with which thickness needs to be controlled during a printing operation. Such gels are typically thermally stable to about 250 C.

One of skill in the art will understand that parameters of dielectric inks such as specific capacitance breakdown strength and leakage currents may be varied as needed or desired. Many previously tested dielectric inks have an impressive combination of properties including high dielectric constants and capacitances 1 F cm high breakdown fields low leakage current densities excellent air and thermal stability radiation hardness and compatibility with solution phase processing. These materials are compatible with a wide range of semiconductors including carbon nanotubes oxide films and nanowires yielding devices with low operating voltages and excellent bias stress characteristics.

Any suitable semiconductor ink may be employed with SCALE. For example high mobility n type printable semiconductor inks that can be paired with p type semiconductor inks to make low power complementary circuits may be used with SCALE. In embodiments a printable n type materials based on amorphous transparent oxide semiconductors a TOSs can be used. When combined with printable gate dielectrics described above n type TFTs fabricated with TOSs display high mobilities up to 180 cm Vs large ON OFF current ratios up to 10 low threshold and operating voltages 

Complementary devices may be prepared by aerosol jet printing . A polymer semiconductor ink P3HT was used to form the p channel and a ZnO precursor ink was printed to form the n channel devices. Both the p and n type transistors have a printed high capacitance gate insulator that allows low operating voltages. The data in the right panel show excellent inverter behavior namely trip voltages at 1 V or below and scaling appropriately with V device gains above 10 low steady state power consumption 

Details of various embodiments of R2R SCALE Process Building Transistors Capacitors Resistors Diodes.

Building circuits requires approaches for making all device components i.e. TFTs capacitors resistors diodes and interconnects. The use of SCALE to make each of these components is described in further detail here. Some elements of R2R SCALE are i a template master consisting a broad range of feature sizes hundreds of nm to several m ii a flexible daughter stamp with desirable anti sticking and longevity properties and sufficient stiffness for patterning small features without deforming iii a fast curing flexible resist material capable of replicating features with good fidelity in short contact times and iv high performance electronic inks with tunable viscosities and surface tensions.

Depending upon the choice of the dielectric material TFTs or other flexible electronics can be fabricated by SCALE using two different template master designs. With a conventional dielectric e.g. high k polymers or inorganic oxides the traditional top gated bottom contact TFT stack can be generated by creating the pattern shown previously in . As mentioned before the lower cavity in the two tier design may be dedicated to patterning of the source and the drain electrodes. The upper level cavity can be subsequently filled with the semiconductor dielectric and the gate ink respectively. The size of the reservoirs may be set to 200 m providing an alignment tolerance greater than 100 m for the inkjet droplet. The line width of each of the source and the drain electrodes and the channel length can be kept to a minimum of 5 m so that the template master is processable using UV lithography. Multiple tiers in the template can be obtained using successive photolithography cycles. For example the source and drain reservoirs and their feeder lines may be etched down to a certain depth e.g. 5 m . The remaining features may then be aligned to the base layer and processed to a different depth in the subsequent photolithography cycle.

A second TFT design which can be applied to other electronics is based on the unique advantage afforded by ion gel gate insulators namely the ability to physically offset the gate electrode from the source drain channel thereby relaxing the strict requirement of precise registration of the gate electrode. Ion gel gated TFTs with a side gate architecture display the usual performance metrics but are slower due to the increased distance the ions need to travel between the source drain channel and the gate electrode. Using SCALE this offset can be minimized by an order of magnitude and potentially make low voltage devices with 1 MHz switching speed. An example device layout is shown in where the ratio of the channel width to channel length in the depicted embodiment is 10 m 500 nm and the gate electrode offset is 2 m. The cross section of the corresponding SCALE template is a four tier structure. For TFT fabrication the high resolution metal electrodes the source and the drain electrodes flanked by a split gate on either side can be patterned first. The semiconductor ink may be flowed down the middle cavity to cover the source drain channel eliminating or reducing the possibility of contact with the gate electrode. The ion gel ink delivered to the largest cavity swamps the split gates and the semiconductor film to complete the device. In one possible approach of fabricating this template the single tier low resolution reservoirs and feeder lines shown in pink may be photolithographically patterned which may then be stitched to the multi level high resolution features directly carved out using a focused ion beam FIB .

It may be important to estimate the integration densities that can be achieved using SCALE. The ink reservoirs may have a significant footprint and optimization of the device layouts and reservoirs may be important. A preliminary analysis shows that a complementary inverter in a 800 m 800 m area can be easily produced including all reservoirs and channels. This then translates to 200 inverters cm or 400 TFTs cm . Further optimization of layouts should increase this number toward the goal of 1000 devices cm and it is noteworthy that already this integration density would be a huge advance over previous demonstrations.

In addition to TFTs SCALE template masters can be engineered to build resistors capacitors and diodes and other electronics all of which are integral to integrated circuit manufacturing. For example a resistor can be built by bridging two silver lines with carbon black by delivering their respective inks to different levels in a two tier structure as shown in . Similarly it is possible to fabricate capacitors and diodes inside imprinted cavities by SCALE .

Flexible molds stamps are desirable for the SCALE process and can be fabricated by casting or thermally imprinting a low surface energy polymer onto a patterned template master. However lower viscosity reactive liquids are more suited compared to thermoplastic melts for conformal contact with complex 3 D topographical features on a template master. Potential candidates are PDMS for optical transparency and fluoropolymers e.g. teflon for higher tensile modulus . The mold is preferably inert and preferably does not degrade after prolonged thermal or UV exposures. The flexible stamp may be wrapped and fixed to a high precision imprint roll. The imprint roll can be made of stainless steel or quartz depending on whether the UV light source is positioned outside or inside the roll respectively.

The SCALE imprint material coated onto the web is preferably a low viscosity liquid to achieve rapid conformal contact with both the large and small features during imprinting. It preferably cures rapidly in the presence of oxygen within the short contact time with the imprint roll and exhibit low shrinkage upon curing for high definition patterning. The imprint pre polymer can be rapidly cured either thermally e.g. cross linkable PDMS or photonically e.g. UV curable epoxysilicone or epoxy dimethylsiloxanes . Despite a low surface energy mold adhesion with the imprint material can be enhanced by the high density and high aspect ratio features on the SCALE mold. Therefore the imprinted layer preferably has a low surface energy for easy mold release but preferably has a strong adhesion with the substrate. Functionalized photocurable silsesquioxane SSQ resins and PDMS based copolymers show particular promise as imprint materials. One of the chemical moieties in these material systems shows preferential affinity for the substrate and the overall surface energy of the film is low. Furthermore the surface energy of the imprinted material should be alterable by plasma or corona treatment to enable capillary flow of the inks in the subsequent steps. The cross linked network polymer preferably has the necessary chemical resistance against the solvents of the inks employed during the SCALE process.

To achieve complete circuits it is desirable to have a general strategy for making interconnects between transistors capacitors resistors diodes etc. Some of the interconnects can be fabricated in the same layers as the components but as indicated in a three dimensional interconnect process can be important if not necessary even for simple circuits i.e. lines have to cross over each other without shorting . Interconnects may be fabricated efficiently in a various ways using the SCALE process. In a first approach the web containing discrete components may be coated again with UV crosslinkable liquid followed by aligned imprinting as shown in . Imprinting can be aligned to contact pads on the transistor layer which as these pads are large 100 m the required precision for this process is relaxed. The imprinting process can create vertical vias and horizontal interconnect channels that will be connected to imprinted ink reservoirs. Subsequent filling of the reservoirs with Ag or Cu or other suitable ink followed by capillary flow can lead to completion of the desired interconnects. In a second approach metal filled vias and interconnects may be made on a second web via the SCALE process and then the interconnect web substrate web 2 will be aligned to the original transistor web substrate web 1 in a lamination process. Importantly the alignment requirements here are relaxed because the vias need to be aligned to large contact pads hundreds of m across. A pressure sensitive adhesive or Ag epoxy on the pads can provide the necessary bonding between the two webs.

An embodiment of a custom multifunctional R2R coating and printing line that may be used with SCALE is shown in . The apparatus includes the following additive process functions slot coating aerosol jet printing drop on demand delivery of liquids ink jet printing and gravure printing and a variety of solidification curing and sintering processes enabled by infrared heaters and a photonic sintering unit. For aerosol jet or drop on demand printing the web can be held in place with a heated vacuum plate while the print head translates on a x y stage above the web. Once printing is complete the web can be moved forward for solidification. The equipment may be designed for research or commercial applications with relatively narrow webs 4 of course wider or narrower webs may be employed accessibility for visualization and metrology and a unique forward reverse mode of operation. The forward reverse mode can allow individual coating or printing steps to be carried out on a short span of web followed by translating that coated or printed web to a solidification station. Once that step is complete the web can be reversed and a second coating or printed layer can be applied. This mode will allow devices to be build up without consuming large quantities of web and without large drying and curing units that are necessary for continuous operation. Lastly the depicted design includes a lamination station with state of the art alignment to bring together functional the TFT devices with the upper level interconnects.

Such multifunctional R2R printing and coating lines can enable many additive processes for circuit fabrication but it may not have nanoimprint capability. Thus the proposed R2R nanoimprinting line and the multifunctional R2R line will be complementary and can be employed in tandem to effectively produce self aligned circuits via the SCALE process. First the capillary architectures can be prepared by nanomiprinting using a nanoemboss instrument as described above. Then this structured web may be loaded into the multifunctional R2R coating and printing line and the reservoirs can be filled by the drop on demand print head followed by moving the web to the solidification station. Then the forward reverse mode of operation may be used the web can reverse back to the drop on demand location and then next set of reservoirs can be filled. The process can be repeated until the devices are complete. Likewise the upper level interconnect structures can be constructed by SCALE and the devices can be assembled with the interconnect layer in a final lamination step on the multifunctional line.

It should be noted that the process lines descried herein are preferably for use in an academic research facility and that they are highly flexible and ideal for research studies. It will be understood that process knowledge from research use of such lines should be applicable to larger scale continuous manufacturing.

An example of an electronic device such as a TFT that may be produced using the SCALE process is shown in . As shown in electronic ink such as silver ink may be dispensed into and along a large channel forming the border of the grid. This border can serve as a contact pad. The electronic ink flows into narrow and tall channels via capillarity which in the depicted embodiment are 5 micrometer wide and 5 micrometers high. The sheets preferably have very low resistance and high transmittance. Embedded electronic material lines e.g. silver lines may be used for compatibility with devices. Parallel high throughput additive and roll to toll processes as described herein may be used.

Here we present a robust low temperature and liquid based processing method termed IPP for obtaining high resolution and high aspect ratio metal lines embedded in a plastic substrate by combining three established technologies 1 imprint lithography 1 2 inkjet printing P and 3 electroless plating P . which is similar to shows a series of steps involved in the IPP process. Firstly microchannels connected to reservoirs are molded into a coated thermoset material using imprint lithography. A master template is fabricated by etching reservoirs and channels in a silicon substrate e.g. as described above with regard to . The width of the channels ranged from 1.5 100 m whereas the reservoirs are 400 m in diameter. The master template in turn is used to create a polydimethylsiloxane daughter stamp. The stamp is then pressed into a curable epoxy prepolymer liquid coated on a polyethylene terephthalate PET film pre treated by plasma to enhance the adhesion between the epoxy coating and the substrate. The prepolymer is cured using UV illumination following which the stamp is delaminated to yield imprinted reservoirs and channels on the epoxy coated PET substrate.

Next a reactive silver ink S. B. Walker J. A. Lewis 2012 134 1419 is delivered into the reservoirs using a drop on demand inkjet printer where it is wicked along the channels via capillary forces. Unlike flat substrates spreading of this low viscosity ink is confined only to the width of the channel. Upon drying and annealing of the ink a thin deposit of Ag is left behind in the reservoir and the channel. Subsequently the channel is filled completely by immersing the substrate in a Cu electroless plating bath for a known amount of time where the Ag inside the microchannels serves as a seed layer for selective deposition of Cu. In the final configuration the filled microchannels serve as conductive wires whereas the reservoirs serve as contact pads.

We employ a particle free reactive Ag ink for this work whose rheological properties were tailored to facilitate ink jet printing and capillary flow simultaneously. This ink is devoid of any organic binder. The surface of Ag metal obtained post annealing is therefore free from any residue serving as an excellent seed layer for Cu growth as discussed later. shows a plan view scanning electron micrograph SEM of a 50 m wide channel filled with Ag metal. Note that the Ag ink remains confined within the channel during the wicking process. The two leading edges near the termination of flow are also distinguishable suggesting that for the entire duration of capillary flow the bulk liquid trailed the liquid along the sidewalls. As the Ag ink in the reservoir approached the capillary channel the liquid was first imbibed along the two corners of the channel forming a curved meniscus leading to a pressure gradient between the reservoir and the channel i.e. the capillary pressure AP . Capillary pressure in the direction of flow in an open rectangular channel can be described as D. Juncker H. Schmid U. Drechsler H. Wolf M. Wolf B. Michel N. de Rooij E. Delamarche 2002 74 6139 

where is the surface tension of the liquid is the contact angle of the liquid on the walls of the channel and d and w are depth and width of the channel respectively. This pressure gradient drives ink flow down the channel against the competing flow resistance arising from friction at the channel walls.

To investigate the effect of channel geometry on the travel length the reactive Ag ink with a volume equivalent to reservoir volume was flowed within long 5 cm channels of varying widths and depths . Beginning with the widest channels as shown on the right in travel length initially increased upon decreasing the channel width at a constant channel depth. However for narrow channels 

The travel length of a liquid ink in an open channel can be roughly estimated as the product of the average flow velocity and the time at which solidification sets in at the advancing liquid front. The onset of solidification depends upon the vapor pressure of the ink and height of the liquid inside the channel but not on channel width surface area to volume ratio of liquid in channels with different widths but same depth is constant . The average flow velocity on the other hand has a strong dependence on the width of the channel. Decreasing the channel width while keeping the depth constant enhances capillary pressure from 1 . However flow resistance also increases upon decreasing the width with the effect being especially pronounced in very narrow channels. Resistance to flow in a closed microchannel of width w is inversely proportional to w hence a similar dependence can also be expected for open microchannels. Therefore average flow velocity increases and subsequently decreases upon decreasing the channel width for a fixed depth dictated by the relative dominance of either capillary pressure or flow resistance respectively . Interestingly the travel length increased upon increasing the channel depth for a constant width. Although increasing the channel depth decreases capillary pressure from 1 it also reduces the effect of viscous dissipation from the channel floor besides increasing the time for solidification at the advancing liquid front. Therefore both flow velocity and travel time of the ink increase in deeper channels. It is worthwhile noting that maximum travel length observed for our experiments is close to 6 mm which should be adequate for most printed circuits applications.

Cross sectional SEM provides insight into the dynamics of flow and drying of Ag ink inside a microchannel. reveals that a thin Ag deposit is present on both the sidewalls and bottom of a 5 m wide channel. The presence of Ag on the sidewalls indicates that during the entire capillary flow the liquid filled the channel almost to the top. It is also testimony to the pinning of the contact line to the top of the walls during drying. Similar to the coffee ring effect on flat surfaces the pinned contact line initiates liquid flow from the center towards the wall during drying leading to a region of slightly increased Ag thickness near the walls and a region of uniform thickness away from the walls . This is consistent with results obtained for polymer and latex solutions dried within similar confined geometries.

Capillary filling enables patterning of the reactive Ag ink in high resolution channels. However the channels are only partially filled with metal after drying and annealing of the ink. To obtain high aspect ratio conductors complete filling of the channels with metal is required. We accomplish this through electroless deposition of Cu. Upon immersing the substrate in the plating solution Cu ions from the solution diffuse towards the Ag metal inside the microchannels where they are reduced to Cu metal. displays focused ion beam FIB cross sections illustrating time dependent growth of Cu inside Ag filled micro channels widths 2.5 and 10 m depth 2.5 m . The temperature of the bath is maintained at 55 C. After 3 min immersion time Cu grows exclusively atop Ag present on both the sidewalls and the bottom of the channel . The thickness of Cu increases with plating time with an average growth rate 300 nm min. Interestingly side overgrowth near the top of the channel sidewalls is also seen after a plating time of 6 min indicating isotropic growth of Cu around an individual Ag seed . Eventually after 9 min both the 2.5 and 10 m channels are flush with Cu with an overgrowth of 0.8 and 3 m respectively on either side of the channel . Advancing Cu metal fronts from both the sidewalls and the bottom seamlessly merged to completely fill the channels yielding very high aspect ratios height width of 0.6 and 0.1 for the 2.5 and 10 m channels respectively. It should be noted that the aspect ratios can be further improved by inhibiting the side overgrowth through the addition of special additives to the electroless plating solution. The surface morphology of the plated Cu is characterized using atomic force microscopy which revealed that the root mean square roughness over a 25 marea was 81.8 5.2 nm.

To study the effect of the channel geometry on the electrical properties we used the two point probe method to measure the resistance of the Cu Ag wires in channels with different widths 2.5 to 20 m at a constant depth 4 m . illustrates the resistance of all wires irrespective of the channel width varied linearly with length in accordance with Ohm s law suggesting dimensional invariance of the wires along their length. The contact resistance between the tungsten probes and the wires was nearly independent of the wire width which is also a signature of a true conductor. The calculated resistivity is similar for all wires with an average value of 2.96 0.1 cm which translates to a conductivity of 57 of bulk Cu . This is impressive considering the maximum temperature employed during the entire process was 100 C. during annealing the Ag ink. The resistance per unit length of the wire scales inversely with the channel width. For example linear resistance almost doubles upon decreasing the channel width by a factor of 2. Despite the low line width very low values of linear resistance down to 1 mmfor 10 m wide channels are achieved due to the low resistivity and high aspect ratio of the patterned wires. We also studied the effect of channel shape on resistance of the wires. Interestingly the resistance of wires in non linear channels is slightly higher than those in linear channels of the same length which may result from thinner Ag or Cu deposits around bends in the channel .

To investigate mechanical flexibility and durability of the Cu Ag wires we examined the change in electrical resistance of five wires width 15 m depth 4 m subjected to repeated bending cycles at two different radii of curvature r . As shown in for r of 1.2 cm 0.4 tensile strain electrodes subjected to 1000 repeated bending cycles exhibited only a slight increase in their electrical resistance relative to the initial value. For r of 0.6 cm 0.8 strain the electrical resistance increased gradually with a 1.5 fold increase after 1000 cycles. None of the patterned wires exhibited complete failure. The SEM image reveals formation of micro cracks along the width of the wires parallel to the axis of bending . Although the bending performance is acceptable for most flexible electronics applications it may be further optimized by employing thinner wires or an encapsulating layer to shift the stress neutralization plane during bending into the Cu layer. We also investigated the adhesion of the Cu Ag wires widths 2.5 100 m depth 4 m using the scotch tape and ultrasonication tests. Although wider wires 30 m showed delamination in some locations the narrower wires displayed exceptional adhesion to the molded epoxy substrate and remained anchored to the channels even after 3 consecutive tests.

In summary we have demonstrated a new approach referred to as IPP to patterning highly conductive wires through capillarity induced flow of inkjet printed reactive Ag ink into micro imprinted channels on a plastic substrate followed by a Cu electroless plating step. Specifically high resolution metal wires with minimum line width and spacing down to 2 and 4 m respectively have been achieved using this approach. High aspect ratio features up to 0.6 are obtained after the Cu deposition. The Cu Ag wires display excellent conductivity 50 of bulk metal which is invariant over different channel dimensions making them suitable candidates for flexible electronic devices and circuits. Due to their high aspect ratio and electrical conductivity wires as fine as as 2.5 m exhibit a very low linear resistance 

Silicon wafer 100 was first cleaned by a Piranha solution 5 1 HSOwith HO solution for 20 min at 120 C. and then rinsed with DI water and dried. The wafer was prebaked at 115 C. for 1 min. Photoresist Shipley 1813 was spin coated 3000 rpm on the silicon wafer for 30 s followed by softbake at 110 C. for 1 min to drive off solvents. A pre designed mask was placed above the photoresist coated silicon wafer and exposed to UV light for 5 s in an ultraviolet exposing system Karl Suss MABA6 . The silicon wafer was immersed in the developer solution for 1 min rinsed with DI water and dried. The patterned silicon wafer was then dry etched to a required depth by reactive ion etching SLR 770 Deep Trench Etcher . The etch rate was 0.9 m min. Lastly the patterned silicon wafer with reservoirs and channels was washed in acetone and ethanol to remove the photoresist and rinsed with DI water. The patterned silicon wafer was placed in a hexamethyldisilazane HMDS vapor bath for 2 h.

For preparing the PDMS stamp PDMS monomer and its curing agent Dow Corning Sylgard 184 were thoroughly mixed in a 10 1 weight ratio respectively and vacuum degassed for 30 min. The master template substrate was placed in a plastic petri dish and 30 g of the PDMS pre polymer mixture was poured over the substrate and allowed to level out. The pre polymer mixture was then cured in an atmospheric oven at 60 C. for 12 h. After completely curing the PDMS stamp was delaminated from the silicon master template. The stamp was then placed in an oven at 120 C. for 2 h to enhance its modulus.

A 25 m thick coating of a flexible UV curable polymer NOA 73 Norland Products Inc. was applied to a 75 m thick PET substrate. Prior to the coating the PET substrate was air plasma treated for 3 min to promote the adhesion of the coating. The PDMS stamp was inserted into the liquid coating and pressed using a glass roller to drive out entrapped air bubbles at the coating stamp interface if any. The coating was cured by exposure to UV light for 20 min. Following complete cure the stamp was delaminated leaving behind imprinted features in the NOA PET substrate.

An 80 m diameter drop on demand inkjet nozzle was employed for printing the Ag ink. The optimized waveform consisted of a rise time of 5 s dwell time of 20 s and fall time of 5 s drive voltage of 100 V and jetting frequency of 360 Hz. The diameter of a single ejected droplet was about 65 75 m. The nozzle was aligned to an imprinted reservoir and a fixed number of droplets were delivered to the reservoir. Prior to printing the imprinted substrate was air plasma treated for 3 min for surface energy enhancement to facilitate capillary flow. The printed substrate was annealed on a hot plate at 100 C. for 5 min.

The Cu electroless plating solution contained 2.704 g of CuSO.5HO 8.15 g of ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid disodium salt 3.25 g of NaOH 100 mL of DI water and 25 mL of an aqueous solution of formaldehyde 37 by weight . The temperature of the bath was maintained at 55 C. The printed substrate was kept in the bath for a known amount of time and taken out rinsed with DI water and dried using an air gun.

A number of aspects methods and devices have been described herein. A summary of some selected aspects is provided below.

A first aspect is a method comprising providing a substrate having a microchannel and a reservoir in communication with the microchannel and disposing a first liquid composition comprising a liquid carrier and a first electronic material first optical material or other first material of interest in the reservoir to cause the first liquid composition to move via capillarity through the microchannel.

A second aspect is a method according to the first aspect wherein providing the substrate comprises molding a polymer to have the microchannel and reservoir via imprint lithography

A third aspect is a method according to the second aspect wherein molding the polymer comprises inserting at least a portion of a template in a polymerizable material.

A fourth aspect is a method according to the third aspect wherein the template is disposed on a roller.

A fifth aspect is a method according any one of aspects 1 4 further comprising evaporating at least a portion of the liquid carrier leaving the first electronic material the first optical material or the first material of interest in the microchannel.

A sixth aspect is a method according to the any one of aspects 1 5 further comprising depositing a second liquid composition comprising a liquid carrier and a second electronic material second optical material or other second material of interest in the first reservoir to cause the second liquid composition to move via capillarity through the microchannel over the first electronic material the first optical material or the other first material of interest.

A seventh aspect is a method according to the sixth aspect wherein the first reservoir defines a total reservoir volume and wherein the first reservoir is a nested reservoir defining a first volume in a first nested portion and a second volume in a second nested portion wherein the total reservoir volume is the sum of the first volume and the second volume and wherein disposing the first liquid composition in the reservoir comprises disposing the first liquid composition in the first volume defined by the first nested portion and wherein disposing the second liquid composition in the reservoir comprises disposing the second liquid composition in the second volume defined by the second nested portion.

An eighth aspect is a method according to the sixth or seventh aspect wherein the second liquid composition is an electronic ink an optical ink or an ink containing an other material of interest.

A ninth aspect is a method according to any of aspects 6 8 wherein the microchannel comprises a major portion having a first width and a recessed portion having a second width wherein the first width is greater than the second width and wherein the first electronic material is disposed in the recessed portion and disposing the second liquid compositing in the reservoir causes the second liquid composition to move through the major portion.

A tenth aspect is a method according to any of aspects 6 9 further comprising evaporating at least a portion of the liquid carrier of the second composition leaving the second electronic material the second optical material or the second material of interest layered on the first electronic material in the first channel.

An eleventh aspect is a method according to any one or aspects 6 9 wherein the first material is an electronic material that is electrically conductive and wherein the second material is electronic material that is electrically nonconductive.

A twelfth aspect is a method according to any of the preceding aspects wherein the first material is an electronic material that is a conductive material

A thirteenth aspect is a method according to the twelfth aspect further comprising plating a metal on the first electronic material within the microchannel.

A fourteenth aspect is a method according to any of the preceding aspects wherein the first liquid composition is an electronic ink an optical ink or an ink containing another material of interest.

A fifteenth aspect is a method according to any of the preceding aspects wherein the entire method is carried out on a roll to roll apparatus

A sixteenth aspect is a method for forming an electronic device optical device or other device comprising a providing a substrate having a microchannel and first and second reservoirs in communication with the microchannel b disposing a first fluid composition comprising a liquid carrier and a first electronic material first optical material or other first material of interest in the first reservoir to cause the first fluid composition to move via capillarity through the microchannel c evaporating at least a portion of the liquid carrier of the first liquid composition leaving the first electronic material first optical material or first other material of interest in the channel and d disposing a second liquid composition comprising a liquid carrier and a second electronic material a second optical material or other second material of interest in the second reservoir to cause the second liquid composition to move via capillarity through the microchannel over the first electronic material.

A seventeenth aspect is a method according to the sixteenth aspect further comprising evaporating at least a portion of the liquid carrier of the second liquid composition leaving the second electronic material the second optical material or second other material of interest layered on the first electronic material first optical material or other first material of interest in the first channel.

An eighteenth aspect is a method according to the sixteenth or seventeenth aspect wherein the microchannel comprises a major portion having a first width and a recessed portion having a second width wherein the first width is greater than the second width and wherein the first material is disposed in the recessed portion and wherein disposing the second liquid compositing in the second reservoir causes the second liquid composition to move through the major portion.

A nineteenth aspect is a method according to any of aspects 16 18 wherein the entire method is carried out on a roll to roll apparatus.

A twentieth aspect is a method comprising a providing a flexible substrate for an electronic device the substrate having a plurality of channels and a plurality of reservoirs defined therein wherein a first of the plurality of channels is in fluid communication with a first of the plurality of reservoirs wherein a second of the plurality of channels is in communication with a second of the plurality of reservoirs and wherein the first and second channels are both in communication with a third of the plurality of reservoirs b disposing a first fluid composition comprising a liquid carrier and first material e.g. electronic optical or other material of interest in the first reservoir to cause the first fluid composition to move via capillarity through the first channel c disposing a second fluid composition comprising a liquid carrier and a second material e.g. electronic optical or other material of interest in the second reservoir to cause the second liquid composition to move via capillarity through the second channel and d disposing a third fluid composition comprising a liquid carrier and a third material e.g. electronic optical or other material of interest in the third reservoir to cause the ink to move via capillarity through the first channel and second channels.

A twenty first aspect is a method according to the twentieth aspect further comprising a evaporating at least a portion of the liquid carrier of the first liquid composition in the first channel leaving the first material in the first channel and b evaporating at least a portion of the liquid carrier of the second liquid composition in the second channel leaving the second material in the second channel wherein the third liquid composition is disposed in the third reservoir after the liquid carrier has been removed from the first fluid composition and after the liquid carrier has been removed from the second fluid composition.

A twenty second aspect is a method according to the twentieth or twenty first aspect wherein the entire method is carried out on a roll to roll apparatus.

A twenty third aspect is a device comprising a a substrate b a patterned polymer disposed on the substrate wherein the patterned polymer defines a first microchannel in communication with a first reservoir and c a first material e.g. electronic optical or other material of interest disposed in the first microchannel.

A twenty fourth aspect is a device according to the twenty third aspect wherein the patterned polymer further defines a second microchannel in communication with the first reservoir and wherein the first material is disposed in the second microchannel.

A twenty fifth aspect is a device according to the 23or 24aspect further comprising a second material e.g. electronic optical or other material of interest wherein the patterned polymer further defines a third microchannel in communication the first reservoir wherein the first microchannel comprises a first recess defined in the third microchannel and wherein the second microchannel comprises a second recess defined in the third microchannel and wherein the second electronic material is disposed in the third microchannel wherein at least a portion of the second material is disposed on the first material in the first microchannel and is disposed on the first material in the second microchannel.

A 26aspect is a device according to the 24or 25aspect further comprising a second material e.g. electronic optical or other material of interest wherein the patterned polymer further defines a third microchannel in communication a second reservoir the first microchannel comprises a first recess defined in the third microchannel and wherein the second microchannel comprises a second recess defined in the third microchannel wherein the second material is disposed in the third microchannel wherein at least a portion of the second material is disposed on the first material in the first microchannel and is disposed on the first material in the second microchannel

Thus embodiments of SELF ALIGNED CAPILLARITY ASSISTED LITHPGRAPHY are disclosed. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the articles devices and methods described herein can be practiced with embodiments other than those disclosed. The disclosed embodiments are presented for purposes of illustration and not limitation. One will also understand that components of the articles devices and methods depicted and described with regard the figures and embodiments herein may be interchangeable.

All scientific and technical terms used herein have meanings commonly used in the art unless otherwise specified. The definitions provided herein are to facilitate understanding of certain terms used frequently herein and are not meant to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

As used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the encompass embodiments having plural referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise.

As used in this specification and the appended claims the term or is generally employed in its sense including and or unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. The term and or means one or all of the listed elements or a combination of any two or more of the listed elements.

As used herein have having include including comprise comprising or the like are used in their open ended sense and generally mean including but not limited to . It will be understood that consisting essentially of consisting of and the like are subsumed in comprising and the like. As used herein consisting essentially of as it relates to a composition apparatus system method or the like means that the components of the composition apparatus system method or the like are limited to the enumerated components and any other components that do not materially affect the basic and novel characteristic s of the composition apparatus system method or the like.

The words preferred and preferably refer to embodiments of the invention that may afford certain benefits under certain circumstances. However other embodiments may also be preferred under the same or other circumstances. Furthermore the recitation of one or more preferred embodiments does not imply that other embodiments are not useful and is not intended to exclude other embodiments from the scope of the disclosure including the claims.

Also herein the recitations of numerical ranges by endpoints include all numbers subsumed within that range e.g. 1 to 5 includes 1 1.5 2 2.75 3 3.80 4 5 etc. or 10 or less includes 10 9.4 7.6 5 4.3 2.9 1.62 0.3 etc. . Where a range of values is up to a particular value that value is included within the range.

As used herein providing with regard to a substrate means manufacturing purchasing or otherwise obtaining the substrate.

Use of first second etc. in the description above and the claims that follow is not intended to necessarily indicate that the enumerated number of objects are present. For example a second channel is merely intended to differentiate from another channel such as a first infusion . Use of first second etc. in the description above and the claims that follow is also not necessarily intended to indicate that one comes earlier in time than the other.

