---

title: Communication of orders and payments in a drive through using wireless beacons
abstract: There are provided systems and methods for communication of orders and payments in a drive through using wireless beacons. A merchant location may include a drive through with a wireless beacon established in the drive through. The beacon may provide communication services with a device for the user. The merchant may detect that the user is in a vehicle in the drive through using either the connection between the device of the user and the beacon or a camera, sensor, or other detector located near the beacon in the drive through. Based on check-in information generated on the connection, an order for the user may be accessed. The user may pay for the order using the device and through the connection to the beacon. Further, if other devices for additional users in the vehicle connect to the beacon, the additional users may split the payment for the order.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09639907&OS=09639907&RS=09639907
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09639907
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140627
---
The present application generally relates to communication of orders and payments in a drive through using wireless beacons and more specifically to establishing a wireless beacon in a merchant s drive through that may connect to a user s device to facilitate ordering and paying at the drive through.

Some merchants may offer a drive through at their merchant location where a user may complete sales transaction for items or services without ever having to leave their vehicle. The users may pull up to an ordering window and interface with a merchant representative who may take an order for the user. The user may then traverse through the drive through to a payment window where the user may provide payment for the items the user requested. However since the merchant representative taking the user s order is unlikely to remember the user past orders of the user from previous visits are not recalled for easy and expedient ordering. Even if one merchant representative does recall the user the user may travel to another location for the same merchant e.g. a fast food chain where the user may not have familiarity with the menu layout items etc. Thus the user may spend added time browsing the menu or be required to again interface with a new merchant representative. Furthermore once the user has completed ordering and is ready to pay the user is required to present cash or a payment card which may not be the preferred payment instrument for the user.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

Provided are methods that provide communication of orders and payments in a drive through using wireless beacons. Systems suitable for practicing methods of the present disclosure are also provided.

Various merchant locations may provide short range wireless communications with a device such as through beacons using Bluetooth Low Energy BLE LTE Direct or other communication protocol. These beacons may be set up at a merchant location such as a merchant s drive through and communicate with devices to alert users of check in services through their device. The beacons may provide additional functionality such as establishing a connection with a device or server entity to complete transactions including ordering and payment services. The beacons may provide communications to the users devices directly including information stored in the beacons. The beacons may also provide communication with a device attached to or in communication with the beacon such as a device of a merchant.

A merchant may offer a drive through at the merchant s location where a user may place and or pick up an order while the user is in their vehicle. Additionally the merchant may offer check in services through one or more short range wireless beacons established in the drive through for the merchant. For example merchants may correspond to fast food restaurants banks pharmacies etc. These beacons at the merchant may utilize a short range wireless communications to communicate with a device of the user. For example the beacons may be established at an entry to the drive through in individual lanes of a multiple lane the drive through next to a menu of available items from the merchant and or near an ordering intercom for the drive through. The beacons may employ Bluetooth Low Energy BLE LTE Direct or another communication protocol to emit a communication signal receivable by the user s device. The communication may include an identifier for the beacon the user the merchant and or a payment provider.

The user s device may be set up to passively monitor for BLE communications. When the device detects the signal and verifies the one or more identifiers both the device and the beacon may ramp up in power and establish a connection where the connection may further enable the device to communicate with the merchant and or the payment provider. The beacon may be connected to a networked device at the merchant location or the beacon may include network functionality to communicate with other devices and or servers. Thus the beacon enables the user s device to establish a connection communicate check in information e.g. an identifier for the user and or complete a check in with the merchant. The check in may be completed automatically when the user s device is in range of the beacon or may be completed after prompting the user to check in when the user s device is in range of the beacon.

Once the merchant has established at least one wireless beacon at the drive through the wireless beacon s may connect to the user s device when the device is in proximity to the wireless beacon s . For example a wireless beacon may broadcast the identifier that initiates a check in within an area around the wireless beacon. Thus as the user s device enters that area the device may connect to the wireless beacon and or initiate a check in process. The wireless beacons may be range limited to correspond to a specific area of the merchant s drive through such as an ordering intercom menu and or a specific lane of a multilane drive through. This may be done by adjusting the power of the signal emitted by the beacon so that devices outside of a radius surrounding the beacon will not pick up the identifier check in request and connect to the beacon. Thus only devices in a certain range e.g. a size of coverage for a vehicle detected by the merchant may connect to the beacon. Moreover the merchant may implement measures to limit the range of the wireless beacon including placement of the wireless beacon and construction of the drive through. The beacon may further include directionality such that the beacon may connect to vehicle entering the drive through or section of the drive through and disconnect as vehicles exit the drive through.

Once the user s device connects to the beacon various transactions may be initiated accessed and or completed using the device. For example if the beacon is near a menu of available items for the merchant the user may utilize the device to enter and submit an order. The wireless beacon may provide an interface for searching selecting and or viewing the menu of available items and or services. The device may display the order to the user and may update the order as the user adds removes and or changes items services in the order. Moreover if the menu displayed in the drive through includes a nearby ordering intercom the user may submit items services for the order using the intercom which may be reflected on the device. Furthermore an ordering display device may be established in the drive through to display the order to the user and reflect changes made to the order by the user through the device. The display device may assist the merchant in accurately taking the order from the user. Thus the order as seen to the merchant and displayed on the ordering display device may be matched with the order displayed to the user on the user s device. This allows the user or other users in the vehicle to submit orders using both the intercom and the user s device.

The wireless beacon may also connect with a plurality of users devices. For example a vehicle may include more than one user each having their device e.g. mobile phone . The vehicle may also have a main device such as a heads up display or console computing system mounted inside the vehicle. The wireless beacon may display the order on each device and allow each device to edit the order. Thus each user in the car may submit their own order and customize their items services to their preferences. Additionally changes to the orders may be reflected on each user s device as well as the ordering display device to insure accuracy of the order. To prevent devices in other vehicles or surrounding the vehicle from connecting to the wireless beacon the merchant may detect a size and or shape of the vehicle using sensors weight sensors cameras or other devices. The size of the vehicle may affect a range that the wireless beacon may connect to devices e.g. a range to transmit identifiers or other check in requests .

Once an order is submitted to the merchant the user or users may complete payment for the order using the device s . Payment may be provided using a payment account with a payment provider or other payment instrument e.g. cash payment card etc. . The wireless beacon may display a total to the user s through the device where the user may select the payment instrument. If more than one user is submitting payment for the total e.g. a split payment each device for the user may be utilized to submit part of the payment. Moreover each user may utilize their device to view their respective share of the total such as by selecting items the user wishes to pay for or receiving their respective share from the merchant through the wireless beacon. Payment may be issued to the merchant through the wireless beacon or may be issued to the merchant over a network connection.

In certain embodiments the order may be submitted by the user prior to arriving at the drive through. Thus when the user s device connects to the wireless beacon the order may be populated on the device and or ordering display device in the drive through for editing and submission for preparation. In other embodiments the common and or past orders of the user may be presented to the user when the user arrives at the drive through so that the user may select to submit their regular order. The common and past order may be determined using an identifier of the user used in the past transactions or through transaction histories in a user payment account of the user.

System includes a user a merchant a device a merchant drive through structure having an ordering display and a wireless beacon a merchant device and payment provider server in communication over a network . User such as a consumer or other potential purchaser may arrive at a merchant location for merchant that has a drive through. Device may establish a connection with wireless beacon at the drive through. User may then submit an order for fulfillment to merchant using device over the connection between device and wireless beacon . Additionally payment provider server may provide payment services between device and merchant device .

Device ordering display wireless beacon merchant device and payment provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with wireless beacon merchant device and or payment provider server . For example in one embodiment device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS or other wearable computing device a computing device mounted within a vehicle e.g. a console or heads up display computing device in a vehicle and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Although a user device is shown the user device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device. Although only one user device is shown a plurality of user devices may function similarly.

Device of contains a check in application an ordering application a payment application other applications a database and a communication module . Check in application ordering application payment application and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program. In other embodiments device may include additional or different software as required.

Check in application may be used by user of device to establish a connection with wireless beacon including a check in with merchant . Check in application may correspond to a specific application utilized by device with wireless beacon and or merchant device to complete a check in for a location corresponding to merchant . The check in with merchant device may correspond to a process to log in to a user account of user with merchant device or payment provider server if payment provider server provides cheek in services for merchant . In other embodiments the check in may provide and or verify the identity of user including transmission of an identifier for user and or device . The check in may be completed over network with merchant device . In such embodiments check in application may correspond more generally to a browser application configured to communicate with merchant device over a network connection e.g. over a connection with network .

In various embodiments check in application may also receive short range wireless communications from wireless beacon at a location and transmit information to wireless beacon including check in information for a check in process with merchant device or payment provider server if payment provider server provides check in services for merchant that associates user with wireless beacon . For example wireless beacon may be located in a drive through for merchant e.g. at an entrance to a drive through lane merchant menu display ordering display ordering window intercom etc. where wireless beacon is set up to communicate with device when device is in proximity to wireless beacon . Thus wireless beacon may be range limited to connect only with devices e.g. device within a specified area such as a radius around wireless beacon a distance away from wireless beacon and or a signal direction for wireless beacon . In various embodiments wireless beacon may connect to device when device is located in a vehicle that is currently located at a place for ordering from merchant e.g. a menu display ordering display and or ordering window intercom . Wireless beacon may be set to be range limited using the construction of the drive through and or wireless beacon . Wireless beacon may also be range limited using the signal strength of wireless beacon which may be adjusted as merchant detects a size of the vehicle that device is located in. Based on the proximity for connection to wireless beacon check in application may transmit information to wireless beacon when user is nearby wireless beacon enabling merchant device to determine that user is located in proximity to wireless beacon and thus may complete an order and payment to merchant .

Check in application may execute in the background of an operating system of device and be configured to establish connections using communication module of device with wireless beacon . The connection may be established with or without user input from user . For example wireless beacon may broadcast a token such as a universally unique identifier UUID for reception by check in application as will be explained in more detail herein. Check in application may utilize communication module of device to receive the token from wireless beacon . If check in application acknowledges the UUID as identifying wireless beacon merchant device and or payment provider server e.g. if check in application determines the UUID corresponds to a request to establish a communication channel and or process and complete a check in check in application may transmit an identifier corresponding to user and or device back to wireless beacon . Check in application may utilize communication module of device to communicate with wireless beacon e.g. over near field communication Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy radio infrared LTE Direct or other communication protocol . The identifier from device may include be transmitted with concatenated with or otherwise bundled with the identifier received from wireless beacon . In other embodiments different information may be transmitted to wireless beacon such as an identifier for user a name or other personal information for user an identifier used to recall or determine a previously submitted order by user and or information used to determine previous or common orders for user . Thus the information transmitted to wireless beacon does not need to be utilized to process and or complete a check in with merchant device in all embodiments.

Once a connection is established with wireless beacon device may be checked in with merchant device if user has not previously been checked in. The check in process may then associate user with wireless beacon used to connect to device . For example merchant may previously have registered wireless beacon as located in the drive through and at a location used to submit orders for fulfillment by merchant . Thus merchant is informed that user is in the drive through and ready to order from merchant . Merchant may further determine that a vehicle for user is in the drive through and detect a size for the vehicle as will be explained in more detail herein. Thus any other device in proximity to wireless beacon e.g. capable of connecting to wireless beacon may be determined to be located in the vehicle for user and associated with user . Thus those devices may be further associated with the order submitted to merchant . As previously discussed in other embodiments a check in need not be processed and or completed to associate user with the drive through. Thus other connections and data transfers to wireless beacon may be sufficient to associate user with the drive through.

Ordering application may correspond to in various embodiments an application that allows user to view menu items services available from merchant and submit an order for selected items service to merchant for fulfillment. Thus ordering application may receive information from merchant device e.g. from wireless beacon connected to with merchant device and or over network from merchant device . Information received from merchant device may include menu information for items and or services available from merchant . For example where merchant is a fast food merchant with a drive through having wireless beacon menu information may display a list of food and drink items available from merchant as well as price information ingredients nutritional information options customizations for the food drink items etc. Once device is connected to wireless beacon the menu item may be populated to ordering application so that user may select food and drink items for purchase and submit an order for selected items. In other embodiments the menu may be accessible from merchant device over network . The menu may be displayed as an interactive menu allowing user to browse navigate and search for items services available from merchant while generating editing and submitting an order. In various embodiments menu information may correspond to more general information of items and or services available from merchant such as prescription medication submissions pick up times refills etc. banking information balances etc. and or available services e.g. oil change car wash etc. .

If other users are associated with user and ordering at the same time e.g. friends coworkers and or family members in the same vehicle as user while creating and submitting an order for fulfillment by user the other users may also possess devices that include a check in application an ordering application and or a payment application. Thus the other users may utilize their respective devices to select edit and submit items services for purchase in the same order with user . User may therefore view selected items services by the other users in the order using ordering application as well as a total including cost tax tip and or service charge for those items. In various embodiments user may add remove and or customize the items services submitted by the other users. For example user and the other users may all be given access rights to the order to generate and edit the order as user and the other users see fit. In certain embodiments user or another user may be given priority access rights to have a final determination of the order such as a parent in a car full of children. However in other embodiments user may be given no rights to access edit and submit items services selected by another user in an order e.g. in a car full of coworkers where each coworker has final say in their order . Such access rights may be determined at the time of connection of device and the other user s device to wireless beacon or may be set by user account credentials based on past transactions for each user or based on user device relationships e.g. if two devices are associated on a similar plan and one is noted as a device of a child for the parent s device on the plan if two devices co located or perform transactions together frequently etc. .

Ordering application may also display common regular and or past orders for user and or other users associated with user e.g. users in a vehicle with user while ordering from merchant children of user friends family of user or other associated users . These regular and or past orders may be determined using user information for user and or the other users such as a user identifier name payment card account information etc. as will be explained in more detail herein. The regular past orders may also be set by the user such as by user selecting a favorite option or feature when using ordering application . User may utilize ordering application to select view edit e.g. add remove and or customize the items services in the order and or submit one or more of the regular past orders. Additionally the other users may similarly select edit and submit the regular past orders as their order using their respective user devices which may appear to user on a user interface of ordering application as previously discussed. The regular past orders of the other users may similarly be populated to ordering application and or the devices of the other users.

In various embodiments user may receive rewards discounts and or loyalty benefits for use with merchant . For example user may have discounts such as 20 off offers that user may apply to an order. Such discounts may be entered and or accessible by user using ordering application . Ordering application may transmit the coupons to merchant device for application to an order. In other embodiments user may also physically present the discount to merchant and or merchant device to receive the discount. In additional embodiments user may receive rewards from previous purchases from merchant . In such embodiments user may receive a discount based on a previous purchase such as a discount incentive to receive further business from user . Thus such a reward may correspond to a free soda at a next visit. These rewards may be stored to a loyalty account for user and may further be stored and or accessible by ordering application . Similarly ordering application and or user may present the rewards to merchant when submitting an order for purchase.

In various embodiments user may utilize ordering application to determine an order for pick up from merchant s drive through prior to user arriving at the drive through. For example user may select an order for pick up prior to leaving an office for user and then drive to the merchant location for merchant . Thus menu information for merchant may be received over network prior to arrival at the drive through. User may utilize this menu information to create and submit an order to merchant as previously discussed. When user connects to wireless beacon the previously submitted order may be recalled and displayed to user on a display interface of ordering application . In various embodiments user may review edit and approve the order for fulfillment by merchant . Additionally user may provide payment for the order prior to arrival at the merchant location for merchant e.g. prior to connecting to wireless beacon in the drive through or when approving the order while connected to wireless beacon .

In various embodiments orders may be submitted to merchant and order details may also be displayed to user using ordering display of merchant drive through structure as will be explained in more detail herein. Once an order is submitted to merchant payment may be required for the order. Thus ordering application may also display a total including tax tip and or service charge for processing and payment. Additionally ordering application may display an amount for each item service including the item s pro rata portion of the tax tip and or service charge. If other users have submitted items services in an order using their user device the items service submitted by each user may be sectionalized to determine those items services portion of the payment total including the pro rata portion of the tax tip and or service charge owed by each user s order. Payment may be provided to merchant using cash a payment card or a payment account with a payment provider. Thus in various embodiments payment application may be utilized to process and provide payment to merchant .

Payment application may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to select payment options and provide payment for items and or services. For example payment application may be implemented as an application having a user interface enabling the user to enter payment options for storage by device provide payment to merchant and complete a transaction for the items and or services using payment provider server . Payment application may be configured to provide payment to merchant . In this regard payment application may correspond to an application that may provide an interface where user may view an order for items services submitted by user . Additionally user may generate a payment request for the order to merchant . The payment request may instruct payment provider server to provide payment for the order to merchant . Additionally the payment request may include identification of a payment instrument that payment provider server may utilize to provide the payment to merchant . Payment application may correspond to a dedicated application for payment provider server e.g. a specific device application or may correspond to a browser application configured to view information available over the Internet or access a website corresponding to a payment provider.

The payment request may correspond to a token generated by payment application including a payment amount and a selected payment instrument for user . As previously discussed the payment amount may correspond to a complete amount for the total for the order or a partial amount of the total for the order. For example if user is the only party ordering in one instance from merchant or user is providing payment for all parties ordering from merchant during the instance the payment amount may include the total due to merchant . However in other embodiments one or more other users may split the total due for the order with user . Thus the payment amount may correspond to the amount user has agreed to pay for the total for the order e.g. a selected amount or an amount due for the items services requested by the user .

The payment instrument may correspond to an account identifier payment card bank account etc. Once the payment request is generated user may authorize the payment request for transmission to payment provider server in order to effectuate a payment to merchant . User device may transmit the payment request to payment provider server with an identifier for merchant in order to complete the payment to merchant . In other embodiments payment application may transmit the payment request as a token with a payment instrument and identifier for user to merchant device for completion by merchant . If the payment amount is a partial amount due for the total e.g. a split of the total with other users in the vehicle with user the token may be transmitted to merchant device or payment provider server separately from the payment tokens due by the other users or bundled with the payment tokens of the other users.

Payment application may provide payment for items using a user account with the payment provider such as payment provider server . Payment application may include cross linking allowing user to identify a user account through an identifier for a separate user account e.g. identifying a user account through a debit card account number and vice versa . Payment application may further include options to store transaction histories for purchased items such as receipts for later use. Thus payment application provides an interface enabling user to provide proof of purchase to merchant .

In various embodiments one or more features of check in application ordering application and or payment application may be incorporated in the same application so as to provide their respective features in one application.

Device includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow a user to send and receive emails calls texts and other notifications through network . In various embodiments other applications may include financial applications such as banking online payments money transfer or other applications associated with payment provider server . Other applications may include browser social networking and or mapping applications which may also be used in conjunction with check in application ordering application and or payment application . Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to the user.

Device may further include database which may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with check in application ordering application payment application and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for payment user device authentication or identification. Identifiers in database may be used by a payment credit provider such as payment provider server to associate device with a particular account maintained by the payment credit provider. Database may include user device tokens and or encryption keys including an encryption key of wireless beacon merchant device and or payment provider server . Database may include identifying information for tokens enabling check in application to identify wireless beacon merchant device and or payment provider server when receiving a corresponding check in token. Additionally database may include data received by ordering application and or payment application including menu information merchant information and or payment and transaction history information.

Device includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with wireless beacon merchant device and or payment provider server . In various embodiments communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. Communication module may communicate directly with wireless beacon using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct WiFi radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Merchant drive through structure may be implemented as a physical structure at a merchant location for merchant such as located in near or corresponding to a drive through for the merchant location. In this regard merchant drive through structure may include physical displays having information of items and or services available from merchant . Merchant drive through structure may include a physical display having the menu information for the items service prices for the items service components of the items services e.g. ingredients contents etc. and or customization options for the items services. The information displayed by merchant drive through structure may be utilized by user to generate select and submit an order having items services for fulfillment by merchant . Although only one structure is shown the merchant location may utilize a plurality of similar structures for example in separate lanes of a multilane drive through or in separate locations of the drive through.

Merchant drive through structure of further includes an ordering display and a wireless beacon . Ordering display and wireless beacon may include hardware and software necessary to execute the processes and functions as described below. In other embodiments merchant drive through structure may include displays hardware and or software as required.

Ordering display may in various embodiments correspond to a visual display device such as a CRT LED LCD plasma or other display device configured to display order details to user . Thus ordering display may further include necessary hardware and or software to receive order details from device and or merchant device and display the order details to user on a display screen. As previously discussed order details may include items services requested by user modifications to the items services e.g. customizations including adding and removing ingredients prices for individual items services an overall total for the items services in the order and or other costs e.g. tax tip and or service charges . Thus ordering display may display the aforementioned information included in the order to user . As the aforementioned information may also be displayed to user in ordering application ordering display may be synchronized with the order in ordering application to reflect additions changes and deletions from the order.

In various embodiments ordering display may include an intercom microphone or other input output device or system including a staff member of merchant receiving voice requests by user and utilizing an input output device to enter the voice requests as requested items services input for an order where user may submit requested items services. For example user may make voice requests at ordering display that may add update change and or remove items services from an order. Such voice requests may be reflected in the order and order details displayed to user in an application interface of ordering application . Additionally the voice requests may update the order and order details displayed on ordering display . Thus ordering display may be utilized to provide orders to merchant for example where user is driving an older or classic car. In such embodiments ordering application may not be utilized to provide the order to merchant and instead user may submit the order using the intercom. User device may also provide payment for the order such as by receiving a payment request token from merchant device through wireless beacon completing a payment for the payment request in the received token using payment provider server and providing proof of payment to merchant at a check out and pick up window. Proof of payment may be provided in various embodiments through a transaction history identification number or other receipt or payment documentation.

Wireless beacon may be maintained for example by merchant and or payment provider server . Wireless beacon may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wireless communication with device . For example in one embodiment wireless beacon may be implemented as a dongle device including a hardware processor and a communication module for example connected to device at the location of merchant . Wireless beacon may also be implemented as devices incorporated within a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Wireless beacon may also act as a stand alone device including a processor communication module and or network interface component configured to communicate with device and or payment provider server . Although wireless beacon is described singly a plurality of wireless beacons may be set up at a drive through of merchant such as in various lanes of a multilane drive through or at various locations in the drive through.

Wireless beacon may be located at a physical location corresponding to merchant . A physical location corresponding to merchant may constitute a drive through and more specifically to merchant drive through structure . For example wireless beacon may be established at merchant drive through structure including nearby ordering display . Wireless beacon may be limited either by signal range or physical boundaries to merchant drive through structure and or an area corresponding to merchant drive through structure .

Wireless beacon of contains processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program configured to interact with device merchant device and or payment provider server . Thus regardless of the implementation of wireless beacon as discussed above wireless beacon may utilize a connection check in process and include or be connected to a communication module. In other embodiments wireless beacon may include additional or different hardware and software as required.

Wireless beacon may include an application for transmitting requests to establish a connection between a device e.g. device and wireless beacon . The requests may be unique to wireless beacon thereby identifying wireless beacon . Wireless beacon may utilize short range wireless communications of wireless beacon to transmit the requests to establish a connection including an identifier such as a Universally Unique Identifier UUID . If device receives a request to establish the connection with wireless beacon and responds with an identifier for user device potentially including the UUID and other information necessary to effectuate a check in for user wireless beacon to ramp up in power and create a connection between device and wireless beacon .

Wireless beacon may transmit the request to establish the connection with wireless beacon as a short range wireless communication e.g. a BLE protocol communication including a wake up process for check in application of device and or a token for wireless beacon transmitting the request. In other embodiments the request and or connection may utilize near field communication radio communication infrared communication or Bluetooth communication. Additionally although wireless beacon may utilize BLE protocol communications to effectuate an always on type service where the UUID and wake up process are transmitted continuously other communication protocols used to provide an always on service may include QUALCOMM LTE Direct or similar device to device communication technology. BLE and LTE Direct may both be utilized to provide discovery of nearby devices to wireless beacon e.g. device and or merchant device and establishment of a connection for data transfers. In other embodiments wireless beacon may correspond to other devices such as WiFi capable devices near field communication devices etc.

The request may be specific to device by including information that is specific to user such as a name identifier or user device identifier. The information specific to user may be determined from a user account of user or other information previously provided to merchant device and or payment provider server e.g. an identifier for user provided to merchant device and or payment provider server . Thus in certain embodiments only device will pick up and authenticate the request for example if user has previously submitted an order and merchant is expecting user to arrive. In other embodiments only device and devices in the same vehicle as device may pick up the request if wireless beacon is ranged limited to only transmit the request to devices within an area for a vehicle in proximity to wireless beacon . The range limitation of wireless beacon may be fixed or may be determined based on an approximate vehicle size detected by merchant e.g. using merchant device and or scales cameras sensor devices etc. . For example one of wireless beacon established at merchant drive through structure may be limited in range only to connect to device if device is located in proximity merchant drive through structure .

After wireless beacon receives an identifier from device wireless beacon may determine user is in proximity to wireless beacon . If identifiers are received from other users devices while wireless beacon is range limited to an area or vehicle size corresponding to user wireless beacon may further determine those devices are in the same vehicle or area as user and correspondingly connect to those devices. Wireless beacon may pass the identifier and any other device s identifiers where applicable to merchant device and or payment provider server to associate user and the other users where applicable with the wireless beacon . By associating user with wireless beacon merchant device and or payment provider server may determine user and the other users where applicable is located at merchant drive through structure and is ready to generate and submit an order to merchant .

Wireless beacon may utilize a communication module to pass the identifier to merchant device which may then pass the identifier to payment provider server . However in other embodiments wireless beacon may utilize a network connection of wireless beacon to pass the identifier to payment provider server directly. Thus wireless beacon includes a communication module adapted to communicate with device merchant device and or payment provider server . The communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. The communication module of wireless beacon may also communicate with device and or merchant device using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct WiFi radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Merchant device may correspond to a device used by merchant to view process and complete financial transactions for orders submitted by user . Thus merchant device may be located locally to a merchant location for merchant such as at a drive through window or station of a drive through at the merchant location. However merchant device may also function remotely to the merchant location and interact with merchant and or merchant representatives for merchant at the merchant location. Merchant device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication with device wireless beacon and or payment provider server . For example merchant device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone laptop computer wristwatch with appropriate computer hardware resources eyeglasses with appropriate computer hardware e.g. GOOGLE GLASS other type of wearable computing device and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an IPAD from APPLE . Although a merchant device is shown the merchant device may be managed or controlled by any suitable processing device. Although only one merchant device is shown a plurality of merchant devices may function similarly. Moreover in various embodiments one or more of the applications processes and or features discussed below in reference to merchant device may be included in payment provider server e.g. check in application where check in services are offered to merchant through payment provider server and vice versa.

Merchant device of contains a check in application a merchant sales application other applications a database and a communication module . Check in application merchant sales application and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program. In other embodiments merchant device may include additional or different software as required.

Check in application may correspond to processes to complete check in with device for a location corresponding to merchant e.g. with one or more of wireless beacon established in a merchant location for merchant . Thus check in application may correspond to the merchant device side application configured to receive check in information from device and complete the check in. The check in request may include log in information for a user account with merchant and or payment provider server and thus complete the check in with user by verifying the account information. For example the check in information may include an identifier or other account information for a user payment account of user . However in embodiments where a user account has not been previously established by user check in application may receive other information identifying user including a user name identifier user device identifier an identifier for an account with another server or other information. Such information may also be used to identify past transactions of user with merchant . The check in information may also be utilized to pull up a previous order submitted by user and complete a transaction for the order. For example the check in information may include an identifier for user that enables merchant device to identify a food order prescription or other requested order submitted by user prior to device connecting to wireless beacon a submitted. The identifier received by check in application from device may also be associated with an order submitted by user while connected to wireless beacon allowing payment and recall of the order when necessary.

Once a connection is established and or a check in is completed between device and wireless beacon merchant sales application may be utilized to transmit and receive information between device and merchant device . Merchant sales application may provide information for available items and or services to device and receive an order submitted by user as previously discussed. Merchant sales application may also be configured to answer queries for information in some cases using input by merchant provide order limitations and or update the information for the available items services e.g. menu updates including available menu items services . Thus merchant sales application may be configured to provide menu options to user based on information available for merchant .

Merchant sales application may also be utilized to for example provide a convenient interface to permit merchant to view a submitted order approve the submitted order and complete a transaction for the submitted order e.g. receive payment for the order . In this regard merchant sales application may display the order to merchant so that merchant may confirm the order. If items and or services cannot be fulfilled in the order merchant sales application may also be utilized to notify user and or edit the order. Once the order is approved by merchant merchant sales application may be utilized to request payment for the order. Payment for the order may include a request to pay a total for the order including tax tip and or service charges. As previously discussed multiple users e.g. user and other users may submit different items services in an order using their respective devices. Thus using the identifiers for each device connected to wireless beacon and the items services selected by each device merchant sales application may keep each user s requested items services separate and determine their totals for display to each individual user.

Merchant sales application may present the total for the order and any requested split totals for the amounts due by each person. The split amounts due by each person may be displayed to all users on all the devices or each specific user on their device using the identifier for the device that is associated with their split total. Moreover merchant sales application may also receive different split totals from user and the other users for example by each user selecting either a partial amount of the total to pay or selecting specific items services in the order to pay. Merchant sales application may calculate each user s pro rata portion of tax tip and or service charge or may accept each user s selection of a partial amount of the tax tip and or service charge to pay.

Merchant sales application may receive payment for the total from device the other users devices and or payment provider server . In various embodiments merchant may also receive physical payment instruments such as cash and or payment cards from user and or the other users in order to pay for partial amounts of the total. Thus merchant sales application may also be utilized to run payment cards complete cash transactions and or otherwise complete payment for the order. Once payment for the order is complete merchant sales application may be configured to generate a transaction history for the order including an overall receipt receipt for partial amounts and or confirmation of payment s . The transaction history and or receipts may be provided electronically to user and or the other users through wireless beacon and or network or a physical copy of the transaction history and or receipts may be provided.

Merchant device includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to merchant device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. In various embodiments other applications may include financial applications such as banking online payments money transfer or other applications associated with payment provider server . Other applications may contain other software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to the user.

Merchant device may further include database which may include for example identifiers such as operating system registry entries cookies associated with check in application merchant sales application and or other applications identifiers associated with hardware of merchant device or other appropriate identifiers such as identifiers used for payment user device authentication or identification. In one embodiment identifiers in database may be used by payment provider server to associate merchant device with a particular account maintained by payment provider server . Database may also store user s information including check in information an identifier etc. for user and any other users associated with user while ordering with user . Database may include orders by user and transaction histories for purchased items by user to present proof of purchase. Merchant information such as menu information of available items services may also be stored to database .

Merchant device includes at least one communication module adapted to communicate with device wireless beacon and or payment provider server . In various embodiments communication module may include a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communication devices. Communication module may communicate directly with wireless beacon using short range communications such as Bluetooth Low Energy LTE Direct radio frequency infrared Bluetooth and near field communications.

Payment provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment services and or processing for financial transactions on behalf of a user. In this regard payment provider server includes one or more processing applications which may be configured to interact with device wireless beacon and or merchant device to facilitate payment for a transaction. In one example payment provider server may be provided by PAYPAL Inc. of San Jose Calif. USA. However in other embodiments payment provider server may be maintained by or include a credit provider financial services provider financial data provider and or other service provider which may provide payment services to user and or merchant . Moreover in various embodiments one or more of the applications processes and or features discussed below in reference to payment provider server may be included in merchant device and vice versa.

Payment provider server of includes a transaction processing application other applications a database and a network interface component . Transaction processing application and other applications may correspond to processes procedures and or applications executable by a hardware processor for example a software program. In other embodiments payment provider server may include additional or different software as required such as a check in application as discussed in reference to merchant device where such check in processes and features are instead provided by payment provider server .

Transaction processing application may be configured to receive information from and or transmit information to device and or merchant device for processing and completion of financial transactions. Transaction processing application may include one or more applications to process financial transaction information from user and merchant by receiving a request to complete transaction for items and or services offered by merchant . The request may correspond to a payment from user to merchant . The payment may include a user account identifier or other payment information e.g. a credit debit card or checking account for user and a receiving account for merchant . Additionally the payment may include a payment amount and terms of payment. The payment amount may constitute the entire total for an order submitted by user or a partial amount of the total during a split payment transaction as previously discussed. Transaction processing application may complete the transaction by providing payment to merchant through merchant s account payment information. Additionally transaction processing application may provide transaction histories including receipts to device and or merchant device for completion and documentation of the financial transaction. For example a transaction history may be provided to device and or merchant device to allow for merchant to view the transaction and provide the items and or services to user .

In various embodiments payment provider server includes other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide features to payment provider server . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing server side security features programmatic server applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Other applications may contain software programs executable by a processor including a graphical user interface GUI configured to provide an interface to a user.

Additionally payment provider server includes database . As previously discussed user and or merchant may establish one or more payment accounts with payment provider server . User accounts in database may include merchant user information such as name address birthdate payment funding information additional user financial information and or other desired user data. User and or merchant may link to their respective payment accounts through a user merchant and or device identifier. Thus when an identifier is transmitted to payment provider server e.g. from device and or merchant device a payment account belonging to user and or merchant may be found. In other embodiments user and or merchant may not have previously established a payment account and may provide other financial information to payment provider server to complete financial transactions as previously discussed. Database may further include additional information received from device and or merchant device such as check in information and identifiers merchant s information including menu information and transaction information for user and merchant .

In various embodiments payment provider server includes at least one network interface component adapted to communicate device wireless beacon and or merchant device over network . In various embodiments network interface component may comprise a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device a broadband device a satellite device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices including microwave radio frequency RF and infrared IR communication devices.

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks. Thus network may correspond to small scale communication networks such as a private or local area network or a larger scale network such as a wide area network or the Internet accessible by the various components of system .

As shown in environment user arrives at a drive through for a merchant e.g. merchant not shown in a vehicle . User further has device inside vehicle . Device may correspond to a user device such as a mobile phone wearable computing device tablet computer etc. Additionally device may correspond to a computing device attached or connected to vehicle such as a heads up display computing device console computing device etc. Thus when user arrives at the drive through and device is within range of wireless beacon device and wireless beacon may establish a connection for purposes of completing an order and payment to the merchant. As previously discussed when device connects to wireless beacon the merchant may detect a size shape or other approximate area coverage of vehicle and adjust the connectivity range of wireless beacon e.g. the range of signals emitted by wireless beacon . Therefore any other devices in vehicle that also connects to wireless beacon may be determined to be within vehicle and may be associated with user vehicle and device as well as the order submitted while device is within range of wireless beacon .

While located at merchant drive through structure user may view items and or services offered for sale from the merchant. Thus merchant drive through structure includes a menu listing available food items from the merchant for . Items and or services available under menu may also populate on device through communications received over a network connection or over a connection with wireless beacon . When viewing the items available from the merchant under menu user may form an order and submit the order to the merchant using device . However user may also order cancel change or modify an order e.g. items and or services request in an order though an intercom . Intercom may be connected to a merchant audio or audiovisual device that enables the merchant to receive voice instructions from user for an order and enter the instructions into the order. Once items and or services are ordered by user they may appear under ordering display for example as order . Thus as shown in environment user has ordered a hamburger and a soda and has a total of 5.48. In various embodiments order may also appear on device to user so that user may view order and make additions deletions and changes.

User device displays an ordering application interface corresponding generally to the processes and features described in reference to ordering application of . Ordering application interface includes past orders saved orders a current order and a submit order option. Ordering application interface may correspond to an interactive graphical user interface whereby a user not shown of user device may make selections of items and or services available from a merchant not shown . Thus ordering application interface may display a menu of items services available from the merchant and or enable selection browsing and or searching for items services available from the merchant. Information displayed in ordering application interface may be received from wireless beacon or in various embodiments over a network connection of device e.g. from a source over the Internet .

The user may view past orders which may include orders previously submitted and or fulfilled by the merchant. Past orders may be determined using a user account for the user of device . Additionally the merchant and or merchant device may determine past orders after an identifier is transmitted to wireless beacon . Once orders previously submitted to the merchant are determined for the user of device they may be transmitted to and or stored by device for display to the user in ordering application interface . Similarly saved order may be determined for the user from a user account and or identifier for the user or device . Saved orders may correspond to orders that the user has elected to store for later recall. For example one or more of past orders and saved orders may correspond to a favorite or regular order that the user may later purchase again. This enables easy recall and selection of an order to merchant device .

Current order may include a present order for the user of device that the user currently wishes to submit to the merchant of merchant device and purchase. Current order may be determined by selecting items services available from the merchant while searching browsing a menu of available items services. For example the menu of available items service may appear under a tab or as an interactive display screen in ordering application interface . Additionally a search box or other browsing tools may also be displayed to the user to allow the user to find items services. Thus the user may make selections of desired items services which may then appear under current order allowing the user to create and view an order. In other embodiments the user may make a selection of one or more orders viewable in past orders and or current orders .

As shown in environment current order includes a hamburger a soda as well as an add item option and menu information. Thus the user of device has placed hamburger and soda in an order that the user may submit to the merchant of merchant device . Additionally the user may edit add and or remove items from current order . For example selection of hamburger and or soda may allow the user to edit their ingredients make special requests delete the items from the order or otherwise modify current order . If the user wishes to add items to current order the user may select the option to add item which populates information under menu . Add item and menu may correspond to lists search boxes interactive menus or other interfaces enabling the user to add view and select items for current order . As previously discussed if other users are in a vehicle with the user of device items selected to add to current order on their respective devices may also appear to the user under current order . In other embodiments current order may apply only to the items selected by the user of device for purchase and not include items selected by other users in the vehicle. Once the user is satisfied with current order the user may select a submit order process to transmit the order to merchant device e.g. using wireless beacon or over a network connection of device for fulfillment by the merchant.

While the user of device is generating current order additions deletions and modifications to the order may appear on ordering display for viewing by the user and other users in the same vehicle as the user. Ordering display displays an order and messages . Information displayed on ordering display may be received from device through wireless beacon or from merchant device as the order is entered by a merchant for merchant device . Thus as the user enter information in current order or submits the information to the merchant e.g. through an intercom order displays information for the order including hamburger soda and a total . Total may include a cost for order and may further include tax tip and or service charges in various embodiments. The merchant may also utilize ordering display to transmit messages to the user including queries as to whether the user would like to modify order if the user is ready to submit order and or instructions for payment and navigation of a drive through.

User device further includes a payment application interface corresponding generally to the processes and features described in reference to payment application of . Payment application interface includes total payment instruments and a submit for payment process. Total may be imported to the application displaying payment application interface from the application supporting ordering application interface . Thus total may correspond to a total cost for current order and order as previously discussed. In various embodiments total may also correspond to a split amount due for a total cost of current order order . The user may initiate submit for processing and or complete a payment for total by selecting a payment instrument under payment instruments such as payment account . Payment instruments may include payment cards payment accounts banking accounts gift cards and or other payment and financial related information that may be utilized to provide payment to the merchant. Once payment account is selected the user may select the submit for payment process thereby submitting total and payment account to the merchant and or payment provider for processing.

The merchant may utilize merchant device to view order and payment details. Once an order is submitted to merchant device the order may be displayed under order . Thus the merchant may view hamburger and soda required to be prepared by the merchant. The merchant may view a status of the items services in order such as a ready and a ready status. Status may inform the merchant whether the items services are ready for the user if the items services can be fulfilled by the merchant and other relevant information for completing order for the user. Order may also be given an order number that may assist the merchant in tracking order . Additionally the merchant may view a payment status for order under payment status . In environment the user has completed a payment for order therefore the merchant may view payment received status under payment status .

At step it is determined that a user is in a vehicle in a drive through of a merchant based on a first connection between a device for the user and a wireless beacon wherein the merchant further detects the vehicle in the drive through. For example the merchant may detect a vehicle in a drive through using video cameras imaging equipment image recognition sensors and or scales. Thus the merchant may also detect a size of the vehicle. If a device connects to a wireless beacon in proximity to the vehicle it may be determined that a user with the device is in the vehicle. A range for the wireless beacon may be adjusted based on the size of the vehicle. The connection may use one of near field communication radio communication infrared communication Bluetooth communication Bluetooth Low Energy BLE communication and LTE Direct communication. Additionally the device may comprise a mobile phone device a tablet computing device and or a console computing device mounted in the vehicle.

Check in information for the user is accessed at step wherein the check in information is generated from the connection between the device and the wireless beacon. The check in information may comprise user account information for the user and or an identifier for the user. Thus at step an order submitted by the user is accessed using the check in information. The order may be generated by the user when the user is connected to the wireless beacon or may comprise a pre existing order generated by the user prior to arriving at the drive through in the vehicle. The order may be displayed to the user on the device of the user and or on a merchant display device in the drive through. The user may also update the order by adding and or removing items services in the order or modifying items services in the order. The order may also comprise a past order based on a previous visit by the user to the merchant a transaction history for the user and or a user account for the user e.g. favorites and or past transactions in a user account . The user may modify the order using the device or may give voice input to an intercom that is entered by the merchant to modify the order. Additionally if other users are in the vehicle the other users may utilize their devices to add and or remove items in the order and or modify the order as appropriate. For example it may be determine a second user is in the vehicle based on a second connection between a second device and the wireless beacon. Thus check in information for the second user may be accessed and the order may be communicated to the second device. The second device may be configured to accept changes to the order by the second user.

At step a payment for the order is processed using the check in information and the order. The payment may further be processed using a payment account or a payment instrument provided by the user. An identifier or other information in the check in information may be utilized to identify the payment account or the payment instrument and may be provided as identification of the user. Additionally if other users in the vehicle wish to split payment for the order the first payment request may comprise a first partial payment for the order and a second payment request may be processed for a second partial payment of the order.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input output I O component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons image or links and or moving one or more images etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . I O component may also include an output component such as a display and a cursor control such as a keyboard keypad mouse etc. . An optional audio input output component may also be included to allow a user to use voice for inputting information by converting audio signals. Audio I O component may allow the user to hear audio. A transceiver or network interface transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as another user device service device or a service provider server via network . In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. One or more processors which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link . Processor s may also control transmission of information such as cookies or IP addresses to other devices.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM and or a disk drive . Computer system performs specific operations by processor s and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor s for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various embodiments non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one embodiment the logic is encoded in non transitory computer readable medium. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave optical and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EEPROM FLASH EEPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into subcomponents comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

