---

title: Added features of HEM/HEG using GPS technology
abstract: A GPS-based energy management system for a home network is provided that includes a plurality of enemy consuming devices. The system comprises a central controller operatively connected to each energy consuming device, and one or more GPS-enabled devices configured to communicate with the central controller. The central controller is programmed to modify the behavior of the energy consuming devices based on the location of at least one member of a home network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09207658&OS=09207658&RS=09207658
owner: General Electric Company
number: 09207658
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140620
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 985 387 filed Jan. 6 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The following disclosure relates to energy management and more particularly to energy management of household consumer appliances as well as other energy consuming devices and or home energy systems found in the home. The present disclosure finds particular application to coupling a home energy management system HEM home energy gateway HEG with coordinate based location devices that will allow the HEM HEG to track the home member s location based on time and control home devices and or appliances accordingly.

Many utilities are currently experiencing a shortage of electric generating capacity due to increasing consumer demand for electricity. Currently utilities charge a flat rate but with increasing cost of fuel prices and high energy usage at certain parts of the day utilities have to buy more energy to supply customers during peak demand which causes prices to rise during these times. If peak demand can be lowered then a potential huge cost savings can be achieved and the peak load that the utility has to accommodate is lessened. In order to reduce high peak power demand many utilities have instituted time of use TOU metering and rates which include higher rates for energy usage during on peak times and lower rates for energy usage during off peak times. As a result consumers are provided with an incentive to use electricity at off peak times rather than on peak times and to reduce overall energy consumption of devices at all times.

Home Energy Management HEM systems such as for example the HEM system described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 892 130 filed Sep. 28 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety are able to automatically operate and disable power consuming devices in a designated home network. The energy management systems include a central controller that is in communication with each of the power consuming devices and provide a homeowner the means to monitor and manage their energy consumption through a combination of behavior modification and programmed control logic. Active and real time communication of energy costs of power consuming devices to the consumer enables informed choices of operating the power consuming functions of the appliance. One type of HEM is in the form of a special custom configured computer with an integrated display which communicates to devices in the home and stores data and also has simple algorithms to enable energy reduction. This type of device may include a keypad for data entry or the display may be touch screen. This device is either integrated in a unitary housing or if the display is not in the same housing the display and computer are otherwise connected associated to work as a single unit. A second HEM is in the form of a low cost router gateway device in a home that collects information from devices within the home and sends it to a remote server and in return receives control commands from the remote server and transmits the commands to energy consuming devices in the home. As with the first this HEM may be custom configured including a computer and integrated or otherwise connected associated display and keypad if used designated as a simile unit.

Additionally a Home Energy Gateway BEG system has been developed as a premise data management system that is significantly smaller cheaper and consumes less power said HEG system being described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 983 425 filed Jan. 3 2011 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 621 097 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. The BEG has the capability of operating over multiple communication networks which each use different formats protocols and bandwidths. This allows the BEG to acquire and manipulate e.g. reformat data of one communication network e.g. that which monitors controls the home appliances and to supply that manipulated data to another communication network e.g. to the consumer electronics network such as to a home computer smart phone web enabled TV etc. even though these networks are not generally compatible.

To take advantage of the lower cost of electricity during off peak times the HEM HEG systems are designed automatically operate power consuming devices during offs peak hours in order to reduce consumer s electric bills and also to reduce the load on generating plants during on peak hours. Active and real time communication of energy costs of devices to the consumer enables informed choices of operating the power consuming functions of the devices. Although these systems are capable of being run automatically according to demand period a user may choose to override the system and run a device normally or delay the operation of the system for a particular period of time.

The HEM HEG is designed to operate home network power consuming devices and provide homeowners with power and cost saving information. It would be advantageous however to enable operation of the home network in view of the locations of home network members such as when such members are at home or away from the home.

Navigation systems such as global positioning systems UPS vehicle compass distance sensors and other navigation systems are being included in devices such as vehicles cellular telephones and other portable devices to provide navigation and location information based information to users. Global Positioning Systems UPS are widely used as space based global navigation systems that provide reliable location and time information in all weather and at all times anywhere on earth.

Accordingly it would be beneficial to utilize the positioning capability of UPS and other navigation devices to provide an HEM HEG with the positional information of home network members to allow an HEM HEG to control the home network devices based on the member s location.

According to one aspect of the present disclosure a GPS based energy management system for a home network is provided that includes a plurality of energy consuming devices. The system comprises a central controller operatively connected to each energy consuming device and one or more GPS enabled devices configured to communicate with the central controller. The central controller is programmed to modify the behavior of the energy consuming devices based on the location of at least one member of a home network.

According to yet another aspect of the present disclosure an energy management system configured to operate a home network based on the location of one or more members of the home network is provided. The system comprises one or more energy consuming devices a central controller operationally coupled to a home network of power consuming devices and programmed to modify the behavior of the energy consuming devices and at least one navigation device corresponding to at least one member of the home network. The navigation device is configured to communicate with the controller.

According to yet another aspect of the present disclosure a method of managing a home energy management system based on the location of one or more members of a home network is provided. The energy management system includes a network of energy consuming devices and a central controller operatively connected to the energy consuming devices. The method comprises communicatively coupling a GPS enabled device to the central controller determining the location of one or more members using the GPS enabled device communicating the location of one or more members to the central controller and operating one or more energy consuming devices according to a pre programmed schedule when designated location criteria is met.

As briefly described above the home enemy management system comprises an electronic system having a home energy manager HEM home energy gateway HEG acting as a central controller operationally coupled to a home network of power consuming devices that provides a homeowner the means to monitor and manage their energy consumption through a combination of behavior modification and programmed control logic. The central controller provides real time feedback on electricity water and or natural gas consumption as well as providing data on renewable energy generation occurring at the home such as solar photovoltaic generation wind generation or any other type of renewable energy generation.

The central controller also stores consumption data and provides data to a user via an associated user interface display. According to a first configuration the central controller operates as a data server for providing data through an application programming interface API in a client application which can then be used to present this data to the homeowner on a client device. Once data is received by the API the client device program uses this information to generate graphs of energy usage generation and or storage on the client device. In another configuration data pertaining to the consumer s energy consumption generated energy and or storage is displayed on a display such as an LCD touch screen display integral with the central controller. Additionally through a web server integrated in the controller the display on other devices in communication with the central controller such as a homeowner s networked PC mobile phone or other device may further be used to display energy data to a user.

A communication device such as a ZigBee radio may be implemented to facilitate communication signals between the central controller and devices within the home while a second radio operates similarly between the central controller and the utility such as for demand response event signals price signals. Any communication protocol can be implemented and the present disclosure is not limited to ZigBee as one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate. The central controller may operate as a gateway device by caching or storing information from devices within a home such as historical power consumption data or demand response event information from the utility. The central controller therefore provides the necessary information from the utility to the devices in home network for them to operate in accord with the utility signals and or user preferences.

The controller includes a user interface having a display and control buttons for making various operational selections. The display may include an LCD touch screen for enabling use interaction and input regarding what information is displayed or the user interface can include separate control buttons for making various operational selections. The user interface and display may comprise a cellular phone PDA personal computer tablet computer smart phone pager television and the like. The controller is configured to gather information and data related to current usage patterns and as well as current power costs and generate historical usage charts therefrom. This information can be used to determine current energy usage and cost associated with using each device appliance in at least one of the energy savings mode and normal mode. This real time information i.e. current usage patterns current power cost and current energy usage cost can be presented to the user via the display.

A communication device such as a ZigBee radio 802.15.4 WiFi 802.11 and an FM receiver may be implemented to facilitate communication signals between the central controller and devices within the home while a second radio operates similarly between the central controller and the utility such as for demand response event signals price signals. The device controller can also include USB ports for adding additional functionality. Any communication protocol can be implemented and the present disclosure is not limited to ZigBee as one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate. The central controller therefore operates as a gateway device by caching or storing information from devices within a home such as information pertaining to whether smart appliances are on or off or demand response information from the utility. The central controller therefore provides the necessary information from the utility to the appliances appliance microcontrollers for them to operate in accord with the utility signals and or user preferences.

Additionally the controller is capable of connecting via either Ethernet or WiFi to the homeowner s router and to a client application in a personal computer and or a mobile device to access the Internet of . This allows for remote service and monitoring capability. A server can keep records of all homes therein that may be accessed remotely via the internet.

In accordance with the present disclosure the home energy management systems described above are configured to communicate with one or more navigational devices such as a GAS device. . As illustrated in the navigation or GAS device is configured to transmit location information in real time via cellular satellite internet broadband wireless or other network connection to the central controller . The GPS may be a standalone designated navigational device as shown in or it may be built into a user s mobile device laptop computer vehicle not shown . The GPS device comprises a transceiver that is configured to calculate its position based on messages received horn GPS satellites that include precise time and location information.

Each home network member in a home network may have one or more separate GPS enabled devices. For example a homeowner may have one GAS device built into their mobile phone and another in their vehicle. According to the present disclosure each GPS device associated with one or more members of a home area network may be programmed to communicate with the home energy management system of the home network. This GPS HEM HEG relationship allows an HEM HEG to be programmed to operate home network devices according to various behaviors based on the location of one or more home members. For example it a home has four members a mother father and two children each member s GPS device if applicable may be programmed to communicate individually with the HEM HEG system s central controller. The controller in turn may additionally communicate with the GPS enabled devices to provide each home member with information regarding the status of the home network devices and or the utility state and or operational inquiries to allow for precise and tailored control of each device in a home network. The central controller may transmit signals to a member device which may be the GPS enabled device or a separate device that are relayed to the member via text messages emails and or voice alerts depending on the set preferences and type of device enabled.

By monitoring the location of each home network member through the use of the GPS enabled device the central controller can take the member s location into consideration when determining which devices if any should shed load or be turned off when entering an energy savings mode. A home network member may program the central controller to dictate parameters for entering an energy savings mode based on the member s locations. For example the central controller may be programmed such that particular devices do not enter energy savings mode while one or more members are at home. The programming specifics may change depending on which member is home such that the devices certain members typically use will remain in normal mode while those associated members are at the home. Therefore the central controller may automatically operate the home network devices according to the specified parameters without the home network members noticing any disruption in service. Alternatively the central controller may be programmed to send an alert to the members that are present in a home when an energy savings mode is about to commence and require the members to accept this change prior to entering energy savings mode.

Home network members may additionally program a home s HEM HEG system to include behavior modification schedules that adjust the operation of specific devices based solely on a designated member s location. The central controller it a communication link to each member s GPS enabled device s such that the controller knows the exact location and traveling direction of each home member at any time. For example a home network member may program a behavior modification schedule that shifts the temperature setpoint on a home network s HVAC device when all the members are away from the home beyond some specified distance or time for return. When the central controller receives information that all members are particular distance away from the house and or traveling in directions away from the house the central controller may either send each member or certain designated members an inquiry as to whether the HVAC setpoint should be adjusted or automatically adjust the HVAC setpoint to the temperature pre programmed as part of the behavior modification schedule. The schedule remains in place until one or more member s return to the home enter a certain distance from the home or other pie programmed location requirement. The behavior modification schedules may be manually cancelled at any time in the event is home network member desires the operation of any or all home network devices to vary from a pre programmed schedule.

One example of a pre programmed behavior modification schedule includes a vacation mode . A home network member may set location criteria such as when some or all of the home network members are a particular distance from home and or traveling in directions away from the home. Vacation mode may include the modification of various energy saving device settings such as shutting off or lowering water supply turning off or lowering water heater setpoint temperature turning off a home s natural gas supply line dimming or extinguishing some or all the lights in a home turning on some or all the lights in a home closing a garage lowering as household thermostat setting shutting off appliances such as a dishwasher range dryers washers or other devices that may have inadvertently been left on for example making certain that an iron or coffee maker is disabled by connecting such devices to a load switch that responds to inputs from the controller and any other pre programmed behavior desired by a home network member.

One example of a pre programmed behavior includes setting operation parameters for a vacation mode. The HEM HEG may be programmed to enter vacation mode when each home member is at least a certain minimum distance such as 100 miles away from the home. Once the controller determines via the GPS enabled device that each member either together at the same location or separate are a minimum of 100 miles from the home the controller either sends one or more an inquiry to one or more home network members enabled devices requesting confirmation to enter vacation mode or the controller automatically enters vacation mode without requesting confirmation depending on the pre programmed specification. The vacation mode may further include requirement for returning to normal operational settings such as when at least one member comes within a certain minimum distance from the home to ensure that the home is back to full operation when the members return.

Additionally the system can incorporate a local travel mode that may take effect when the GPS enabled devices of each home network member indicate that one or more of the members are away from the home but remain local such as within Z miles from the home and therefore do not invoke vacation mode. The behavior modification schedule associated with a local travel mode may include less pronounced adjustments than seen with the vacation mode. For example the thermostat temperature and water heater set points may each be lowered but perhaps to a lesser degree than seen with vacation mode. Therefore when the GPS enabled device of at least one of the home network member indicates a member is traveling back to the home the home can return to the normal settings in time for the member s arrival.

Behavior modification schedules may further be programmed that correspond to a variety of different scenarios based on the location of each home member. For instance one schedule may correspond to the household s work schedule work mode . The schedule includes location criteria in view of one or more home network member s work schedules. For example the criteria may include the location of a member s workplace along with a window of time in which the member generally travels to the workplace. When the member s GPS enabled device indicates to the central controller that the member is traveling in the direction of work within the proper time window the controller knows to initiate work mode . Similarly the controller would execute the home mode when travel was sensed as traveling in the direction of home.

If a household includes more than one member each member s routine criteria can be included in a single work mode schedule. For example if a household includes two members one that travels to work Monday Friday around 8 am and leaves work at about 5 pm and the other member travels to school on Monday Wednesday and Fridays at about 10 am and leaves school at around 8 pm the location criteria. For each member is required to be met prior to the initiation of work mode. To exit work mode however only one member has to meet the exit mode requirements to ensure that home devices are functioning properly when each member is home. Accordingly in the above scenario on a typical day work mode would initiate around 10 am and would be cancelled around 5 pm. Since each member s GPS enabled device can detect precise locations and travel patterns if one or more members do not travel according to the typical path the controller may send an inquiry to the member s requesting confirmation that a particular behavior modification schedule should nonetheless be initiated or if alternative action should be taken.

The GPS HEM HEG system may further provide a monitoring feature such as a tracking mode that enables the controller to monitor the movements and real time location of all participants that are associated with the system and display their whereabouts on a user interface of the energy management system. For example if a home network member is at home and discovers an urgent or recent need for supplies such as cooking ingredients toiletries tools etc. the member could initiate the tracking mode and if any mobile users are nearby a retail outlet where such items can be purchased. The home member can then send the mobile user an alert requesting that the mobile user pick up the needed items. Additionally the monitoring feature allows parents or guardians to monitor the locations of teenagers new drivers young children etc. for safety purposes. The system may include parental controls wherein the mobile devices of children may be programmed such that the children cannot disable the monitoring feature.

The GPS enabled devices are additionally configured to provide the central controller with an estimated arrival time for each home network member. The GPS enabled device detects a member s location travel direction traffic and speed and determines an estimated arrival time based on one or more of these variables. A home network member may therefore create various behavior modification schedules that are programmed to initiate when the member is estimated to arrive at home within a certain time frame. For example a home network member creates a schedule for coming home from work on weekdays. This schedule may include turning the outdoor indoor lights on and increasing the temperature on the thermostat and is programmed to initiate when the member is estimated at 20 minutes from home. Based on the information provided by the GPS the controller will know when the member is scheduled to arrive home and initiate this schedule accordingly. The member additionally may enter any planned stops into their personal device associated with the HEM HEG or directly onto their GPS enabled device such as a grocery store or gasoline stop and the GPS can consider this when providing the central controller with an arrival estimation.

Further based on a home network member s location the central controller may present pre programmed inquiries to a member based on the member s location. For example if the GPS indicates that a member is traveling towards home at any time the central controller may send an inquiry as to whether any action should be taken such as turning up the thermometer turning on lights dishwasher and the like. In another example the OPS indicates that each member or at least each adult member has left the house. A message may then be sent to the designated homeowner inquiring if the burglar alarm should be set if it was not. The central controller may also alert the user that one or more device has been left active after all the members left the house such as lights oven space heater hair styling products irons coffeemakers pool pumps and the like and the homeowner can choose to leave the device active or have the device turned off.

The HEM HEG system may further include an application for storing and managing the shopping list for one or more home network member. and illustrates an exemplary portable device with a display . shows an exemplary shopping ht presented to the home network member on the display and the design of the list may be personalized according to a home network member s needs. The shopping list may include a list of items to be purchased along with the local stores these items may be found price comparisons for the items found at different stores and the like. The application enables members to prioritize the items designating items that are urgent needed within one week needed within a month needed within any designated certain date items that are important but not necessary items that are only desired etc. If multiple stores are identified the member can select a store on the list and the application may then provide directions to the store from the person s GPS identified location. The shopping ht may be personalized by specifying the home network member s preferred stores and the preferred locations of the stores depending on where the member is located. For example if the GPS device determines that the member is at work the shopping list may adjust the stores included in the list to the member s preferred stores within a designated radius of the member s workplace. When the member is within a particular proximity of one of the store locations the central controller may send the homeowner an alert such as a text message If the member decides to stop and purchase the item the member can respond such as by email or text.

Each home network member may enter upload and or manage separate shopping lists such that a homeowner may hake a separate list than the homeowner s spouse and or children. Each member enters and prioritizes items on their designated list and the central controller sends alerts only to the corresponding member unless otherwise programmed. For example if a home network includes three members a father mother and school age child and each member has a separately authored and managed list only the mother will receive alerts regarding the items on the mother s list and so on. However the central controller may be programmed such that multiple members have access to manage and receive updates regarding the items on another member s list. Accordingly if the child is in school and is informed that he or she needs a particular type of school supply the child can enter the required item into their associated portable device associated with the HEM HEG such as a cellular phone and the child s parents will receive an alert indicating that the child s list was updated and they would be able to view the location and price of the item. Alternatively the lists can be made private such that only the designated member may update and manage the list and alerts are only sent to the member corresponding to the particular shopping list. If the home network member s associated mobile device includes the member s calendar the controller may be programmed to update a member s shopping list to include a reminder to buy a gift for an upcoming special occasion included in the calendar such as an anniversary birthday etc. This could be helpful for forgetful spouses friends family members who may need reminders with gifts for special occasions.

As referred to above a home network member can communicate back to the central controller in response to an alert. The member can provide a variety of responses via text email or verbal cues to provide various feedbacks such as confirming purchase of the item that prompted the alert selecting to postpone the purchase of the item to a later date deleting the item from the list etc. If the purchase of an item is postponed the member can designate how long to postpone the shopping reminder such as for one day week month and so on. The alerts can additionally be tailored to provide a reminder alert to ensure that the member does not get distracted and forget to buy the intended item. Upon receiving the initial alert that a store location is within range the member can provide a response indicating the intention to purchase the item. The reminder alert may then be activated to provide a reminder a particular amount of time after responding to an initial alert.

Additionally the central controller may include a household monitoring application configured to store a number of cooking recipes and monitor grocery items in the home to assist in meal preparation and menu management. A home network member can load recipes into the central controller such that each recipe can be categorized and stored. As the groceries are stocked in the refrigerator and cupboards the member can enter the items into the controller such as by scanning the item s barcode or manually entering the item description and amount. Household staples such as spices oils vinegars condiments etc. are also entered such that the application has a complete view of the items available for cooking. The application is configured to track each item in the refrigerator and cupboards and can be updated at any time from either the central controller or remotely from a member s personal device such as a computer or cellular phone. Preferably whenever a grocery item is consumed or the amount of the item is reduced the application may be updated to ensure that the item list is accurate. A home network member may select a recipe and the application then searches the database to determine whether the required items are in the home. If not the application may create a shopping list for the household member or add to any existing shopping list and may further list stores that carry the items within a radius of the member s GPS determined location price comparisons of the items available at more than one store traffic around the store location etc. Once the homeowner has completed a recipe the application can automatically update the list of available items in the home.

The household monitoring application is applicable to uses other than cooking such as cleaning laundry and maintenance of home network devices. For example a home network member can enter items into the central controller such as dishwasher detergent and laundry detergent and the amount that the item includes such as weight estimated loads etc. Since the central controller can monitor the operation of home network devices the application will be aware of each cycle and can track the usage of items such as detergent based on the recommended or typical detergent use per load. Accordingly when the detergent is nearing empty the central controller sends an alert to the home network member indicating the upcoming need to purchase detergent or other item and this item is included in the home network member s shopping list along with the information of nearby stores price comparisons at different store traffic information around the stores etc. The member can choose to postpone buying the item for a particular number of hours days months etc. or can cancel the alert all together.

Device parts with a use driven lifespan such as filters can also be monitored by the central controller to notify home network members when the items need to be replaced. For example when a new water filter is purchased the item description brand product number etc. are entered into the controller either manually or by scanning the item barcode and the application tracks the usage of the filter and alerts the homeowner when there is a need to replace the filter. This item can be placed on the home network member s shopping list or on a separate list if so preferred. For example the central controller may keep track of HVAC run times and alert the homeowner of the impending need to purchase a new filter. Once the homeowner accepts the recommendation the central controller adds the filter to the shopping list and alerts the home network member when they are in proximity to a store that may stock the filter. Using the internet the controller can search for available filters that meet the filter requirements in the vicinity of the home network member and provide alerts regarding the available filters without any input from the member. The central controller may also provide price comparisons to the home network member when the required filter is available at more than one location.

The above descriptions of various shopping lists created and managed by applications of the HEM HEG systems are preferably monitored concurrently such that if the GPS enable device recognizes that a home network member is at a particular store and sends this information to the central controller the controller will review each list corresponding to the member if fists are created separately and indicate if there are other items on a list that are available at the particular store. If the member has designated specific priorities to the items the member s device will indicate the priority of the items so that the member can determine whether or not to purchase the item.

The central controller may further monitor the weather conditions associated with each home network member s GPS determined location. By monitoring the real time weather conditions and potential weather alerts such as tornados flooding high wind etc. the central controller can alert each home network member of a weather event and proximity to the zone or location in jeopardy. For example if one home member is driving toward a location that is subject to a tornado warning the central controller may send the member an alert on the member s portable device indicating the tornado warning and the distance the member is from the location. The central controller may also offer alternative routes to avoid the affected weather area. In the event the member is in the affected location the central controller can send an alert indicating at least one route to take to exit the affected location.

The invention has been described with reference to the preferred embodiments. Obviously modifications and alterations will occur to others upon reading and understanding the preceding detailed description. It is intended that the invention be construed as including all such modifications and alterations.

