---

title: Charging device and operating method thereof
abstract: An electronic device having a charging function is provided. The electronic device includes a conversion unit for converting an Alternating Current (AC) voltage to a Direct Current (DC), a first charging unit for generating a first charging voltage or current using the DC voltage, and an output unit for providing the DC voltage and the first charging voltage or current to an external device. Various other implementations are possible.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09484765&OS=09484765&RS=09484765
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09484765
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140619
---
The present application is related to and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Jun. 19 2013 and assigned Serial No. 10 2013 0070381 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

With the development of electronics communication industries in recent years an electronic device such as a cellular phone an electronics organizer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA etc. has become necessities of modern life as an important means for delivering information which changes rapidly.

There is a growing user s demand for the electronic device as the electronic device is popularized. The electronic device uses a battery as a power source and a battery consumption amount is increased since the introduction of a smart electronic device causes an increase in the use of the Internet applications etc. a display size is increased and a Central Processing Unit CPU is improved in its resolution and performance. A high capacity battery is produced to cope with such a situation and there is a growing interest on quick charging of the high capacity battery.

A charging unit is included inside an electronic device. The charging unit included inside the electronic device receives a Direct Current DC voltage or power from an external device e.g. an adapter and provides a charging voltage or a charging current in accordance with the power of the external device. For example the charging unit included inside the electronic device may regulate the charging voltage to a constant voltage and may charge a battery with a pre set or specified charging current. Although a high charging current is required for the quick charging of the high capacity battery described above there is a limitation in the increase in the charging current or the charging voltage of the charging unit due to an internal heating problem or the like caused by the high charging current. Accordingly a charging time is inevitably increased when the high capacity battery is charged using the charging unit included inside the electronic device.

To address the above discussed deficiencies it is a primary object to decrease a charging time of a battery of an electronic device in such a manner that the battery included inside the electronic device is charged using not only a charging unit included inside the electronic device but also a charging unit included inside at least one external device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to avoid overheating of each charging unit and to achieve quick charging in such a manner that a charging current suitable for battery charging of an electronic device is processed in a distributed manner in a charging unit included inside the electronic device and a charging unit included inside at least one external device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide an adapter for down converting an Alternating Current AC power to a Direct Current DC voltage. The adapter may include at least one internal charging unit for outputting a charging voltage or charging current capable of charging a battery of an electronic device from the DC voltage or DC current and an output unit for providing the DC voltage and the charging current or charging voltage to a dock or an electronic device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a dock capable of holding an electronic device. The dock may include at least one charging unit for outputting a charging voltage and charging current capable of charging a battery of an electronic device from a DC voltage provided from an adapter and an output unit for providing the DC voltage and charging current or charging voltage provided from the adapter to the dock or the electronic device.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device includes a conversion unit configured to convert an Alternating Current AC voltage to a Direct Current DC voltage a first charging unit configured to generate a first charging voltage or current using the DC voltage and an output unit to provide the DC voltage and the first charging voltage or current to an external device.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a second electronic device to electrically couple between a first electronic device having a charging function and a third electronic device having a charging function is provided. The second electronic device includes an input unit configured to receive a Direct Current DC voltage and a first charging voltage or current from the first electronic device a second charging unit configured to generate a second charging voltage or current to charge a battery using the DC voltage and an output unit to provide the DC voltage and at least one of the first charging voltage or current and the second charging voltage or current to the third electronic device.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a third electronic device includes an input unit configured to receive at least one of a Direct Current power and a first charging voltage or current from a first electronic device and a Direct Current power and a second charging voltage or current from a second electronic device at least one third charging unit configured to generate at least one third charging voltage or current for charging an internal battery using the DC voltage and a battery configured to be charged by the at least one of the first charging voltage or current the second charging voltage or current and the at least one third charging voltage or current.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device includes a battery configured to supply a first DC voltage or current a conversion unit configured to convert the first DC voltage or current to a second DC voltage or current a first charging unit configured to generate a first charging voltage or current using the second DC voltage or current and an output unit to provide the second DC voltage or current and the first DC voltage or current.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an method of operating an electronic device having a charging function is provided. The method includes converting an Alternating Current voltage to a Direct Current voltage generating a first charging voltage or current using the DC voltage and providing the DC voltage and the first charging voltage or current to an external device.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure a method of operating a second electronic device to electrically couple between a first electronic device having a charging function and a third electronic device having a charging function is provided. the method includes receiving a Direct Current voltage and a first charging voltage or current from the first electronic device generating a second charging voltage or current to change a battery using the DC voltage and providing the DC voltage and at least one of the first charging voltage or current and the second charging voltage or current to the third electronic device.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure a method of operating a third electronic device having a charging function is provided. The method includes receiving at least one of i a Direct Current power and a first charging voltage or current from a first electronic device and ii a Direct Current power and a second charging voltage or current from a second electronic device generating at least one third charging voltage or current for charging an internal battery using the DC voltage and charging a battery using the first charging voltage or current the second charging voltage or current and the at least one third charging voltage or current.

Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below it may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this patent document the terms include and comprise as well as derivatives thereof mean inclusion without limitation the term or is inclusive meaning and or the phrases associated with and associated therewith as well as derivatives thereof may mean to include be included within interconnect with contain be contained within connect to or with couple to or with be communicable with cooperate with interleave juxtapose be proximate to be bound to or with have have a property of or the like and the term controller means any device system or part thereof that controls at least one operation such a device may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or distributed whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent document those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.

A third electronic device may be a device such as a mobile phone a mobile pad a media player a tablet computer a hand held computer or a Personal Digital Assistance PDA . The electronic device may be any electronic device including a device which combines two or more functions of the aforementioned devices.

Referring to the third electronic device may include an Application Processor AP a Communication Processor CP a memory a speaker a microphone a camera a display a touch panel a Power Manager integrated Circuit PMIC a battery a cellular antenna a Front End Module FEM a Wireless Connectivity WC antenna a WC unit a Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit WIC and a charging unit .

The AP performs an overall role of the third electronic device and may support an arithmetic processing function a contents reproduction function of various formats e.g. an audio image video or the like a graphic engine etc. The AP may drive an Operating System OS various functions etc. applied to the third electronic device . The AP may be constructed with one chip on which a great number of functions are integrated. The functions may be a core a memory a display system controller a multimedia encoding decoding codec a 2 Dimensional D 3D accelerator engine an Image Signal Processor ISP a camera an audio modem a variety of high low speed serial parallel connectivity interface etc. The AP drives the OS and applications and may be called a System On Chip SOC on which a function of controlling various system devices interfaces is integrated into one chip.

The CP enables voice communication and or data communication and may compress voice data and image data or may decompress the compressed data. The CP may be a baseband modem a Baseband Processor BP or the like. The CP may be designed to operate using one of a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM network an Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE network a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network a W Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA network a Long Term Evolution LTE network an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA network a Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi network a WiMax network and a Bluetooth network.

Although not shown the third electronic device may include a graphic processor or an audio processor. The graphic processor processes a graphic related operation and may serve for image information processing acceleration signal conversion screen output etc. The graphic processor may solve a bottleneck phenomenon generated due to a graphic task of the AP and may perform 2D or 3D graphic processing faster than the AP . The audio processor processes an audio related operation and may change an audio signal having a digital or analog format using an audio effect or an effect unit.

The memory may store a software related program i.e. an instruction set executable by the aforementioned processors. The memory may include a fast random access memory such as one or more magnetic disc storage devices and or a non volatile memory one or more optical storage devices and or a flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . A software component may include an operating system program a communication program a camera program a graphic program one or more application programs a user interface program a codec program etc. The terminology of program is also expressed as a set of instructions or an instruction set or a program. The communication program the camera program the graphic program the one or more application programs the user interface program and the codec program may be used through various Application Programming Interfaces APIs when the operating system program performs various functions. In addition to the aforementioned programs the memory may further include an additional program instructions .

The speaker may convert an electric signal into a sound of an audible frequency band and then may output the converted signal. The microphone may convert a sound wave delivered from human or other sound sources into an electric signal.

The camera may convert a light beam reflected from a subject of photography into an electric signal. The camera may include a Charged Coupled Device CCD a Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS etc.

The display may output an electric signal as visual information e.g. text graphic video etc. . The display may be one of an Electro Wetting Display EWD an E Paper a Plasma Display Panel PDP a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED and an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diodes AMOLED .

The touch panel may receive a touch input. The touch panel may be one of a digitizer for a stylus pen a capacitive overlap touch panel a resistance overlap touch panel a surface acoustic wave touch panel and an infrared beam touch panel.

The PMIC may regulate a power from the battery . For example the AP may transmit information to the PMIC with a load to be processed. The PMIC may regulate a core voltage to be supplied to the AP using the information provided from the AP and may drive the AP with a minimum power.

The FEM may be a transmission reception device capable of controlling a radio signal. The FEM may connect the cellular antenna and the RFIC and may separate a transmission reception signal. The FEM may take a role of filtering and amplification and may include a receiving side front end module including a filter for filtering a reception signal and a transmitting side front end module including a Power Amplifier Module PAM for amplifying a transmission signal.

The WC unit may be implemented by including various communication functions not processed by the processors and for example WiFi Bluetooth Near Field Communication NFC Universal Serial Bus USB or Global Positioning System GPS .

The RFIC e.g. RF transceiver may receive a radio frequency from a base station and may modulate a received high frequency band into a low frequency band i.e. a baseband that may be processed in a module e.g. the CP . For transmission of the base station the RFIC may modulate the low frequency processed in the module into a high frequency.

The charging unit may charge the battery . The charging unit may generate a charge voltage and charge current required for battery charging from a Direct Current DC voltage received from an external element and may charge the battery using the generated charge voltage and charging current. The charging unit may charge the battery using at least one of the charge voltage and charging current received from the external element e.g. an adapter or a dock . According to various exemplary embodiments the at least one charging voltage and charging current received from the external device may be provided directly to the battery through another connecting part or line or passage not via the charging unit . For example the at least one charging voltage and charging current received from the external device may be provided to the battery through a direct connecting part or line or passage between a device socket connector for connecting the external device and the electronic device and the battery included inside the electronic device.

The charging unit may decrease a DC voltage i.e. 5V supplied from the external device to a charging voltage i.e. 4.2V for charging. The battery may be safe if charged with a charging voltage not exceeding an allowable voltage. The battery may be safe if charged with a charging current not exceeding an allowable current. If the battery is charged with a charging voltage higher than the allowable voltage the battery may be exploded. If the battery is charged with a charging current higher than the allowable current the battery may be heated. The charging unit may regulate the charging voltage to a constant voltage and may avoid the explosion of the battery . The charging voltage from the charging unit of the third electronic device and a charging voltage from the charging unit of the external device may satisfy a voltage allowed to charge the battery and the battery may be avoided from explosion. The charging current from the charging unit of the third electronic device and a charging current from a charging unit of the external device may satisfy a current allowed to charge the battery and the battery may be avoided from heating. The charging unit may regulate a level of the charging current by considering a level of the charging current from the charging unit of the external device. The charging unit may perform a constant current charging operation and a constant voltage charging operation when charging the battery . The charging unit may proceed to a constant current charging operation for charging the battery with a constant current and may increase a voltage of the battery . When the voltage of the battery reaches a full voltage e.g. 4.2V the charging unit may transition to a constant voltage charging operation for charging the battery with a charging voltage i.e. 4.2V . The charging unit decreases the charging current to the battery according to a time while performing the constant voltage charging operation and may recognize that the charging of the battery is complete when the charging current reaches a cutoff current. The charging unit of the external device may also perform such a constant current charging operation and a constant voltage charging operation. The charging unit may include an external port electrically connectable to the external device e.g. an adapter dock etc. . The external port may be a male connector e.g. a plug or a female connector.

Although only one charging unit is illustrated in according to various exemplary embodiments the electronic device may include a plurality of charging units by combining wired charging units and wireless charging units. Regarding the charging unit a plurality of charging units may be constructed using a linear charger or using a switching charger or by combining the linear charger and the switching charger. The linear charger is constructed with a simple circuit and does not use high frequency switching. Therefore even if reliable power is supplied efficiency may deteriorate. The aforementioned switching charger charges a voltage and a current through regulation by switching a rectified DC current at a high speed. The switching charger may have higher efficiency than the linear charger since the current or the voltage is regulated using high speed switching.

In various exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure described hereinafter a first electronic device may be a charging adapter electrically connected to the third electronic device or an external charging electronic device and second electronic devices and may be a dock capable of holding the third electronic device .

Referring to a first charging electronic device may include an AC power input unit an AC DC conversion unit a first charging unit and an output unit .

The AC power input unit may receive an AC power of 100 to 220 V. The AC power input unit may include a plug. If a user inserts the plug of the first electronic device to a plug socket or other AC power source installed in home the AC power input unit may receive the AC power . The AC power input unit may output the AC power received through a connecting part or line with the AC DC conversion unit .

The AC DC conversion unit or simply the AC DC converter may receive the AC power through the connecting part or line with the AC power input unit . The AC DC conversion unit may down convert the AC power to a DC voltage . The AC DC conversion unit may provide the down converted DC voltage to the first charging unit and the output unit through the connecting part or line. The charging unit may receive the DC voltage through a connecting part or line with the AC DC conversion unit . The first charging unit or simply the first charger may generate a first charging voltage or first charging current capable of charging the battery of the third electronic device from the received DC voltage or DC current and may output the generated first charging voltage or first charging current through a connecting part or line with the output unit . The first charging unit may regulate a level of the first charging current by considering a level of a charging current of at least one charging unit included in at least one device e.g. the electronic device or the dock connected to the first charging electronic device . The first charging voltage may be a voltage allowed to charge the battery .

The output unit may output the DC voltage received through a connecting part or line with the AC DC conversion unit . The output unit may provide the first charging voltage or first charging current received through the connecting part or line with the first charging unit to the external device e.g. the electronic device or the dock . The output unit may include a male connector plug or female connector electrically connectable to the external port of the third electronic device or a connector of a dock of . The output unit may include a male connector plug or female connector electrically connectable to a connector of a cable. The output unit may include a cable constituting a male connector plug or a female connector at an end portion. Meanwhile the male connector or female connector of the output unit may include a plurality of nodes. Any one of the plurality of nodes may output the DC voltage or DC current from the AC DC conversion unit . Any one of the plurality of nodes may output the first charging voltage or charging current from the first charging unit .

Referring to an external charging electronic device may include a DC power input unit a DC DC conversion unit a first charging unit and an output unit .

The DC power input unit may be electrically connected to a DC power source e.g. a battery an external DC power input etc. hereinafter called a first DC power . For example at least one of a battery and an external DC power may be provided to the DC power input unit . The DC DC conversion unit or simply the DC DC converter may receive the first DC power through a connecting part or line with the DC power input unit . The DC DC conversion unit may convert the first DC power into a second DC voltage or current . In this case the first DC power may be higher or lower than the second DC voltage. The DC DC conversion unit may provide the converted second DC voltage to the first charging unit and the output unit through the connecting part or line. The first charging unit or simply the first charger may receive the second DC voltage through a connecting part or line with the DC DC conversion unit . The first charging unit may generate a first charging voltage or first charging current capable of charging the battery of the third electronic device from the received second DC voltage or DC current and may output the generated first charging voltage or first charging current through a connecting part or line with the output unit . The first charging unit may regulate a level of the first charging current by considering a level of a charging current of at least one charging unit included in at least one device e.g. the electronic device or the dock connected to the external charging electronic device . The first charging voltage may be a voltage allowed to charge the battery .

The output unit may output the first DC voltage received through a connecting part or line with the DC DC conversion unit . The output unit may provide the first charging voltage or first charging current received through the connecting part or line with the first charging unit to the external device e.g. the electronic device or the dock . The output unit may include a male connector plug or female connector electrically connectable to the external port of the third electronic device or a connector of a dock of . The output unit may include a male connector plug or female connector electrically connectable to a connector of a cable. The output unit may include a cable constituting a male connector plug or a female connector at an end portion. Meanwhile the male connector or female connector of the output unit may include a plurality of nodes. Any one of the plurality of nodes may output the first DC voltage or DC current from the DC DC conversion unit . Any one of the plurality of nodes may output the first charging voltage or charging current from the first charging unit .

Although only one first charging unit is illustrated in and according to various exemplary embodiments a plurality of charging units may be provided by combining wired charging Units and wireless charging units. The plurality of charging units may be constructed using a linear charger. The plurality of charging units may be constructed using a switching charger. The plurality of charging units may be constructed by combining the linear charger and the switching charger.

Referring to the first electronic device of may include an AC power input unit an AC DC conversion unit a first charging unit and an output unit . The AC power input unit may be connected to an AC power source and may receive an AC power . The AC power input unit may output the AC power received through a connecting part or line with the AC DC conversion unit . The AC DC conversion unit may convert the AC power received from the AC power input unit into a DC voltage . The AC DC conversion unit may provide the converted DC voltage to the charging unit and the output unit . The first charging unit may generate a first charging voltage or first charging current for charging a battery of a third electronic device using the DC voltage received from the AC DC conversion unit and may provide the generated first charging voltage or first charging current to the output unit . The first charging unit may regulate a level of the first charging current by considering a level of a third charging current charged by a third charging unit of the third electronic device . A sum of the first charging current of the first electronic device and the third charging current of the third electronic device may not exceed a current allowed for battery charging. The output unit may output the DC voltage received from the AC DC conversion unit to an external port of the third electronic device . In addition the output unit may output the first charging voltage or first charging current received from the first charging unit to the external port of the third electronic device .

Herein the first charging voltage or first charging current provided from the first electronic device to the third electronic device may be provided with a delay of a specific time according to a charging start order. For example when charging starts in an order of the third charging unit of the third electronic device and the first charging unit of the first electronic device until a level of the third charging current of the third charging unit of the third electronic device is determined according to a first pre defined control signal procedure the output unit of the first electronic device may output the first charging current with a delay. Since an output of the DC voltage of the AC DC conversion unit is provided simultaneously to the first charging unit and the third charging unit in order to provide a voltage and a current reliably according to a constant voltage current capacity etc. of the AC DC conversion unit the first electronic device may provide the voltage and the current sequentially to the third electronic device with a delay of a specific time.

In another exemplary embodiment in an order of the first charging unit of the first electronic device and the third charging unit of the third electronic device until a level of the first charging current of the first charging unit of the first electronic device is determined according to a first pre defined control signal procedure the third charging unit of the third electronic device may delay the output of the third charging current in order to provide a voltage and a current reliably according to a static voltage current capacity etc. of the AC DC conversion unit . In this case the third charging current of the charging unit of the third electronic device may be provided to the battery with a delay of a specific time.

The third charging unit or simply the third charger of the third electronic device may receive the DC voltage from the output unit of the first electronic device . The third charging unit of the third electronic device may generate a third charging voltage and third charging current required for battery charging using the DC voltage . The third charging unit of the third electronic device may provide the third charging voltage or the third charging current to the battery . Meanwhile the third electronic device may provide the first charging voltage or first charging current received through an external port to the battery .

In various exemplary embodiments the third charging voltage or third charging current of the third charging unit of the third electronic device and the first charging voltage or first charging current of the first charging unit of the first electronic device may be added and provided to the battery or the third charging voltage or third charging current of the third charging unit of the third electronic device and the first charging voltage or first charging current of the first charging unit of the first electronic device may be provided to the battery through respective additional connection lines.

The battery may be charged by the first charging voltage or first charging current and the third charging voltage or third charging current received from the third charging unit .

In the first charging unit of the first electronic device and the third charging unit of the third electronic device each of the charging currents and may be regulated not to exceed a current allowed to charge the battery . A sum of the first charging current from the first charging unit of the first electronic device and the third charging current from the third charging unit of the third electronic device may not exceed a maximum current allowed to charge the battery .

Meanwhile the first charging unit of the first electronic device may set a time delay regarding a start of a charging operation and the third charging unit of the third electronic device may perform a reliable charging operation with the pre set third charging current earlier than that of the first charging unit of the first electronic device . The first charging unit of the first electronic device may perform a reliable charging operation with the pre set first charging current or may perform a reliable charging operation with the maximum first charging current by considering a level of the third charging current of the third charging unit of the third electronic device within a range of an allowable charging current of the battery or the first electronic device . In various exemplary embodiments the reliable charging operation may be an operation in which a charging current is regulated between the battery and the charging unit in such a manner that the charging unit provides the battery with a possible charging current when the battery requests the charging unit a pre set charging current level or a maximum charging current level. Herein the maximum charging current may be a constant voltage current or power of the first electronic device e.g. adapter .

For example if the constant voltage of the first electronic device is 5V 2 A the maximum first charging current considering the level of the third charging current of the third charging unit of the third electronic device may imply the remaining all or some currents excluding the third charging current of the third charging unit from the constant current of the adaptor.

In various exemplary embodiments the reliable charging operation implies an operation in which the DC current is regulated between the charging units and and the first electronic device in such a manner that the first electronic device provides the charging units and with the possible DC voltage when the charging units and request the first electronic device the pre set charging current level or the maximum charging current level.

In other words the maximum charging current may be determined by an Automatic Input Current Limit AICL function and the battery may be charged with a pre set specific current instead of a maximum charging current according to various exemplary embodiments.

The third charging unit of the third electronic device may set a time delay regarding a charging operation and the first charging unit of the first electronic device may perform a reliable charging operation with the pre set first charging current earlier than that of the third charging unit of the third electronic device . The third charging unit of the third electronic device may perform a reliable charging operation with the pre set third charging current or may perform a reliable charging operation with the maximum third charging current by considering a level of the first charging current of the first charging unit of the first electronic device within a range of an allowable charging current of the battery or the first electronic device . Herein the maximum third charging current considering the level of the first charging current of the first charging unit of the first electronic device may imply the remaining all or some currents excluding the third charging current of the first charging unit from the constant current of the adaptor.

In another exemplary embodiment the third charging unit of the third electronic device may perform a reliable charging operation with the pre set third charging current earlier than that of the charging unit of the first electronic device and thereafter the first charging unit of the first electronic device may perform a reliable charging operation with the pre set first charging current or may perform a reliable charging operation with the maximum first charging current considering the third charging current of the third charging unit of the third electronic device within a range of an allowable charging current of the battery or the first electronic device . Herein the maximum first charging current considering the third charging current of the third charging unit of the third electronic device may imply the remaining all or some currents excluding the third charging current of the third charging unit from the constant current of the adaptor.

The third charging unit of the third electronic device and the first charging unit of the first electronic device may end the operation when the voltage and current capacity battery capacity of the battery is fully charged.

Although illustrates only one third charging unit in the third electronic device and only one first charging unit in the first electronic device according to various exemplary embodiments the third electronic device or the first electronic device may include a plurality of charging units by combining wired charging units and wireless charging units. The plurality of charging units may be constructed by using a linear charger. The plurality of charging units may be constructed by using a switching charger. The plurality of charging units may be constructed by combining the linear charger and the switching charger.

Referring to the second electronic device may include an input unit a second charging unit and an output unit .

The input unit may include a plug socket. A plug of an external device and the plug socket of the second electronic device may be electrically connected. The input unit may receive a DC voltage from the external device e.g. the first electronic device . The input unit may provide the DC voltage to the second charging unit and the output unit .

The second charging unit or simply the second charger may receive the DC voltage through a connecting part or line with the input unit . The second charging unit may generate a first charging voltage and first charging current capable of charging the battery of the third electronic device from the received DC voltage and may provide the generated first charging voltage and first charging current to the output unit . The second charging unit may regulate a level of the first charging current by considering a level of a charging current generated from at least one charging unit included in at least one device e.g. the electronic device connected to the second electronic device . The first charging voltage may be a voltage allowed to charge the battery .

The output unit may output the DC voltage received through a connecting part or line with the input unit . The output unit may output the first charging voltage and first charging current received through a connecting part or line with the charging unit . The output unit may include a male connector plug or female connector socket electrically connectable to an external port of the third electronic device . The output unit may include a male connector plug or female connector socket electrically connectable to a connector of a cable. The male connector or female connector of the output unit may include a plurality of nodes. Any one of the plurality of nodes may output the DC voltage . Any one of the plurality of nodes may output the first charging voltage and the first charging current .

Although illustrates only one second charging unit in the second electronic device according to various exemplary embodiments the second electronic device may include a plurality of charging units by combining wired charging units and wireless charging units. In addition the charging unit herein may be at least one of a linear charging unit and a switching charging unit. If a plurality of charging units are used the plurality of charging units may be constructed by combining the linear charging unit and the switching charging unit or may be constructed by combining a plurality of linear charging units and a plurality of switching charging units.

Referring to a second electronic device may include an input unit a second charging unit and an output unit . The input unit may receive a DC voltage from the external device. The input unit may output the DC voltage received through a connecting part or line with the output unit . The input unit may output the DC voltage through a connecting part or line with the second charging unit . The second charging unit may generate a first charging voltage and first charging current capable of charging a battery of a third electronic device from the DC voltage received from the input unit and may output the generated first charging voltage and first charging current through a connecting part or line with the output unit . The second charging unit may regulate a level of the first charging current by considering a level of a second charging current generated from a third charging unit of the third electronic device . A sum of the first charging current and the second charging current may not exceed a current allowed for battery charging. The output unit may output the DC voltage received from the input unit to the external port of the third electronic device . In addition the output unit may output the first charging voltage and first charging current received from the second charging unit to the external port of the third electronic device .

The third charging unit of the third electronic device may receive the DC voltage from the output unit of the second electronic device through the external port. In addition the external port of the third electronic device may receive the first charging voltage and the first charging current from the second charging unit of the second electronic device .

The third charging unit of the third electronic device may generate the second charging voltage and second charging current required for battery charging from the DC voltage received through the second electronic device . The third charging unit of the third electronic device may output the second charging voltage or the second charging current through a connecting part or line with the battery . The battery may be charged by the second charging voltage or second charging current received from the third charging unit and the first charging voltage and first charging current received through the external port of the third electronic device .

In various exemplary embodiments the second charging voltage or second charging current of the third charging unit of the third electronic device and the first charging voltage or first charging current of the second charging unit of the second electronic device may be added and provided to the battery or the second charging voltage or second charging current of the third charging unit of the third electronic device and the first charging voltage or first charging current of the second charging unit of the second electronic device may be provided to the battery through respective additional connection lines.

The second charging unit of the second electronic device and the third charging unit of the third electronic device may regulate each of the charging currents and not to exceed a current allowed to charge the battery . A sum of the first charging current from the second charging unit of the second electronic device and the second charging current from the third charging unit of the third electronic device may not exceed the current allowed to charge the battery .

Meanwhile the second charging unit of the second electronic device may perform a time delay regarding a start of a charging operation and the third charging unit of the third electronic device may perform a reliable charging operation with the pre set second charging current earlier than that of the second charging unit of the second electronic device .

The second charging unit of the second electronic device may perform a reliable charging operation with the pre set first charging current or may perform a reliable charging operation with the maximum first charging current by considering a level of the second charging current of the third charging unit of the third electronic device within a range of an allowable charging current of the battery or the first electronic device . Herein the maximum first charging current considering the level of the second charging current of the third charging unit of the third electronic device may imply the remaining all or some currents excluding the second charging current of the third charging unit from the constant current of the adaptor.

In another exemplary embodiment the third charging unit of the third electronic device may set a time delay regarding charging and the second charging unit of the second electronic device may perform a reliable charging operation with the pre set charging current earlier than that of the third charging unit of the third electronic device . The third charging unit of the third electronic device performs a reliable charging operation with the pre set second charging current or may perform a reliable charging operation with the maximum second charging current by considering a level of the first charging current of the second charging unit of the second electronic device within a range of an allowable charging current of the battery or the first electronic device . Herein the maximum second charging current considering the first charging current of the second charging unit of the second electronic device may imply the remaining all or some currents excluding the first charging current of the second charging unit from the constant current of the adaptor.

The third charging unit of the third electronic device and the second charging unit of the second electronic device may end the operation when the voltage and current capacity battery capacity of the battery is fully charged.

Although illustrates only one charging unit in the third electronic device and only one charging unit in the second electronic device according to various exemplary embodiments the third electronic device or the second electronic device may include a plurality of charging units by combining wired charging units and wireless charging units. The plurality of charging units may be constructed by using a linear charger. The plurality of charging units may be constructed by using a switching charger. The plurality of charging units may be constructed by combining the linear charger and the switching charger.

The input unit may include a plug socket. A plug of the first electronic device and the plug socket of the dock may be electrically connected. The input unit may receive the DC voltage from the output unit of the first electronic device and the first charging voltage and the first charging current . Herein the first charging voltage and the first charging current are a charging voltage and charging current generated by the first charging unit in the first electronic device . The input unit may output a DC voltage through a connecting part or line with the output unit . The input unit may output the DC voltage through a connecting part or line with a second charging unit . In addition the input unit may provide a first charging voltage or a first charging current through the connecting part or line with the output unit .

The second charging unit or simply the second charger may receive the DC voltage from the input unit through the connecting part or line with the input unit . The second charging unit may generate a second charging voltage and second charging current capable of charging the battery of the third electronic device from the received DC voltage and may output the generated second charging voltage and second charging current through a connecting part or line with the output unit . In various exemplary embodiments the first charging voltage or first charging current and the second charging voltage or second charging current may be added and provided to the output unit . Alternatively the first charging voltage or first charging current and the second charging voltage or second charging current may be provided to the output unit through respective additional connection lines.

The second charging unit may regulate a level of the second charging current by considering a level of a charging current generated from at least one charging unit included in at least one device e.g. the third electronic device the first electronic device connected to the dock . The second charging voltage may be a voltage allowed to charge the battery . The second charging unit may output the second charging voltage or the second charging current through the connecting part or line with the output unit .

The output unit may output the DC voltage received through the connecting part or line with the input unit . In addition the output unit may output the first charging voltage and first charging current received through the input unit . In addition the output unit may output the second charging voltage and second charging current received through the connecting part or line with the second charging unit . The output unit may include a male connector plug or a female connector electrically connectable to an external port of the third electronic device . The output unit may include a male connector plug or female connector electrically connectable to a connector of a cable. The male connector or female connector of the output unit may include a plurality of nodes. Any one of the plurality of nodes may output the DC voltage any one of the plurality of nodes may output the first charging voltage of the first charging current and any one of the plurality of nodes may output the second charging voltage or the second charging current see . In various exemplary embodiments the first charging voltage or first charging current and the second charging voltage or second charging current may be added and output through any one of the plurality of nodes.

Although illustrates only one charging unit in the dock according to various exemplary embodiments the dock may include a plurality of charging units by combining wired charging units and wireless charging units. The plurality of charging units may be constructed by using a linear charger. The plurality of charging units may be constructed by using a switching charger. The plurality of charging units may be constructed by combining the linear charger and the switching charger.

Referring to a first electronic device may include an AC power input unit an AC DC conversion unit a first charging unit and an output unit . The AC power input unit may be connected to an AC power source and may receive an AC power . The AC power input unit may output the AC power received through a connecting part or line with the AC DC conversion unit . The AC DC conversion unit may convert the AC power received from the AC power input unit into a DC voltage . The AC DC conversion unit may output the converted DC voltage through a connecting part or line with the output unit . The AC DC conversion unit may output the converted DC voltage through a connecting part or line with the first charging unit . The first charging unit may generate a first charging voltage and first charging current capable of charging a battery of a third electronic device from the DC voltage received from the AC DC conversion unit and may output the generated first charging voltage or first charging current through a connecting part or line with the output unit . The output unit may output the DC voltage received from the AC DC conversion unit to an external port of the third electronic device . In addition the output unit may output the first charging voltage or first charging current received from the charging unit to the external port of the third electronic device .

A dock may include an input unit a second charging unit and an output unit . The input unit may receive the DC voltage from the output unit of the first electronic device and the first charging voltage or first charging current . The input unit may output the DC voltage through a connecting part or line with respect to the output unit . That is the dock delivers the DC voltage provided from the first electronic device to the third electronic device .

The input unit may output the DC voltage through a connecting part or line with the charging unit . The input unit may output the first charging voltage and the first charging current through the connecting part or line with the output unit . The second charging unit may receive the DC voltage from the input unit . The second charging unit may generate a second charging voltage and second charging current capable of charging the battery of the third electronic device from the received DC voltage and may output the generated second charging voltage and second charging current through a connecting part or line with the output unit .

In this case in various exemplary embodiments the first charging voltage or first charging current and the second charging voltage or second charging current may be added and provided to the output unit . Alternatively the first charging voltage or first charging current and the second charging voltage or second charging current may be provided to the output unit through respective additional connection lines.

The second charging unit may output the second charging voltage and the second charging current through the connecting part or line with the output unit . The output unit may output the DC voltage received through the connecting part or line with the input unit . In addition the output unit may output the first charging voltage and first charging current of the first electronic device received through the connecting part or line with the input unit see . In addition the output unit may output the second charging voltage and second charging current received through the connecting part or line with the second charging unit . In this case in various exemplary embodiments the first charging voltage or first charging current and the second charging voltage or second charging current may be added and provided to the third electronic device . Alternatively the first charging voltage or first charging current and the second charging voltage or second charging current may be separately provided to the third electronic device .

The third charging unit of the third electronic device may receive the DC voltage the first charging voltage the first charging current the second charging voltage and the second charging current from the output unit of the dock . The third charging unit of the third electronic device may generate a third charging voltage and third charging current required for battery charging from the DC voltage . The third charging unit of the third electronic device may output the first charging voltage and the first charging current through a connecting part or line with the battery . The third charging unit of the third electronic device may output the second charging voltage and the second charging current through a connecting part or line with the battery . The third charging unit of the third electronic device may output the third charging voltage and the third charging current through a connecting part or line with the battery . The battery may be charged by the first charging voltage first charging current second charging voltage second charging current third charging voltage and third charging current received from the charging unit .

The first charging voltage from the first charging unit of the first electronic device the second charging voltage from the second charging unit of the dock and the third charging voltage from the third charging unit of the third electronic device may be a voltage allowed to charge the battery . The first charging unit of the first electronic device the second charging unit of the dock and the third charging unit of the third electronic device may regulate each of the charging currents and not to exceed a maximum current allowed to charge the battery and the first electronic device . A sum of the first charging current from the first charging unit of the first electronic device the second charging current from the second charging unit of the dock and the third charging current from the third charging unit of the third electronic device may not exceed the maximum current allowed to charge the battery . In other words the maximum charging current may be determined by an Automatic Input Current Limit AICL function and the battery may be charged with a pre set specific current instead of a maximum charging current according to various exemplary embodiments.

At least one of the first charging unit of first electronic device the second charging unit of the dock and the third charging unit of the third electronic device may set a time delay regarding a start of a charging operation. Any one charging unit in which the time delay is set may perform a charging operation later than that of the other charging units. The charging unit which performs the charging operation earlier than that of the other charging units may perform a reliable charging operation with a pre set charging current.

The first charging unit of the first electronic device the second charging unit of the dock and the third charging unit of the third electronic device may end the operation when the battery is fully charged.

Although illustrates only one third charging unit in the third electronic device only one first charging unit in the first electronic device and only one second charging unit in the dock according to various exemplary embodiments the third electronic device or the first electronic device or the second electronic device may include a plurality of charging units by combining wired charging units and wireless charging units. The plurality of charging units may be constructed by using a linear charger. The plurality of charging units may be constructed by using a switching charger. The plurality of charging units may be constructed by combining the linear charger and the switching charger.

Referring to in step the input unit of the first electronic device may receive an AC power. In step the AC DC conversion unit of the first electronic device down converts the AC power to a DC voltage. In step the first charging unit of the first electronic device may generate a charging voltage and charging current for charging a battery of the electronic device from the DC voltage. In step the output unit of the first electronic device may provide the DC voltage and charging voltage or the charging current to the electronic device or the dock. If the battery of the third electronic device is determined to be fully charged in step the AC DC conversion unit and first charging unit of the first electronic device may end the operation.

Referring to in step the input unit of the second electronic device may receive a DC voltage from an external device. In step the second charging unit of the second electronic device may generate a charging voltage and charging current for charging a battery of the electronic device using the DC voltage. In step the output unit of the second electronic device may output the DC voltage the charging voltage and the charging current. In step if the battery of the third electronic device is fully charged the second charging unit of the second electronic device may end the operation.

Referring to in step the input unit of the dock may receive a DC voltage and a first charging voltage or first charging current from the first electronic device . In step the second charging unit of the dock may generate a second charging voltage and second charging current for charging a battery of the electronic device using the DC voltage. In step the output unit of the dock may provide the DC voltage received from the first electronic device the first charging voltage or first charging current and the second charging voltage or second charging current to the electronic device. Herein the first charging voltage or second charging current is a voltage or current generated by the first electronic device and the second charging voltage or second charging current is a voltage or current generated by the second charging unit in the dock .

In various exemplary embodiments the first charging voltage or first charging current and the second charging voltage or second charging current may be added and provided to the electronic device. Alternatively the first charging voltage or first charging current and the second charging voltage or second charging current may be separately provided to the electronic device.

In step if the battery of the third electronic device is fully charged the second charging unit of the dock may end the operation.

Referring to in step the third electronic device may receive a DC voltage first and second charging voltages and first and second charging currents. Herein the first charging voltage or first charging current is a voltage or current generated by the first electronic device and the second charging voltage or second charging current is a voltage or current generated by the dock . The DC voltage may be generated by the first electronic device and delivered through the dock .

In step the third charging unit of the third electronic device may generate a third charging voltage and third charging current for charging the battery from the DC voltage. In step the third charging unit of the third electronic device may charge the battery by providing the battery with the first charging voltage or first charging current the second charging voltage or second charging current and the third charging voltage or third charging current. In step if the battery is completely charged the charging unit of the third electronic device may end the operation.

In step the charging unit of the first electronic device may confirm whether a charging unit of an external device e.g. the electronic device and or the dock is connected. If the charging unit of the external device is connected in step the first charging unit of the first electronic device may regulate a level of a charging current in response to a level of the charging current which is set in the charging unit of the external device. Otherwise if the charging unit of the external device is not connected in step the first charging unit of the first electronic device may set the level of the charging current to a maximum level. The operations of are also applicable to the dock or the third electronic device .

Referring to in step the charging unit of the first electronic device may confirm whether a charging unit of an external device e.g. the electronic device the dock is connected. If the charging unit of the external device is connected in step the first charging unit of the first electronic device may delay the operation. The operations of are also applicable to the dock or the third electronic device .

At least one of the charging unit of the third electronic device the first charging unit of the first electronic device and the second charging unit of the dock may set a time delay regarding the operation. For example if the third electronic device and the first electronic device are connected the third charging unit of the third electronic device may perform a reliable operation charging for outputting a pre set charging current earlier than that of the first charging unit of the first electronic device and the first charging unit of the first electronic device may operate after the time delay. The first charging unit of the first electronic device may regulate a level of a charging current by considering a level of the charging current which is set in the third charging unit of the third electronic device . A sum of the charging current output from the third charging unit of the third electronic device and the charging current output from the first charging unit of the first electronic device may not exceed an allowable charging current of the battery .

An electronic device is connected to at least one external device e.g. an adapter a dock etc. having a charging unit and a battery of the electronic device is charged not only by an internal charging unit of the electronic device but also by a charging unit of at least one external device thereby being able to decrease a charging time of the battery. Since a charging current conforming to an allowable charging current of a high capacity battery of the electronic device is processed in a distributed manner in a charging unit of the electronic device and a charging unit of at least one external device a heat generated during charging is processed in a distributed manner thereby being able to decrease a charging time while decreasing heating of the electronic device.

In accordance with first implementations of the present disclosure an electronic device includes a conversion unit configured to convert an Alternating Current AC voltage to a Direct Current DC voltage a first charging unit configured to generate a first charging voltage or current using the DC voltage and an output unit to provide the DC voltage and the first charging voltage or current to an external device such as the second electronic device or the third electronic device .

In accordance with first implementations of the present disclosure the electronic device further includes a first connecting part to deliver the DC voltage to the output unit and the first charging unit and a second connecting part to deliver the first charging voltage or current to the output unit .

In accordance with first implementations of the present disclosure the first charging unit is configured to regulate a level related to the first charging voltage or current based at least in part on a level related to a second charging voltage or current output from a second charging unit included inside the external device such as the second electronic device or the third electronic device .

In accordance with first implementations of the present disclosure a sum of the second charging current output from the external device such as the third electronic device or a dock and the first charging current output from the output unit does not exceed an allowable charging current related to a battery such as battery of the third electronic device .

In accordance with first implementations of the present disclosure the first charging current comprises a charging current having a specified level or a maximum charging current that may be allowed within a range of an allowable charging current related to the electronic device .

In accordance with first implementations of the present disclosure the first charging unit is configured to charge the battery such as battery of the third electronic device using the first charging current without a specified time delay when the first charging current is the charging current having the specified level and to charge the battery using the first charging current after the specified time delay when the first charging current is the maximum charging current that may be allowed within the range of the permitted charging current related to the electronic device .

In accordance with first implementations of the present disclosure the external device is either electrically coupled directly to the electronic device or capable of docking another electronic device such as the third electronic device and electrically coupling the electronic device and the other electronic device.

In accordance with second implementations of the present disclosure a second electronic device to electrically couple between a first electronic device having a charging function and a third electronic device having a charging function is provided. The second electronic device includes an input unit configured to receive a Direct Current voltage and a first charging voltage or current from the first electronic device a second charging unit configured to generate a second charging voltage or current to charge a battery using the DC voltage and an output unit to provide the DC voltage and at least one of the first charging voltage or current and the second charging voltage or current to the third electronic device .

In accordance with second implementations of the present disclosure the second electronic device further includes a first connecting part to deliver the DC voltage to the output unit and the second charging unit and a second connecting part to deliver the first charging voltage or current and the second charging voltage or current to the output unit . The first charging voltage or current is a charging voltage or current provided from the first charging unit included inside the first electronic device .

In accordance with second implementations of the present disclosure the second charging unit is configured to regulate a level related to the second charging voltage or current based at least in part on a level related to the first charging voltage current from a first charging unit included inside the first electronic device and a third charging voltage or current from a third charging unit included inside the third electronic device .

In accordance with second implementations of the present disclosure a sum of the first charging current output from the first electronic device the third charging current output from the third electronic device and the second charging current output from the second electronic device does not exceed an allowable charging current of a battery such as battery of the third electronic device .

In accordance with second implementations of the present disclosure the first charging current or the second charging current comprises a charging current having a specified level or a maximum charging current that may be allowed within a range of an allowable charging current related to the first electronic device .

In accordance with second implementations of the present disclosure the second charging unit is configured to charge the battery using the second charging current without a specified time delay when the second charging current is the charging current having the specified level and to charge the battery using the second charging current after the specified time delay when the second charging current is the maximum charging current that may be allowed within the range of the permitted charging current related to the first electronic device .

In accordance with second implementations of the present disclosure the battery is inserted inside the third electronic device and is used as a power source of the third electronic device .

In accordance with third implementations of the present disclosure a third electronic device includes an input unit configured to receive at least one of a DC power and a first charging voltage or current from a first electronic device and a DC power and a second charging voltage or current from a second electronic device at least one third charging unit or simply at least one third charger configured to generate at least one third charging voltage or current for charging an internal battery using the DC voltage and a battery configured to be charged by the at least one of the first charging voltage or current the second charging voltage or current and the at least one third charging voltage or current.

In accordance with third implementations of the present disclosure the first electronic device is an adapter and the second electronic device is a dock for docking the third electronic device .

In accordance with third implementations of the present disclosure a level related to the at least one third charging voltage or current is regulated based at least in part on the first charging voltage or current and the second charging voltage or current.

In accordance with third implementations of the present disclosure a sum of the at least one of the first charging current and the second charging current and the at least one third charging current does not exceed an allowable charging current related to the battery .

In accordance with third implementations of the present disclosure wherein the first second or third charging current comprises a charging current having a specified level or a maximum charging current that may be allowed within a range of an allowable charging current related to the first electronic device .

In accordance with third implementations of the present disclosure the at least one third charging unit is configured to charge the battery using the at least one third charging current without a specified time delay when the at least one third charging current is the charging current having the specified level and to charge the battery using the at least one third charging current after the specific time delay when the at least one third charging current is the maximum charging current that may be allowed within the range of the permitted charging current related to the first electronic device .

In accordance with fourth implementations of the present disclosure a method of operating an electronic device having a charging function is provided. The method includes converting an Alternating Current AC voltage to a Direct Current DC voltage step generating a first charging voltage or current using the DC voltage step and providing the DC voltage and the first charging voltage or current to an external device such as the second electronic device or the third electronic device step .

In accordance with fourth implementations of the present disclosure the method further includes regulating a level related to the first charging voltage or current based at least in part on a level related to a second charging voltage or current from a second charging unit included inside the external device such as the second electronic device or the third electronic device .

In accordance with fourth implementations of the present disclosure a sum of the second charging current from the external device such as the third electronic device or a dock and the first charging current from the electronic device does not exceed an allowable charging current related to a battery such as the battery of the third electronic device .

In accordance with fourth implementations of the present disclosure the first charging current comprises a charging current having a specified level or a maximum charging current that may be allowed within a range of an allowable charging current related to the electronic device .

In accordance with fourth implementations of the present disclosure the method further includes charging the battery using the first charging current without a specified time delay when the first charging current is the charging current having the specified level and charging the battery using the first charging current after the specific time delay when the first charging current is the maximum charging current that may be allowed within the range of the permitted charging current related to the electronic device .

In accordance with fourth implementations of the present disclosure the external device is either electrically coupled directly to the electronic device or capable of docking another electronic device and electrically coupling the electronic device and the other electronic device.

In accordance with fifth implementations of the present disclosure a method of operating a second electronic device to electrically couple between a first electronic device having a charging function and a third electronic device having a charging function is provided. The method includes receiving a Direct Current DC voltage and a first charging voltage or current from the first electronic device step generating a second charging voltage or current to change a battery using the DC voltage step and providing the DC voltage and at least one of the first charging voltage or current and the second charging voltage or current to the third electronic device step .

In accordance with fifth implementations of the present disclosure the first charging voltage or current is a charging voltage or current provided from a first charging unit included inside the first electronic device and the second charging voltage or second charging current is a charging voltage or current provided from a second charging unit of the second electronic device .

In accordance with fifth implementations of the present disclosure the method further includes regulating a level related to the second charging voltage or current based at least in part on a level related to the first charging voltage or current from the first electronic device and a third charging voltage or current from the third electronic device .

In accordance with fifth implementations of the present disclosure a sum of the first charging current the third charging current and the second charging current does not exceed an allowable charging current of a battery such as battery of the third electronic device .

In accordance with fifth implementations of the present disclosure the first charging current or the second charging current comprises a charging current having a specified level or a maximum charging current that may be allowed within a range of an allowable charging current related to the first electronic device .

In accordance with fifth implementations of the present disclosure the method further includes charging the battery using the second charging current without a specified time delay when the second charging current is the charging current having the specified level and charging the battery using the second charging current after the specified time delay when the second charging current is the maximum charging current that may be allowed within the range of the permitted charging current related to the first electronic device .

In accordance with fifth implementations of the present disclosure the battery is inserted inside the third electronic device and is used as a power source of the third electronic device .

In accordance with sixth implementations of the present disclosure a method of operating a third electronic device having a charging function is provided. The method includes receiving at least one of a DC power and a first charging voltage or current from a first electronic device and a DC power and a second charging voltage or current from a second electronic device step generating at least one third charging voltage or current for charging an internal battery using the DC voltage step and charging a battery using the first charging voltage or current the second charging voltage or current and the at least one third charging voltage or current step .

In accordance with sixth implementations of the present disclosure the first electronic device is an adapter and the second electronic device is a dock for docking the third electronic device .

In accordance with sixth implementations of the present disclosure the method further includes regulating a level related to the at least one third charging voltage or current based at least in part on a level related to the first charging voltage or current and the second charging voltage or current.

In accordance with sixth implementations of the present disclosure a sum of the at least one of the first and the second charging current and the at least one third charging current does not exceed an allowable charging current related to the battery .

In accordance with sixth implementations of the present disclosure the first second or third charging current comprises a charging current having a specified level or a maximum charging current that may be allowed within a range of an allowable charging current related to the first electronic device . The method further includes charging the battery using the at least one third charging current without a specified time delay when the at least one third charging current is the charging current having the specified level and charging the battery using the at least one third charging current after the specified time delay when the at least one third charging current is the maximum charging current that may be allowed within the range of the permitted charging current related to the first electronic device .

In accordance with seventh implementations of the present disclosure an electronic device includes a battery configured to supply a first DC voltage or current a conversion unit configured to convert the first DC voltage or current to a second DC voltage or current a first charging unit configured to generate a first charging voltage or current using the second DC voltage or current and an output unit to provide the second DC voltage or current and the first DC voltage or current.

In accordance with seventh implementations of the present disclosure the electronic device includes a first connecting part to deliver the second DC voltage or current to the output unit and the first charging unit and a second connecting part to deliver the first charging voltage or the current to the output unit.

In accordance with seventh implementations of the present disclosure the first charging unit is configured to regulate a level related to the first charging voltage or current based at least in part on a level related to at least one second charging voltage or current from a second charging unit included inside an least one external device.

In accordance with seventh implementations of the present disclosure a sum of the first charging current and the at least one second charging current does not exceed an allowable charging current of the battery.

In accordance with seventh implementations of the present disclosure the first charging current comprises a charging current having a specified level or a maximum charging current that may be allowed within a range of an allowable charging current related to the electronic device.

In accordance with seventh implementations of the present disclosure the first charging unit is configured to charge the battery using the first charging current with a specified time delay when the first charging current is the charging current having the specified level and to charge the battery using the first charging current after the specified time delay when the first charging current is the maximum charging current that may be allowed within the range of the permitted charging current in the relation with the electronic device.

In accordance with seventh implementations of the present disclosure the external device is either electrically coupled directly to the electronic device or capable of docking another electronic device and electrically coupling the electronic device and the other electronic device.

While the present disclosure has been particularly shown and described with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

