---

title: Inhibitors of the farnesoid X receptor and uses in medicine
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09540415&OS=09540415&RS=09540415
owner: The Penn State Research Foundation
number: 09540415
owner_city: University Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140801
---
This patent application is a U.S. National Phase of International Patent Application No. PCT US2014 49460 filed Aug. 1 2014 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Applications No. 61 861 109 filed Aug. 1 2013 and 62 004 436 filed May 29 2014 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. ES002186 awarded by the National Institutes of Health and under the Hatch Act Project Nos. PEN04451 and PEN04607 awarded by the United States Department of Agriculture. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Obesity has reached epidemic proportions worldwide and is associated with chronic diseases such as type 2 diabetes mellitus cardiovascular diseases hepatosteatosis and cancer. Obesity develops as a result of energy intake that exceeds energy expenditure leading to a net storage of excess calories in the form of fat in adipose tissue. Obesity is metabolically linked with type 2 diabetes insulin resistance and hepatosteatosis the latter of which can lead to steatohepatitis hepatocarcinogenesis and liver failure. Thus a pharmaceutical approach that suppresses appetite blocks dietary fat absorption induces fat mobilization or increases metabolism would be ideal in the treatment of obesity and related metabolic disorders.

Farnesoid X Receptor FXR is an orphan nuclear receptor initially identified from a rat liver cDNA library Forman et al. 81 687 693 1995 that is most closely related to the insect ecdysone receptor. FXR is a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily of transcription factors that includes receptors for the steroid retinoid and thyroid hormones Mangelsdorf et al. 83 841 850 1995 . Northern blotting and in situ hybridization analysis showed that FXR is most abundantly expressed in the liver intestine kidney and adrenal B. M. Foinian et al. 81 687 693.1995 Seol et al. 9 72 85 1995 . FXR is a ligand activated nuclear receptor that binds to DNA as a heterodimer with the retinoic acid receptor RXR that is activated by the vitamin A derivative 9 cis retinoic acid. The FXR RXR heterodimer preferentially binds to response elements composed of two nuclear receptor half sites of the consensus AG G T TCA organized as an inverted repeat and separated by a single nucleotide IR 1 motif Forman et al. 81 687 693 1995 . An early report showed that rat FXR is activated by micromolar concentrations of farnesoids such as farnesol and juvenile hormone thus accounting for the original name Forman et al. 81 687 693 1995 . However these compounds were weak ligands and also failed to activate the corresponding mouse and human FXR leaving the nature of the endogenous FXR ligand in doubt. However several naturally occurring bile acids were found to bind to and activate FXR at physiological concentrations Makishima et al. 284 1362 1365 1999 Parks et al. 284 1365 1368 1999 Wang et al. 3 543 553 1999 PCT WO 00 37077 published Jun. 29 2000 . The bile acids that serve as FXR ligands include chenodeoxycholic acid CDCA deoxycholic acid DCA lithocholic acid LCA and the taurine and glycine conjugates of these bile acids.

Bile acids are cholesterol metabolites that are formed in the liver and secreted into the duodenum of the intestine where they have important roles in the solubilization and absorption of dietary lipids and vitamins. About 95 of bile acids are subsequently reabsorbed in the ileum and returned to the liver via the enterohepatic circulatory system. The conversion of cholesterol to bile acids in the liver is under feedback regulation and bile acids down regulate transcription of cytochrome P450 7A1 CYP7A1 which encodes the enzyme that catalyzes the rate limiting step in bile acid biosynthesis. FXR is involved in the repression of CYP7A1 expression by bile acids through an indirect mechanism involving the FXR target gene small heterodimer partner SHP and liver receptor homolog 1 Goodwin et al. 6 517 528 2000 reviewed in Matsubara et al. 368 17 29 2013 . In the ileum in an FXR dependent manner bile acids induce the expression of the intestinal bile acid binding protein IBABP a cytoplasmic protein which binds bile acids with high affinity and may be involved in their cellular uptake and trafficking. Two groups have now demonstrated that bile acids mediate their effects on IBABP expression through activation of FXR which binds to an IR 1 type response element that is conserved in the human rat and mouse IBABP gene promoters. Thus FXR is involved in both the stimulation IBABP and the repression CYP7A1 of target genes involved in bile acid and cholesterol homeostasis. FXR also induces expression of the bile salt export pump BSEP ABC11 that transports unconjugated and conjugated bile acids salts from hepatocyte into the bile reviewed in Matsubara et al. 368 17 29 2013 .

Tempol 4 hydroxy 2 2 6 6 tetramethylpiperidine 1 oxyl an antioxidant and a radiation protector was reported to prevent obesity in mice Mitchell et al. 34 93 102 2003 . A recent mass spectrometry based investigation revealed that tempol can affect fatty acid metabolism and the altered levels of suspected gut microbe generated metabolites provided initial clues that tempol may alter the microbiome Li et al. 12 1369 1376 2013 . Previous studies demonstrated that the alteration of the gut microbiome can affect the level of bile acids in liver heart and kidney Swann et al. 108 4523 4530 2011 . High fat diets can induce changes in the expression of genes in the small intestine that are controlled by nuclear receptors including FXR de Wit et al. 1 14 2008 . Thus there may be relationship between altered bile acids in the intestine and FXR signaling that can alter high fat diet induced obesity. While there are known natural and synthetic FXR agonist no therapeutic agents have been disclosed which antagonize FXR. Recent studies revealed that the secondary bile acid tauro muricholic acid T MCA can antagonize bile acid signaling in the intestine Sayin et al. 225 235 2013 Li et al. 4 2384 2013 . Trisubstituted pyrazol carboxamide analogs have been synthesized that are FXR antagonist but their effect on metabolism and physiology were not investigated Yu et al. 2919 2938 2014 .

Non alcoholic fatty liver disease NAFLD is characterized by massive ectopic triglyceride TG accumulation in the liver in the absence of other liver disease or significant alcohol consumption Wei et al. 2014 111 447 452 2014 . NAFLD is the most common liver disorder affecting 20 30 of the adult population and more than 80 of obese people in the world. NAFLD can develop into nonalcoholic steatohepatitis NASH fibrosis cirrhosis and even hepatocellular carcinoma Browning et al. 114 147 152 2004 . As a component of metabolic syndrome NAFLD is tightly associated with obesity insulin resistance type 2 diabetes and coronary heart disease and atherosclerosis Bhatia et al. 33 1190 1200 2012 . To date the underlying molecular mechanism of NAFLD development remains largely unknown and the identification of novel targets for NAFLD therapy is of high priority.

The foregoing shows that there is an unmet need for antagonists of the FXR receptor and a method of treating obese patients to induce weight loss insulin resistance and NAFLD.

The present invention provides inhibitors of the nuclear receptor farnesoid X receptor for treating or preventing obesity in mammals particularly humans. Compounds embodying aspects of the invention inhibit the farnesoid X receptor and affect high fat diet induced obesity through signal transduction mediated by the farnesoid X receptor. In accordance with the invention the present invention provides compositions comprising these compounds and methods of using these compounds as therapeutic agents in the treatment or prevention of obesity.

The invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound or salt embodying the principles of the invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

The invention further provides a method of inhibiting a farnesoid X receptor in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a compound embodying the principles of the invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

The invention additionally provides a method for treating or preventing obesity in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof a compound embodying the principles of the invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

The invention also provides a method for treating or preventing obesity insulin resistance and NAFLD in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal a compound embodying the principles of the invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Desirably the compounds inhibit the farnesoid X receptor in the intestine and affects obesity insulin resistance and NAFLD through signal transduction mediated only by the intestinal farnesoid X receptor and not by the liver farnesoid X receptor. Preferably the compounds have minimal systemic bioavailability so that the compounds do not inhibit the liver farnesoid X receptor which minimizes any systemic toxicity.

with the proviso that when the compound is of formula I m is 1 n is 2 X is C O Y is NH Rand Rare both hydrogen and Ris hydrogen then Z is not SOH.

In accordance with certain embodiments when the compound is of formula I m is 1 X is C O Y is NH Rand Rare both hydrogen Ris hydrogen and n is 1 then Z is not COOH.

Ris selected from glycine alanine alanine phenylalanine tyrosine methionine tryptophan leucine isoleucine methyl aspartate aspartic acid methyl glutamate glutamic acid methyl proline proline valine 2 fluoro alanine 2 bromoalanine 2 chloroalanine 2 fluoroalanine 2 iodoalanine 3 bromoalanine 3 chloroalanine 3 fluoroalanine 3 iodoalanine 4 bromophenylalanine 4 chlorophenylalanine 4 fluorophenylalanine taurine and 4 iodophenylalanine 

with the provisos that when Ris hydrogen Rand Rare both hydroxyl R R R R and Rare all hydrogen then Ris not glycine or taurine and 

Referring now to terminology used generically herein the term alkyl means a straight chain or branched alkyl substituent containing from for example 1 to about 6 carbon atoms preferably from 1 to about 4 carbon atoms more preferably from 1 to 2 carbon atoms. Examples of such substituents include methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl n butyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl pentyl isoamyl hexyl and the like.

The term aryl refers to an unsubstituted or substituted aromatic carbocyclic substituent as commonly understood in the art and the term C Caryl includes phenyl and naphthyl. It is understood that the term aryl applies to cyclic substituents that are planar and comprise 4n 2 electrons according to H ckel s Rule.

In any of the above embodiments the C 20 carbon atom of the compound or salt of Formula I or II can have an R configuration an S configuration or can be a mixture of R and S isomers.

In any of the above embodiments when the stereochemistry at a chiral carbon atom is not specified the chiral carbon atom can have an R configuration an S configuration or can be a mixture of R and S isomers.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt is intended to include nontoxic salts synthesized from the parent compound which contains a basic or acidic moiety by conventional chemical methods. Generally such salts can be prepared by reacting the free acid or base forms of these compounds with a stoichiometric amount of the appropriate base or acid in water or in an organic solvent or in a mixture of the two. Generally nonaqueous media such as ether ethyl acetate ethanol isopropanol or acetonitrile are preferred. Lists of suitable salts are found in 18th ed. Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 1990 p. 1445 and 66 2 19 1977 .

Suitable bases include inorganic bases such as alkali and alkaline earth metal bases e.g. those containing metallic cations such as sodium potassium magnesium calcium and the like. Non limiting examples of suitable bases include sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide sodium carbonate and potassium carbonate. Suitable acids include inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid hydroiodic acid sulfuric acid phosphoric acid and the like and organic acids such as p toluenesulfonic methanesulfonic acid benzenesulfonic acid oxalic acid p bromophenylsulfonic acid carbonic acid succinic acid citric acid benzoic acid acetic acid maleic acid tartaric acid fatty acids long chain fatty acids and the like. Preferred pharmaceutically acceptable salts of inventive compounds having an acidic moiety include sodium and potassium salts. Preferred pharmaceutically acceptable salts of inventive compounds having a basic moiety e.g. a dimethylaminoalkyl group include hydrochloride and hydrobromide salts. The compounds of the present invention containing an acidic or basic moiety are useful in the form of the free base or acid or in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

It should be recognized that the particular counterion forming a part of any salt of this invention is usually not of a critical nature so long as the salt as a whole is pharmacologically acceptable and as long as the counterion does not contribute undesired qualities to the salt as a whole.

It is further understood that the above compounds and salts may form solvates or exist in a substantially uncomplexed form such as the anhydrous form. As used herein the term solvate refers to a molecular complex wherein the solvent molecule such as the crystallizing solvent is incorporated into the crystal lattice. When the solvent incorporated in the solvate is water the molecular complex is called a hydrate. Pharmaceutically acceptable solvates include hydrates alcoholates such as methanolates and ethanolates acetonitrilates and the like. These compounds can also exist in polymorphic forms.

The present invention is further directed to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and at least one compound or salt described herein.

It is preferred that the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier be one that is chemically inert to the active compounds and one that has no detrimental side effects or toxicity under the conditions of use.

The choice of carrier will be determined in part by the particular compound of the present invention chosen as well as by the particular method used to administer the composition. Accordingly there is a wide variety of suitable formulations of the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention. In certain embodiments the formulation is suitable for administration to the alimentary tract and in particular to the small intestine.

Formulations suitable for oral administration can consist of a liquid solutions such as a therapeutically effective amount of the inventive compound dissolved in diluents such as water saline or orange juice b capsules sachets tablets lozenges and troches each containing a predetermined amount of the active ingredient as solids or granules c powders d suspensions in an appropriate liquid and e suitable emulsions. Liquid formulations may include diluents such as water and alcohols for example ethanol benzyl alcohol and the polyethylene alcohols either with or without the addition of a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant suspending agent or emulsifying agent. Capsule forms can be of the ordinary hard or soft shelled gelatin type containing for example surfactants lubricants and inert fillers such as lactose sucrose calcium phosphate and corn starch. Tablet forms can include one or more of lactose sucrose mannitol corn starch potato starch alginic acid microcrystalline cellulose acacia gelatin guar gum colloidal silicon dioxide croscannellose sodium talc magnesium stearate calcium stearate zinc stearate stearic acid and other excipients colorants diluents buffering agents disintegrating agents moistening agents preservatives flavoring agents and pharmacologically compatible excipients. Lozenge forms can comprise the active ingredient in a flavor usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth as well as pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert base such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia emulsions gels and the like containing in addition to the active ingredient such excipients as are known in the art.

In some embodiments the formulation can be suitable to prolonging the amount of time that the compound of the present invention is contacted with the alimentary tract of the mammal and in particular with the small intestine of the mammal. In this regard various formulations such as extended release formulation and formulations designed to prolong the amount of time that the compound is retained in the stomach before release into the small intestine can be utilized. A number of suitable formulations are presented in Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy Gennaro A. R. ed. pp. 858 929 Lippincott Williams and Wilkins 2000 .

In some embodiments the compound or salt of the present invention can be administered in the form of a food additive that is in admixture with foodstuffs or beverages. For use as a food additive the compound or salt can be mixed with a foodstuff or beverage per se or can be formulated as a composition comprising one or more suitable excipients prior to mixing with a foodstuff or beverage. The foodstuff or beverage can be any suitable foodstuff or beverage. In some embodiments the foodstuff or beverage has a relatively high fat content.

It will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that in addition to the aforedescribed pharmaceutical compositions the compound or salt of the present invention may be formulated as inclusion complexes such as cyclodextrin inclusion complexes or liposomes. Liposomes serve to target the compounds to a particular tissue such as lymphoid tissue or cancerous hepatic cells. Liposomes can also be used to increase the half life of the inventive compound. Liposomes useful in the present invention include emulsions foams micelles insoluble monolayers liquid crystals phospholipid dispersions lamellar layers and the like. In these preparations the active agent to be delivered is incorporated as part of a liposome alone or in conjunction with a suitable chemotherapeutic agent. Thus liposomes filled with a desired inventive compound or salt thereof can be directed to the site of a specific tissue type hepatic cells for example where the liposomes then deliver the selected compositions. Liposomes for use in the invention are formed from standard vesicle forming lipids which generally include neutral and negatively charged phospholipids and a sterol such as cholesterol. The selection of lipids is generally guided by consideration of for example liposome size and stability of the liposomes in the blood stream. A variety of methods are available for preparing liposomes as described in for example Szoka et al. 9 467 1980 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 235 871 4 501 728 4 837 028 and 5 019 369. For targeting to the cells of a particular tissue type a ligand to be incorporated into the liposome can include for example antibodies or fragments thereof specific for cell surface determinants of the targeted tissue type. A liposome suspension containing a compound or salt of the present invention may be administered intravenously locally topically etc. in a dose that varies according to the mode of administration the agent being delivered and the stage of disease being treated.

In certain embodiments the pharmaceutical composition can be administered parenterally e.g. intravenously subcutaneously intradermally or intramuscularly. Thus the invention provides compositions for parenteral administration that comprise a solution or suspension of the inventive compound or salt dissolved or suspended in an acceptable carrier suitable for parenteral administration including aqueous and non aqueous isotonic sterile injection solutions. Many such compositions are known in the art.

In accordance with an embodiment the invention provides a method of inhibiting a farnesoid X receptor in a mammal in need thereof which method comprises administering to the mammal an effective amount of a compound of the invention.

The term mammal includes but is not limited to the order Rodentia such as mice and the order Logomorpha such as rabbits. It is preferred that the mammals are from the order Carnivora including Felines cats and Canines dogs . It is more preferred that the mammals are from the order Artiodactyla including Bovines cows and Swines pigs or of the order Perssodactyla including Equines horses . It is most preferred that the mammals are of the order Primates Ceboids or Simioids monkeys or of the order Anthropoids humans and apes . An especially preferred mammal is the human.

In certain embodiments the FXR mediated disease or condition is cardiovascular disease atherosclerosis arteriosclerosis hypercholesteremia or hyperlipidemiachronic liver disease gastrointestinal disease renal disease cardiovascular disease metabolic disease cancer i.e. colorectal cancer or neurological indications such as stroke. In certain embodiments the chronic liver disease is primary biliary cirrhosis PBC cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis CTX primary sclerosing cholangitis PSC drug induced cholestasis intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy parenteral nutrition associated cholestasis PNAC bacterial overgrowth or sepsis associated cholestasis autoimmune hepatitis chronic viral hepatitis alcoholic liver disease nonalcoholic fatty liver disease NAFLD nonalcoholic steatohepatitis NASH liver transplant associated graft versus host disease living donor transplant liver regeneration congenital hepatic fibrosis choledocholithiasis granulomatous liver disease intra or extrahepatic malignancy Sjogren s syndrome Sarcoidosis Wilson s disease Gaucher s disease hemochromatosis or alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency. In certain embodiments the gastrointestinal disease is inflammatory bowel disease IBD including Crohn s disease and ulcerative colitis irritable bowel syndrome IBS bacterial overgrowth malabsorption post radiation colitis or microscopic colitis. In certain embodiments the renal disease is diabetic nephropathy focal segmental glomerulosclerosis FSGS hypertensive nephrosclerosis chronic glomerulonephritis chronic transplant glomerulopathy chronic interstitial nephritis or polycystic kidney disease. In certain embodiments the cardiovascular disease is atherosclerosis arteriosclerosis dyslipidemia hypercholesterolemia or hypertriglyceridemia.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment the invention provides a method of treating or preventing obesity in a mammal in need thereof comprising administering to the mammal an effective amount of a compound or salt of the invention.

As used herein obesity can be considered as a condition in which excess body fat may put a person at health risk see Barlow and Dietz 102 E29 1998 National Institutes of Health 6 suppl. 2 51S 209S 1998 . Excess body fat is a result of an imbalance of energy intake and energy expenditure. In one embodiment in humans the Body Mass Index BMI is used to assess obesity. In one embodiment a BMI of 25.0 kg mto 29.9 kg mis overweight also called grade I obesity while a BMI of 30 kg mis truly obese also called grade II obesity .

In another embodiment in humans waist circumference is used to assess obesity. In this embodiment in men a waist circumference of 102 cm or more is considered obese while in women a waist circumference of 89 cm or more is considered obese. Strong evidence shows that obesity affects both the morbidity and mortality of individuals. For example an obese individual is at increased risk for heart disease non insulin dependent type 2 diabetes hypertension stroke cancer e.g. endometrial breast prostate and colon cancer dyslipidemia gall bladder disease sleep apnea reduced fertility and osteoarthritis amongst others see Lyznicki et al. 63 2185 2001 .

The dose administered to a mammal particularly a human in accordance with the present invention should be sufficient to effect the desired response. Such responses include reversal or prevention of the undesirable effects of the disease or disorder mediated by the farnesoid X receptor expressed in the intestine for which treatment is desired or to elicit the desired benefit. In certain embodiments the disorder is non alcoholic fatty liver disease obesity and type 2 diabetes insulin resistance . One skilled in the art will recognize that dosage will depend upon a variety of factors including the age condition and body weight of the human as well as the extent of the non alcoholic fatty liver disease in the human. The size of the dose will also be determined by the route timing and frequency of administration as well as the existence nature and extent of any adverse side effects that might accompany the administration of a particular compound and the desired physiological effect. It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that successful treatment of non alcoholic fatty liver disease obesity type 2 diabetes insulin resistance or other disease or disorder may require prolonged treatment involving multiple administrations.

In this regard treatment of NAFLD via inhibition of the intestinal farnesoid X receptor can be regarded as a reduction in the clinical manifestations of hepatic steatosis in a mammal. While in many cases NAFLD does not cause signs or symptoms NAFLD may cause fatigue pain particularly in the upper right abdomen and weight loss. In some instances NAFLD may progress to nonalcoholic steatohepatitis an inflammation in the liver. NAFLD may progress to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease associated cirrhosis which is a scarring of the liver accompanied by markedly decreased liver function. Over time scarring can become so severe that the liver no longer functions adequately.

NAFLD can be assessed for example by ultrasound computed tomography magnetic resonance studies or by liver biopsy. In certain embodiments the mammal is consuming a high fat diet. A high fat diet can be considered as one that provides more than 30 of energy as fat see for example Churchill Livingstone s Dictionary of Sport and Exercise Science and Medicine S. Jennett Elsevier Limited 2008 . In other embodiments the invention provides a method of preventing non alcoholic fatty liver disease in a mammal. Preventing non alcoholic fatty liver disease can be regarded as reducing an expected manifestation of hepatic steatosis in a mammal that is subjected to a dietary change from a low fat or intermediate fat diet to a high fat diet.

Currently no standard treatment for NAFLD exists. Physicians typically treat the risk factors that contribute to the disease. For example physicians assist afflicted patients with weight loss programs and choice of a healthy diet control of diabetes and lowering of cholesterol.

In this regard treatment of obesity via inhibition of the farnesoid X receptor can be regarded as a reduction in the rate of weight gain in a mammal. In certain embodiments the mammal is consuming a high fat diet. A high fat diet can be consider as one which provides more than 30 of energy as fat see for example Churchill Livingstone s Dictionary of Sport and Exercise Science and Medicine S. Jennett Elsevier Limited 2008 . In other embodiments the invention provides a method of preventing obesity in a mammal. Preventing obesity can be regarded as reducing an expected weight gain in a normal weight mammal that is subjected to a dietary change from a low fat or intermediate fat diet to a high fat diet.

In this regard treatment of diabetes via inhibition of the farnesoid X receptor can be regarded as a reduction of insulin resistance in a patient afflicted therewith. Insulin resistance can result in hyperglycemia and a reduction in insulin resistance can result in a lowering of blood glucose levels. Non limiting examples of symptoms that be treated via inhibition of the farnesoid X receptor include brain fogginess and inability to focus high blood sugar intestinal bloating sleepiness weight gain fat storage difficulty losing weight increased blood triglyceride levels increased blood pressure increased pro inflammatory cytokines associated with cardiovascular disease depression acanthosis nigricans and increased hunger.

The dose administered to a mammal particularly a human in accordance with the present invention should be sufficient to effect the desired response. Such responses include reversal or prevention of the bad effects of the disease or disorder mediated by the farnesoid X receptor for which treatment is desired or to elicit the desired benefit. In certain embodiments the disorder is obesity. One skilled in the art will recognize that dosage will depend upon a variety of factors including the age condition and body weight of the human as well as the extent of the obesity in the human. The size of the dose will also be determined by the route timing and frequency of administration as well as the existence nature and extent of any adverse side effects that might accompany the administration of a particular compound and the desired physiological effect. It will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that successful treatment of obesity or other disease or disorder may require prolonged treatment involving multiple administrations.

In this regard treatment of obesity via inhibition of the farnesoid X receptor can be regarded as a reduction in the rate of weight gain in a mammal. In certain embodiments the mammal is consuming a high fat diet. A high fat diet can be consider as one which provides more than 30 of energy as fat see for example Churchill Livingstone s Dictionary of Sport and Exercise Science and Medicine S. Jennett Elsevier Limited 2008 . In other embodiments the invention provides a method of preventing obesity in a mammal. Preventing obesity can be regarded as reducing an expected weight gain in a normal weight mammal that is subjected to a dietary change from a low fat or intermediate fat diet to a high fat diet.

Suitable doses and dosage regimens can be determined by conventional range finding techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Generally treatment is initiated with smaller dosages that are less than the optimum dose of the compound. Thereafter the dosage is increased by small increments until the optimum effect under the circumstances is reached. The present inventive method typically will involve the administration of about 0.1 to about 300 mg e.g. about 0.1 to about 150 mg about 0.1 to about 100 mg or about 0.1 to about 50 mg of one or more of the compounds described above per kg body weight of the mammal.

The therapeutically effective amount of the compound or compounds administered can vary depending upon the desired effects and the factors noted above. Typically dosages will be between 0.01 mg kg and 250 mg kg of the subject s body weight and more typically between about 0.05 mg kg and 100 mg kg such as from about 0.2 to about 80 mg kg from about 5 to about 40 mg kg or from about 10 to about 30 mg kg of the subject s body weight. Thus unit dosage forms can be formulated based upon the suitable ranges recited above and the subject s body weight. The term unit dosage form as used herein refers to a physically discrete unit of therapeutic agent appropriate for the subject to be treated.

Alternatively dosages are calculated based on body surface area and from about 1 mg mto about 200 mg m such as from about 5 mg mto about 100 mg mwill be administered to the subject per day. In particular embodiments administration of the therapeutically effective amount of the compound or compounds involves administering to the subject from about 5 mg mto about 50 mg m such as from about 10 mg mto about 40 mg mper day. It is currently believed that a single dosage of the compound or compounds is suitable however a therapeutically effective dosage can be supplied over an extended period of time or in multiple doses per day. Thus unit dosage forms also can be calculated using a subject s body surface area based on the suitable ranges recited above and the desired dosing schedule.

As demonstrated herein farnesoid X receptor is implicated in the development of obesity. Thus administration of inhibitors of farnesoid X receptor is expected to treat or prevent the development of obesity particularly in a mammal consuming a high fat diet.

Here it has also been shown that intestinal farnesoid X receptor plays an essential role in the progression of NAFLD. Inhibition of intestinal farnesoid X receptor in embodiments of the invention has been shown to ameliorate NAFLD induced by a high fat diet.

Through studies on tempol and antibiotics that remodel and kill gut bacteria respectively a novel pathway was uncovered in which these agents alter the population of the gut microbiota resulting in loss of bacteria that express the enzyme bile salt hydrolase BSH . Lower BSH results in increased levels of conjugated bile acids in the intestine such as T MCA. T MCA in turn is an antagonist of intestinal FXR. Lower FXR signaling in the intestine results in decreased obesity insulin resistance and NAFLD in mice fed a high fat diet and in genetically obese mice. These studies led to the hypothesis that inhibiting FXR would be a promising approach for treating patients with obesity insulin resistance and NAFLD. Oral administration of a new chemical entity glycine muricholic acid Gly MCA decreases obesity insulin resistance and NAFLD in high fat diet treated mice and in genetically obese mice. It is proposed that any compound that is orally administered and retained in the intestine and that inhibits intestinal FXR and has no effect on FXR expressed in liver would have utility in the treatment of patients with obesity insulin resistance and NAFLD.

Compounds of formula 1 wherein W is OR Ris hydrogen Rand Rare hydrogen X is C O m is 1 and Y is NH such as Muricholic acid 9 and conjugates thereof such as the representative embodiments of tauro Muricholic acid 10 and glycine Muricholic acid 16 can be prepared as illustrated in the scheme set forth in . Esterification of the dihydroxy acid 1 with for example methanol under acid catalysis provides ester 2. Protection of the A ring hydroxyl group with ethyl chloroformate provides carbonate 3. Oxidation of the 7 hydroxyl group with for example potassium chromate gives ketone 4. Bromination with for example bromine in HBr gives bromo ketone 5. Reduction of the ketone with for example gives bromo alcohol 6. Reductive elimination of bromine using for example zinc metal provides olefin 7. Cis dihydroxylation with for example osmium tetroxide gives cis diol 8. Hydrolysis of both esters provides muricholic acid 9. muricholic acid 9 can be conjugated with taurine using a suitable coupling agent provides tauro muricholic acid 10. Glycine can be substituted for taurine to provide the glycine conjugate of muricholic acid 16 . 2 aminoethylphosphonic acid can be substituted for taurine to provide the phosphonic acid analog of tauro muricholic acid. The chemistry is as described in Iida T. et al. 16 863 5 1981 Iida T. et al. 30 1267 1279 1989 and Tserng K Y. et al. 18 404 407 1977 .

Compounds of formula I wherein X is CH wherein m is 2 can be prepared for example by the route illustrated in starting with the illustrative embodiment of muricholic acid 9. The carboxylic acid is protected via acid catalyzed esterification to provide compound 11. The hydroxyl groups in compound 11 can be protected using any suitable protecting group such as benzyl Bzl to give compound 12. Reduction of the carboxyl group using any suitable reducing agent for example lithium aluminum hydride provides alcohol 13. Conversion of the hydroxyl group to a suitable leaving group for example bromo using any suitable reagents such as triphenylphosphine and carbon tetrabromide gives compound 14. Displacement of the leaving group in 13 using for example a nucleophilic reagent of the formula HYCHCHSOH wherein Y is NH O S or Se followed by deprotection gives taurine conjugated analog 15.

 iii protecting the hydroxyl groups in the compound of formula V to provide a compound of formula VI 

 v converting the compound of formula VII to a compound of formula VIII wherein LG is a leaving group 

 vi treating the compound of formula VIII with a compound of the formula HY CH Z wherein Y is NH S O or Se to provide a compound of formula IX 

 iii protecting the hydroxyl groups in the compound of formula XI to provide a compound of formula XII 

 iv treating the compound of formula XII with a reducing agent to provide a compound of formula XIII 

 v converting the compound of formula XIII to a compound of formula XIV wherein LG is a leaving group 

 vi treating the compound of formula XIV with a compound of the formula HY CH Z wherein Y is NH S O or Se to provide a compound of formula XV 

The following examples further illustrate the invention but of course should not be construed as in any way limiting its scope.

The PGL4 Shp TK firefly luciferase construct and human Fxr expression plasmid were provided by Grace L. Guo of Rutgers University. The human Asbt expression plasmid was provided by Paul A. Dawson of Wake Forest University School of Medicine. The plasmids were transfected into cells using X TREMEGENE HP DNA Transfection Reagent Roche . The cells were lysed and luciferase activities measured with a DUAL LUCIFERASE assay kit Promega . Firefly luciferase activity was normalized to Renilla luciferase activity.

ATP detection was performed using the following protocol. For extraction of ATP 10 mg of ileum mucosa were homogenized with 1.0 mL of ice cold TE saturated phenol Sigma Aldrich . A mixture of 200 L of chloroform and 150 L of deionized water were added and the homogenate thoroughly shaken for 20 s and centrifuged at 10 000 g for 5 min at 4 C. The aliquot from the supernatant was diluted 100 fold with deionized water and 10 L of the diluted extract was measured by ATP determination kit Invitrogen Corp. Chida et al. 727 8 12 2012 .

Tempol bacitracin neomycin and streptomycin were purchased from Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. . Bile acids were ordered from Steraloids Inc. Newport R.I. and Sigma St. Louis Mo. and taurocholic acid d5 sodium salt was from Toronto Research Chemicals Inc. Toronto Ontario . Ceramides were obtained from Avanti Polar Lipids. HFD 60 kcal fat were purchased from Bio Serv Frenchtown N.J. . T MCA and Gly MCA were synthesized as according to the scheme shown in and described in Example 1. All solvents and organic reagents were of the highest grade available.

High fat diet HFD 60 kcal consisting of fat was purchased from Bioserv. Inc. Intestine specific Fxr null Fxr mice and wild type Fxr mice had a C57BL 6N genetic background. Fxrand Fxr Kim et al. 48 2664 2672 2007 mice were backcrossed with C57BL 6N mice for over 10 generations. For the antibiotic the combination of bacitracin neomycin and streptomycin study male C57BL 6N mice from 6 weeks of age were fed a high fat diet HFD and administered 0.1 w v of each compound the combination of bacitracin neomycin and streptomycin in the drinking water. For the tempol study male C57BL 6N mice from 6 weeks of age were fed a HFD and administered 0.064 w v tempol in the drinking water. For T MCA in vivo male C57BL 6N mice from 6 weeks of age were fed a HFD and treated with the antibiotics 0.1 of each compound of bacitracin neomycin and streptomycin combination for 3 days. Vehicle saline TCA 400 mg kg body weight dissolved in saline or a combination of TCA and T MCA 400 mg kg body weight of each compound dissolved in saline were orally administered to the mice and followed by a second dose 12 h later. The mice were killed 2 h later for tissue collection. For the Gly MCA study Gly MCA was custom synthesized. Bacon flavored dough pills were produced as described Walker et al. 260 65 69 2012 for oral administration of Gly MCA 0.25 mg Gly MCA pill dose of 10 mg kg . Mice were trained to eat the dough pills prior to the study. For the prevention of obesity insulin resistance and NAFLD male wild type WT C57BL 6N mice 6 to 8 weeks old were fed a high fat diet Bio Serv Frenchtown N.J. 60 kcal fat from the age of 6 weeks and were orally administered with vehicle control pills or Gly MCA 0.25 mg pill day dose 10 mg kg . C57BL 6N mice fed a high fat diet for 12 weeks were administered 0.25 mg Gly MCA pill dose of 5 mg kg . Leptin deficient db db mice 6 to 8 weeks old fed a chow diet were administered Gly MCA 0.25 mg pill day 10 mg kg . Mice were housed individually in their home cages. Cumulative food intake and TEEwere measured for 1 week in vehicle and Gly MCA treated mice from 6 to 7 weeks of HFD. TEEwas measured as previously described Ravussin et al. 37 399 403 2013 .

All animal studies were performed in accordance with the Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources guidelines and approved by the NCI Animal Care and Use Committee.

Primary hepatocytes from 6 week old C57BL 6N mice were obtained by collagenase 1 Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. perfusion. The cells were purified by 45 Percoll Sigma St. Louis Mo. density centrifugation and cultured in DMEM Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. with 10 fetal bovine serum and 1 Insulin Transferrin Selenium Ethanolamine ITS X Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. . The viability of hepatocytes was determined using trypan blue dye exclusion and those with higher than 85 viability were used. The medium was changed to DMEM with 1 fetal bovine serum after culturing for 4 hours. After starvation for 4 hours the cells were exposed to ceramide. At the prescribed time points cells were harvested and subjected to qPCR analysis and TG content detection.

The mucosa of intestine was gently scraped and liver was taken and both were flash frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at 80 C. until RNA was prepared. RNA was extracted from frozen intestine and liver using TRIzol reagent Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. . cDNA was synthesized from 1 g total RNA using Superscript II reverse transcriptase Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. . qPCR primers were designed with qPrimerDepot. Measured mRNA levels were normalized to those of 18S ribosomal RNA and expressed as fold change relative to those of control group.

Liver whole cell or nuclear extracts were prepared. Membranes were incubated with antibodies against FXR Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc. Santa Cruz Calif. SREBP1 BD Biosciences San Jose Calif. and CIDEA Abcam Cambridge Mass. . The signals obtained were normalized to ACTIN Abcam for whole cell extract and LAMIN A C Santa Cruz for nuclear extracts.

The bacteria in feces and cecum content were extracted using PowerSoil DNA Isolation Kit Mo Bio laboratory Inc. Carlsbad Calif. . The PCR products approximately 1000 bps were purified using the Agencourt AMPure technology Beckman Coulter Brea Calif. as described in 454 Technical Bulletin 2011 002 Short Fragment Removal Procedure. After purification the products were quantified by both Qubit Lifetech Carlsbad Calif. and qPCR using the KAPA Biosystems Library Quantification Kit KapaBiosystems Woburn Mass. pooled based on molar amounts run on a 1 agarose gel and extracted. After purification with a QIAquick PCR Purification kit Qiagen Valencia Calif. the quality and quantity were assessed using a DNA 7500LabChip on the Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer Agilent Technologies Santa Clara Calif. and Qubit quantification. The sequencing was performed using a quarter PTP plate on a 454 Life Sciences Genome Sequencer FLX Roche Diagnostics Indianapolis Ind. . 16S rRNA gene sequencing analysis was performed as previously described Lozupone and Knight 71 8228 8235 2005 . Weighted UniFrac analysis to assess changes in the bacterial abundance was performed on the Galaxy web based platform Blankenberg et al. 26 1783 1785 2010 Goecks et al. 11 126 2010 Giardine et al. 15 1451 1455 2005 .

After quality filtering and deduplication each sample contained on average 11 thousand reads. The Mothur software package was used to preprocess the sequencing data and the RDP multi classifier to assign each sequence to a taxonomic rank. Preprocessing consisted of filtering reads for an average quality of 20 removing duplicated sequences and splitting into samples by barcodes while allowing for one mismatch in the barcode. To account for differences in total reads per sample classifications were converted to percent of total reads. This approach then permitted accurate comparisons within and between groups.

Lipidomics analysis For serum lipidomics analysis 25 l serum were extracted by 4 fold cold chloroform methanol 2 1 solution containing 2 M LPC 17 0 PC 17 0 SM 17 0 and CER 17 0 Avanti Polar Lipids Alabaster Ala. as internal standards. The samples were vortexed for 30 s and then allowed to stand for 5 min at room temperature. The mixture was centrifuged at 13 000 rpm for 5 min and then the lower organic phase was collected and evaporated at room temperature under vacuum. The residue was dissolved in chloroform methanol 1 1 followed by diluting with isopropanol acetonitrile HO 2 1 1 containing 2 M PC 17 0 prior to UPLC MS analysis. For tissue lipidomics analysis about 50 mg of accurately weighted tissues were homogenized with 700 L methanol HO 4 3 solution and then extracted using 800 L chloroform containing 2 M LPC 17 0 SM 17 0 and CER 17 0 as internal standards. The homogenate was incubated at 37 C. for 20 min followed by centrifuged for 20 min at 13 000 rpm. The lower organic phase was transferred to a new tube and dried under vacuum. The residue was suspended with 100 L chloroform methanol 1 1 solution and then diluted with isopropanol acetonitrile HO 2 1 1 solution containing 2 M PC 17 0 before injection. For lipidomics discovery samples were analyzed by UPLC ESI QTOF MS using a Water Acquity CSH 1.7 um C18 column 2.1 100 mm under the following conditions UPLC A acetonitrile water 60 40 B isopropanol acetonitrile 90 10 . Both A and B contained 10 mM Ammonium acetate and 0.1 formic acid. Gradient initial 60 A to 57 A at 2 min to 50 A at 2.1 min to 46 A at 12 min to 30 A at 12.1 min to 1 A at 18 min before returning to initial conditions at 18.5 min with equilibration for 2 additional minutes an indicates ballistic gradient . Flow rate was 0.4 ml min. Column temperature was maintained at 55 C. MS same conditions as above except run time was 18 min.

Global metabolomics analysis urine samples were prepared by adding 20 L of urine to 180 L 50 aqueous acetonitrile 50 50 water acetonitrile . Samples were vortexed for 5 min and centrifuged at 18000 g for 20 min at 4 C. to remove particulates and precipitated protein. The supernatant was transferred to an autosampler vial for analysis. 50 mg tissue samples were homogenized in 500 mL 50 aqueous acetonitrile containing 5 M of chlorpropamide internal standard . The samples were vortexed and centrifuged at 13 000 rpm for 20 min at 4 C. to remove particulates and precipitate protein. The supernatant was transferred to an autosampler vial for analysis. For metabolomics discovery a 5 l aliquot of supernatant samples was injected into the UPLC ESI QTOFMS system Waters Milford Mass. with a Waters Acquity BEH 1.7 m C18 2.1 50 mm column. The gradient mobile phase comprises 0.1 formic acid in water A and 0.1 formic acid in acetonitrile B . The gradient was maintained at initial 95 A for 0.5 min to 40 A at 4 min and then to 1 A at 8 min. The column was flushed for 1 min then equilibrated at initial conditions for 1.5 min. Flow rate was 0.5 ml min. Column temperature was maintained at 60 C. Waters Synapt HDMS Q TOF was operated in both positive and negative modes scanning 50 850 amu at a rate of 0.3 scans sec. The following instrument conditions were used capillary 3 kV source temperature 120 C. sampling cove 30V desolvation gas flow 850 L h at 400 C. Biomarker identification and quantitation Biomarkers were screened by analyzing ions in the loading scatter plot and metabolomics databases METLIN and Madison Metabolomics Consortium Database were searched to find potential candidates. To confirm the identities of the putative markers the authentic standards were compared with the metabolites based on MS MS fragmentation pattern and retention time. Concentrations of the metabolites were determined by multiple reaction monitoring mass spectrometry based on standard curves using authentic standards.

Chromatographic and spectral data were deconvoluted by MarkerLynx software Waters . A multivariate data matrix containing information on sample identity ion identity retention time and m z and ion abundance was generated through centroiding deisotoping filtering peak recognition and integration. The intensity of each ion was calculated by normalizing the single ion counts vs. the total ion counts in the whole chromatogram. The data matrix was further exported into SIMCA P software Umetrics Kinnelon N.J. and transformed by mean centering and pareto scaling a technique that increases the importance of low abundance ions without significant amplification of noise. Statistical models including principal components analysis PCA partial least squares discriminant analysis PLS DA and orthogonal projections to latent structures discriminant analysis OPLS DA were established to represent the major latent variables in the data matrix.

Methanol KHPO NaHPO all in analytical grade sodium 3 trimethylsilyl 2 2 3 3 d4 propionate TSP d4 and DO 99.9 in D were purchased from Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. . Phosphate buffer 0.1 M KHPO NaHPOand PH 7.4 was prepared with KHPO and NaHPOfor their good solubility and low temperature stability. Liver samples 50 mg were extracted three times with 0.6 mL 600 L of precooled methanol water mixture 2 1 v v using the PreCellys Tissue Homogenizer Bertin Technologies Rockville Md. . After centrifugation at 11180 g for 10 min at 4 C. the combined supernatants were dried. Each of the aqueous extracts was separately reconstituted into 600 L phosphate buffer containing 50 DO and 0.005 TSP d4 chemical shift reference . Following centrifugation 550 L of each extract was transferred into a 5 mm NMR tube. Cecal content samples were directly extracted using an optimized procedure described previously Wu et al. 2010 . Briefly samples 50 mg were mixed with 600 L precooled phosphate buffer vortexed for 30 s and subjected to three consecutive freeze thaws followed by homogenization using the Precellys Tissue Homogenizer. After centrifugation 11 180 g 4 C. for 10 min the supernatants 550 L were transferred into 5 mm NMR tubes for NMR analysis.

All free induction decays FID were multiplied by an exponential function with a 1 Hz line broadening factor prior to Fourier transformation. H NMR spectra were corrected manually for phase and baseline distortions and spectral region 0.5 9.5 was integrated into regions with equal width of 0.004 ppm 2.4 Hz using AMIX software package V3.8 Bruker Biospin Germany . Region 4.45 5.20 was discarded by imperfect water saturation. Regions 1.15 1.23 and 3.62 3.69 were also removed for ethanol contaminations in the cecal contents during mice dissection process. Each bucketed region was then normalized to the total sum of the spectral integrals to compensate for the overall concentration differences prior to statistical data analysis.

Multivariate data analysis was carried out with SIMCAP software version 13.0 Umetrics Sweden . Principal Component Analysis PCA was initially carried out on the NMR data to generate an overview and to assess data quality. Orthogonal projection to latent structures with discriminant analysis OPLS DA was subsequently conducted on the NMR data. The OPLS DA models were validated using a 7 fold cross validation method and the quality of the model was described by the parameters R2X and Q2 values. To facilitate interpretation of the results back transformation Cloarec et al. 77 517 526 2005 of the loadings generated from the OPLS DA was performed prior to generating the loadings plots which were color coded with the Pearson linear correlation coefficients of variables or metabolites using an in house developed script for MATLAB The Mathworks Inc. Natwick Mass. . In this study a cutoff value of r 0.811 r 0.755 and r

Fecal proteins were prepared from feces samples 0.5 g in pH 7.4 phosphate buffered saline PBS 5.0 mL using sonication. Bile salt hydrolase BSH activity was measured based on the generation of CDCA from TCDCA in the feces. Briefly incubation was carried out in 3 mM sodium acetate buffer pH 5.2 containing 0.1 mg ml fecal protein and 50 M TCDCA d5 in a final volume of 200 L. After a 20 min incubation at 37 C. the reaction was stopped by plunging the samples into dry ice. 100 L of acetonitrile was directly added to the reaction mix. After centrifuging at 14 000 g for 20 min 5 L of the supernatant was transferred to an auto sampler vial subjected to analysis by a UPLC system coupled with a XEVO triple quadrupole tandem mass spectrometer Waters Corp. Milford Mass. .

For intestinal mitochondria the mucosa of ileum was gently scraped washed 2 with PBS minced in ice cold mitochondrial homogenization buffer 225 mM mannitol 75 mM sucrose 5 mM MOPS 0.5 mM EGTA and 2 mM taurine pH 7.25 containing 0.2 BSA and homogenized in a loose fitting homogenizer. Homogenates were centrifuged at 500 g for 10 min at 4 C. The supernatant was then centrifuged at 10 000 g for 10 min at 4 C. The final mitochondrial pellet was resuspended in mitochondrial isolation buffer containing 0.2 BSA at a concentration of 0.5 mg ml before functional assessment.

The oxygen consumption of isolated mitochondria was measured in a chamber connected to a Clark type Oelectrode Instech and Omonitor Model 5300 YSI Inc at 25 C. Mitochondria were incubated in respiration buffer 120 mM KCl 5 mM MOPS 0.1 mM EGTA 5 mM KHPOand 0.2 BSA with substrates for either complex I 5 mM glutamate and 5 mM malate or complex II 5 mM succinate and 1 M rotenone . State 3 maximal respiration activity was measured after addition of 1 mM ADP. ADP independent respiration activity State 4 was monitored after addition of 2 M oligomycin. The respiratory control ratio was determined by the state 3 state 4 respiration rates.

Hematoxylin and eosin H E staining were performed on formalin fixed paraffin embedded sections using a standard protocol. Oil red O staining was performed on frozen liver sections using a standard protocol. At least three discontinuous liver sections were evaluated for each mouse.

Hepatic lipids were extracted using a 2 1 chloroform methanol solution. Liver triglycerides were measured with a triglyceride colorimetric assay kit according to the manufacturer s recommendation Bioassay Systems Hayward Calif. .

Caco 2 ATCC HTB 37 cells were induced to differentiate following the method as described previously Ferraretto et al. 27 3919 3925 2007 . The differentiated Caco 2 cells were incubated for 8 hours with DMEM media with 1 fetal bovine serum and then exposed to Gly MCA CDCA GW4064 for 24 hours. RNA was extracted from frozen intestine using TRIzol reagent Invitrogen . cDNA was synthesized from 1 g total RNA using Superscript II reverse transcriptase Invitrogen .

Fecal proteins were prepared from the fecal sample 0.5 g in pH 7.4 PBS 5.0 ml using sonication. Incubation was carried out in 3 mM sodium acetate buffer pH 5.2 containing 0.1 mg ml fecal protein and 50 M Gly MCA or T MCA in a final volume of 200 ml. After a 20 min incubation at 37 C. the samples were plunged into dry ice to stop the reaction. 100 of L methanol was directly added to the 100 ml reaction mixture. After centrifuging at 14 000 g for 20 min 5 ml of the supernatant was transferred to an autosampler vial subjected to analysis by a UPLC system coupled with a XEVO triple quadrupole tandem mass spectrometer Waters Corp. Milford Mass. .

High fat diet HFD 60 kcal consisting of fat was purchased from Bioserv. Inc. Gly MCA was custom synthesized.

Bacon flavored dough pills were produced as described Walker et al. 260 65 69 2012 for oral administration of Gly MCA 0.25 mg Gly MCA pill . Mice were trained to eat the dough pills prior to the study.

Male wild type WT C57BL 6N mice 6 to 8 weeks old were fed a HFD Bio Serv Frenchtown N.J. 60 kcal fat from the age of 6 weeks and were orally administered with vehicle control pills or Gly MCA 0.25 mg pill day 10 mg kg . Mice were housed individually in their home cages. Cumulative food intake and TEEwere measured for 1 week in vehicle and Gly MCA treated mice from 6 to 7 weeks of HFD. TEEwas measured as previously described Ravussin et al. 37 399 403 2013 . All animal studies were performed in accordance with the Institute of Laboratory Animal Resources guidelines and approved by the NCI Animal Care and Use Committee.

For the glucose tolerance test GTT mice were fasted for 16 h blood was drawn and mice were injected intraperitoneally i.p. with 1 g kg glucose. For the insulin tolerance test ITT mice were fasted 4 h blood was drawn and then were injected with insulin Eli Lilly Washington D.C. by i.p. at a dose of 1 U kg body weight. Blood samples were taken from the tail at 15 30 60 and 90 min after injection and glucose measured using a Glucometer Bayer Pittsburgh Pa. .

This example demonstrates that tauro muricholic T MCA acid antagonized FXR activation by taurocholic acid TCA in primary mouse hepatocytes.

Primary hepatocytes from Fxr and Fxr mice were transfected with PGL4 Shp TK firefly luciferase construct and the control plasmid phRL SV40. After 24 h the cells were treated with 100 M taurocholic acid TCA T MCA or T MCA with TCA. The cells were lysed and luciferase activities measured as describe herein. The results are depicted in .

As is apparent from the results depicted in T MCA antagonized FXR activation by TCA in primary hepatocytes from Fxr mice but not from Fxr mice.

Caco 2 cells were transfected with PGL4 Shp TK firefly luciferase construct the control plasmid phRL SV40 and human FXR and human ASBT expression plasmids. After 24 h the cells were treated with 100 M TCA T MCA or T MCA with 100 L 100 M TCA. The cells were lysed and luciferase activities measured as describe herein. The results are depicted in .

This example demonstrates that ATP levels in mouse ileum mucosa were markedly elevated in Fxrmice as compared to Fxrmice after 14 weeks on a high fat diet.

Two separate groups of Fxrmice and Fxrmice were kept on a high fat diet for 14 weeks. ATP levels in the ileum mucosa of both groups of mice were determined as described herein. The results are depicted in .

As is apparent from the results depicted in ATP levels in the ileum mucosa of Fxrmice which do not express farnesoid X receptor FXR in the intestine were markedly elevated as compared with ATP levels in the ileum mucosa of control Fxrmice that express intestinal FXR. These results indicate increased energy expenditure occurred in the small intestine in the absence of the nuclear receptor FXR.

Mice make T MCA in the liver while humans preferentially make Gly MCA. Thus it was of interest to determine whether Gly MCA was also an FXR antagonist. Chenodeoxycholic acid CDCA an FXR agonist at a dose of 100 M increased expression of the Fxr target gene Shp mRNA four fold and the induction of Shp mRNA with CDCA was inhibited by Gly MCA in a dose dependent manner . Gw4064 a synthetic FXR agonist induced expression of the FXR target genes Shp and Fgf19 at both 2 M and 5 M concentrations and induction of both genes was blocked by Gly MCA in a dose dependent manner . In addition Gw4064 treatment inhibited Atp5g mRNA expression and Gly MCA reversed this inhibition . These data indicate that Gly MCA produced in humans is an FXR antagonist similar to T MCA.

Vehicle and tempol treated Fxrand Fxrmice were maintained on a high fat diet for 10 weeks. depicts the body mass gain in grams for vehicle and tempol treated Fxrand Fxrmice after 10 weeks of a high fat diet feeding.

As is apparent from the results depicted in tempol treatment of Fxrmice resulted in a weight gain that was approximately 65 less of the weight gain exhibited by vehicle treated mice. Tempol treatment of Fxrmice which are intestinal specific Fxr null mice resulted in an insignificant difference in weight gain thereby implicating intestinal FXR in mediating the lower weight gain by tempol of mice fed a high fat diet.

Male Fxrand Fxrmice were fed a high fat diet revealing that Fxrmice were resistant to high fat diet induced obesity. The fat mass in grams and as a percentage of body mass was measured in non anesthetized mice using an Echo 3 in 1 NMR analyzer Echo Medical Systems Houston Tex. and the results depicted in . The results show that fat mass and the ratio of fat and body mass of Fxrmice were higher than for Fxrmice. The glucose tolerance test GTT revealed that Fxrmice had improved glucose intolerance compared to Fxrmice which is depicted in which shows the area under the curve for blood glucose in mg dL as a function of time. The insulin tolerance test ITT which is depicted in demonstrated that the insulin sensitivity in Fxrmice was significantly increased as compared to Fxrmice. In addition fasted serum insulin levels and the HOMA in Fxrmice was significantly increased as compared to Fxrmice while fasted glucose was approximately the same in both groups of mice as depicted in .

Significant phylum level shifts from Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes in the gut microbiome composition were observed in mouse cecum following 5 days of tempol treatment by gavage 250 mg kg of mice on normal chow diet. Heat map diagrams of 16S rRNA sequencing indicated that tempol treatment dramatically decreased the family Lactobacillacieae. It was found that tempol treatment robustly reduced the genus . Similar to the results of acute treatment via gavage qPCR analysis of suspected fecal microbes obtained from mice on a high fat diet revealed total bacteria remain unchanged between vehicle and tempol treated mice while tempol treatment cause a shift from Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes as depicted in . These results indicate that the effects of tempol on the gut microbiome are independent of diet and obesity conditions. Furthermore the genus of the Lactobacillaceae was decreased coincident with significant downregulation of bile salt hydrolase BSH enzymatic activity in the feces as depicted in . Bile salt hydrolase BSH deconjugates taurine conjugated bile acids produced in the liver to free bile acids.

This example demonstrates the results of a human FXR competition assay using the synthetic agonist Gw4064 and varied doses of TUDCA T MCA T MCA T MCA. Results were normalized to Renilla expression.

HEK293T cells were co transfected with 1 a chimeric receptor construct in which the carboxy terminal portions of human FXR containing the native ligand binding domain and AF2 transactivation domain was fused to an amino terminal GAL4 DNA binding domain under regulatory control of the constitutively active SV40 promoter 2 a firefly luciferase reporter plasmid driven by the UAS GAL4 DNA response element and 3 a Renilla luciferase reporter gene pRL luciferase Promega Madison Wis. as a transfection efficiency control. Luciferase detection was conducted using the Dual Luciferase Reporter Assay kit Promega Corp. Madison Wis. and a Tecan GeniosPro luminescent plate reader Research Triangle Park N.C. . The results are illustrated in .

As is apparent from the results illustrated in all of the bile acid conjugates TUDCA T MCA T MCA and T MCA inhibited FXR in the presence of the synthetic agonist Gw4064.

This example demonstrates that changes in the gut microbiota brought about by tempol are correlated with NAFLD.

High fat diet HFD is extensively used as a mouse model for NAFLD. The antioxidant tempol selectively modulates the gut microbiota composition and metabolism under normal diet conditions Li et al. 4 2384 2013 . In an effort to determine whether tempol modifies the gut microbiome in the HFD induced NAFLD model 16S rRNA gene sequencing analysis was carried out. Weighted UniFrac analysis showed distinct clustering of cecal communities isolated from vehicle and tempol treated groups on a HFD for 12 weeks. Principal coordinate 1 PC1 explains 56.08 of the variation indicating that tempol had a stronger effect on microbiota composition than vehicle in mice on a HFD for 12 weeks . The separation of samples in the principal components analysis plot reflects abundance differences in significantly decreased Firmicutes and markedly increased Proteobacteria. The genus was identified as a major contributor of the increased Proteobacteria which was found to be significantly lower in obese subjects Karlsson et al. 20 2257 2261 2012 . A dramatic increase in the genus was observed which is negatively correlated with body weight in dogs Handi et al. 84332 343 2013 . The genus and levels were also significantly decreased in tempol treated mice whereas the levels of genus and remained similar .

To identify gut microbiota related markers in urine ultra performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrospray ionization quadrupole time of flight mass spectrometry UPLC ESI QTOFMS based metabolomics analysis was employed. PCA modeling of UPLC ESI QTOFMS negative mode data from mouse urine demonstrated clear discrimination between the tempol and the control group . Loadings scatter plot analysis revealed that two compounds p cresol sulfate m s 187.0060 with retention time 2.61 min and p cresol glucuronide m s 283.0812 with retention time 3.04 min were significantly reduced in urine of the tempol treated group and C . The identities of these compounds were confirmed by MS MS analysis . These results indicated that tempol remodeled the gut microbiota composition and altered gut microbiota related metabolism markers in mice on HFD for 14 weeks. Similar to the results of the tempol treatment model to specifically modulate the gut flora metabolomics analysis revealed that the urinary levels of p cresol sulfate and p cresol glucuronide were almost absent in antibiotic treated mice on a HFD for 14 weeks . Following the change of the gut microbiota composition and related metabolites liver histology indicated a significant reduction in hepatic lipid droplets in tempol treated mice on a HFD for 16 weeks and antibiotic treated mice on a HFD for 7 weeks and B and . Tempol treatment and antibiotic treatment which also changes the gut microbiota composition decreased liver weights and liver body mass ratios respectively and D and B . Hepatic triglyceride TG contents were decreased to approximately 50 and 35 in mice treated with antibiotic and tempol respectively and .

This example demonstrates that gut microbiota modifies bile acid metabolism and affects FXR signaling.

The gut microbiota is tightly associated with bile acid metabolism. UPLC ESI QTOFMS based metabolomics analysis was adopted to determine bile acid composition and levels of bile acid metabolites in the intestine. Scores scatter plot of a PCA model of the UPLC ESI QTOFMS negative mode data from mouse ileum indicated distinct metabolic profiles between the vehicle and antibiotic groups . The top enriched metabolite T MCA m z 514.2871 retention time 6.64 min was increased in the antibiotic treated mice on a HFD for 7 weeks as revealed in the loading scatter plot according to previous methods this increase was similar to what was observed with tempol treatment Li et al. 12 1369 1376 2013 . Analysis of ileum bile acid composition revealed that the levels of taurine conjugated bile acid T MCA were significantly increased after antibiotic treatment . Similar results were obtained from tempol treated mice on a HFD for 16 weeks . The gut microbiota can modify bile acid composition by microbial enzymatic activities. The activity of bile salt hydrolase BSH a bacterial enzyme that hydrolyzes taurine conjugated bile acids to free bile acids was greatly reduced in the antibiotic treated mice on a HFD for 7 weeks . This likely accounts for the most significantly enriched bile acid in the ileum of antibiotic and tempol treated mice on a HFD that was T MCA an FXR antagonist Li et al. 12 1369 1376 2013 Sayin et al. 225 235 2013 . Western blot and qPCR analysis indicated that 12 weeks of HFD treatment significantly induced FXR protein levels and FXR signaling in the ileum as revealed by increases in mRNAs from the FXR target genes small heterodimer partner Shp and fibroblast growth factor 15 Fgf15 mRNAs . Conversely antibiotic treatment decreased Shp and Fgf15 mRNAs indicating that FXR signaling was inhibited in the ileum . The question arose as to whether T MCA inhibited FXR signaling in mice on HFD treatment in vivo. T MCA treatment significantly blunted the Shp and Fgf15 induction by the FXR agonist TCA in the ileum of mice treated with antibiotic on a HFD for three days . These results indicated that both antibiotic and tempol treatments regulated bile acid composition mainly by increasing T MCA as a result of lower bacterial BSH activity which inhibited FXR signaling in the ileum of HFD fed mice.

This example demonstrates that intestine specific Fxr disruption reduces hepatic lipid accumulation in high fat diet fed mice.

To further clarify the role of intestinal FXR in the development of NAFLD intestine specific Fxr null Fxr mice were treated with HFD for 14 weeks. H E staining and Oil red O staining of liver sections showed a significant decrease in lipid accumulation in livers of Fxrmice compared to wild type Fxr mice and B . Fxrmice displayed significantly reduced liver weight and ratio of liver weight . This change in liver weight was largely due to hepatic triglyceride TG levels that were 50 lower in Fxrmice compared to Fxrmice on a HFD for 14 weeks . Mechanistic studies revealed that the expression of mitochondrial electron transport chain ETC complex II related genes such as succinate dehydrogenase complex subunit D integral membrane protein Sdhd complex III related gene such as cytochrome c1 Cyc1 complex IV related gene such as mitochondrially encoded cytochrome c oxidase II mt Co2 cytochrome c oxidase subunit IV isoform 1 Cox4i1 cytochrome c oxidase subunit Va Cox5 ATP synthase H transporting mitochondrial F0 complex subunit C1 subunit 9 Atp5g and ATP synthase H transporting mitochondrial F0 complex subunit D Atp5h were elevated in the ileum epithelium of Fxrmice . Similar results were obtained from antibiotic treated mice . Subsequently there was an approximately 70 increased activity of complex II and no significant elevation in activity of complex I in the ileum mitochondria of Fxrmice compared to Fxrmice . Ileum ATP levels in Fxrmice were also significantly higher than in Fxrmice . Free fatty acids are closely associated with the development of hepatic steatosis Donnelly et al. 115 1343 1351 20052005 . However serum lipidomics revealed that a subset of species of free fatty acids were at similar levels in vehicle and tempol treated Fxrmice and Fxrmice . LC MS MS quantitation confirmed that ileum C16 0 C18 0 C20 0 C22 0 C24 0 and C24 1 ceramide levels were significantly reduced in antibiotic treated mice on a HFD for 7 weeks . Accordingly serum C16 0 C18 0 C20 0 C24 0 and C24 1 ceramide levels in antibiotic treated mice were also significantly lower than in vehicle treated mice . The identity of each ceramide was confirmed by LC MS fragmnentography . Further intestinal mRNAs encoding de novo ceramide synthesis related genes such as serine palmitoyltransferase long chain base subunit 3 Sptlc3 ceramide synthase 4 Cers4 degenerative spermatocyte homolog 1 Degs1 and sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 3 Smpd3 waned significantly in Fxrmice and antibiotic treated mice and D . Ceramide synthase 2 Cers2 mRNA levels were significantly decreased in antibiotic treated mice and have a reduced trend P 0.06 in Fxrmice. The expression of genes involved in ceramide catabolism such as sphingomyelin synthase 1 and 2 Sgms1 and Sgms2 and alkaline ceramidase 1 and 3 Acer1 and Acer3 remained similar in Fxrmice and antibiotic treated mice and D 

To establish a causal relationship between the decrease in ceramide levels and improvement of NAFLD mice on a HFD were treated with antibiotics for a short duration. Three days of antibiotic treatment did not decrease triglyceride content in the liver . Subsequently the FXR signaling pathway was inhibited as revealed by decreased expression of the FXR target gene Shp and Fgf15 mRNAs . As early as 3 days after antibiotic treatment ceramide levels in the ileum of antibiotic treated mice were significantly decreased . These results indicated ceramide might be the cause rather than the result of the development of NAFLD and a biomarker to monitor NAFLD. The contribution of ceramide to NAFLD was further evaluated in cultured primary mouse hepatocytes. Ceramide treatment induced a significantly increased triglyceride contents in primary hepatocytes in a dose dependent manner . To elucidate the mechanisms by which ceramide leads to hepatic steatosis the expression of the genes involved in hepatic lipogenesis and fatty acid oxidation were measured. Fatty acid synthesis related genes such as sterol response element binding protein 1c Srebp1c DNA fragmentation factor alpha like effector a Cidea elongation of very long chain fatty acids protein 6 Elovl6 and TG formulation related genes such as diacylglycerol O acyltransferase 2 Dgat2 were significantly upregulated by ceramide in primary hepatocytes . In contrast the expression of genes involved in fatty acid oxidation such as carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 Cpt1 acyl coenzyme A oxidase 1 Acox1 enoyl coenzyme A hydratase 3 hydroxyacyl coenzyme A dehydrogenase Ehhadh and acetyl coenzyme A acyltransferase 1A Acaa1a were not affected by ceramide treatment . In agreement with the mRNA results ceramide exposure at 2 M and 10 M significantly induced the protein levels of the mature nuclear form of SREBP1 N and the SREBP1 N target gene protein CIDEA and G . In vivo mRNAs encoded by the hepatic fatty acid synthesis related genes Srebp1c Cidea fatty acid synthase Fasn and Elov16 were decreased in antibiotic treated mice compared to vehicle treated mice and Fxrcompared to Fxrmice and B . The expression of genes involved in fatty acid remained at similar levels in antibiotic treated mice compared to vehicle treated mice and Fxrcompared to Fxrmice and D . Western blot analysis further revealed that the protein levels of the mature nuclear form of SREBP1 N and CIDEA were significantly downregulated in livers of antibiotic treated mice on a HFD for 7 weeks and F . The rate limiting enzyme cholesterol 7 hydroxylase CYP7A1 initiates the classic pathway for bile acid synthesis and plays an important role in regulating lipid metabolism. Cyp7a1 mRNA levels were marginally induced in antibiotic treated mice but not in tempol treated mice and H . In addition inflammation related genes such as toll like receptor 2 Tlr2 toll like receptor 4 Tlr4 toll like receptor 9 Tlr9 and tumor necrosis factor Tnf were comparable in antibiotic and tempol mice and J . The present findings revealed that inhibition of ceramide metabolism might be a major contributing factor to improve HFD induced NAFLD development in antibiotic treated mice.

This example demonstrates that inhibition of intestinal FXR is required for gut microbiome mediated progression of NAFLD.

Fxrmice were employed to determine the role of intestinal FXR in the progression of the NAFLD. Liver histology revealed that antibiotic and tempol treatment decreased hepatic lipid droplets in Fxrmice on a HFD for 14 and 16 weeks respectively no changes in hepatic lipid were observed in Fxrmice with these treatments and B and and B . The liver weights and liver body mass ratios of antibiotic and tempol treated Fxrmice were significantly reduced whereas the liver weights and liver body mass ratios were similar in Fxrand Fxrmice and D and D . Hepatic triglyceride content analysis confirmed that antibiotic and tempol treatment did not alleviate hepatic steatosis in Fxrmice and . Ileum and serum C16 0 C18 0 C20 0 C22 0 C24 0 and C24 1 ceramide levels were significantly decreased in Fxrmice and tempol treated Fxrmice but not in Fxrmice and G . In Fxrmice hepatic fatty acid synthesis related genes such as Srebp1c Cidea Fasn and Elovl6 remained unchanged between vehicle treated and antibiotic treated mice . Further the protein levels of the mature nuclear form of SREBP1 and CIDEA proteins were significantly reduced in the liver of tempol treated mice whereas no decrease was noted in Fxrmice treated with tempol and H . The present findings revealed that inhibition of intestinal FXR mediates the amelioration of NAFLD caused by antibiotic and tempol treatments.

This example demonstrates the systemic responses of mice on a high fat diet to tempol and antibiotic treatment.

A total of 53 metabolites involved in the metabolism of amino acids carbohydrates and nucleotides were identified by H NMR. 1D H NMR spectra of the cecal contents are dominated by short chain fatty acids SCFAs nucleotides oligosaccharides and some amino acids. Glycogen glucose amino acids and nucleotides are the dominant metabolites observed in the H NMR spectra of liver.

In order to obtain the metabolic variations associated with different biological sample groups pair wise OPLS DA was performed between data obtained from cecal contents or liver of mice after tempol or antibiotic treatment. The quality of these models was further validated by evaluation with CV ANOVA p

Tempol treatment significantly decreased the levels of lipid and unsaturated fatty acid UFA in the livers whereas tempol treatment significantly elevated the levels of glucose glycogen bile acids and a range of nucleotide metabolites e.g. uridine hypoxanthine and 5 IMP nicotinurate and choline in comparison with the vehicle treated wild type mice. These observations are consistent with reduced lipogenesis in the liver due to tempol treatment. However no significant change in lipid and glucose metabolism was observed in the liver of Fxrmice after tempol treatment. In addition antibiotic treatment significantly elevated the levels of bile acids trimethylamine oxide TMAO choline fumarate formate amino acids including branched chain amino acids leucine isoleucine and valine alanine glycine tyrosine and phenylalanine and some nucleic acids such as hypoxanthine uridine and 5 IMP in the liver. Compared with the vehicle treated Fxrmice Fxrmice exhibit lower lipid and UFA levels but higher taurine and glycogen levels in the livers.

This example demonstrates a synthesis of muricholic acid 9 glycine muricholic acid Gly MCA and tauro muricholic acid T MCA in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

 Muricholic acid MCA 9 was prepared as illustrated in by following the literature procedure Iida T Momose T et al. 30 1267 1279 1989 . In general esterification of the dihydroxy acid 1 with methanol under acid catalysis provided ester 2 in quantitative yield. Protection of the hydroxyl group in the 3 position with ethyl chloroformate provided carbonate 3. Oxidation of the 6 hydroxyl group with potassium chromate gave ketone 4 in quantitative yield. Bromination with 47 HBr solution gave bromo ketone 5 which on reduction with NaBHgave bromohydrin in moderate yield. Reductive dehydrobromination with zinc metal provided olefin 7 in about 80 yield. Cis dihydroxylation with osmium tetroxide to give cis diol 8 followed by hydrolysis provided s muricholic acid 9 in quantitative yield. r muricholic acid 9 was conjugated with glycine to provide glycine muricholic acid Gly MCA 16. A suspension of ethyl glycinate was reacted with MCA 9 and EEDQ by refluxing overnight. The residue obtained after workup was dissolved in boiling ethanol and hydrolyzed with 10 o KCO. The aqueous solution was acidified to give Gly MCA 16 as a white powder in 68 yield. H NMR CDCl 0.75 s 3H 18 Me 1.01 d 3H J 6.5 Hz 21 Me 1.14 s 3H 19 Me 3.44 3.56 m 2H 3.58 3.61 m 1H 3.91 s 2H .

Fecal extracts were prepared as described above. Gly MCA 50 M was incubated with fecal extract 0.1 mg mL . The negative control was fecal extract alone. The positive control was fecal extract 0.1 mg mL and T MCA acid 50 M . The samples were analyzed by UPLC to determine the amount of MCA hydrolysis product and the results shown in .

Gly MCA was given to mice via oral gavage at dosages of 0 1 5 and 50 mg kg of Gly MCA with the Gly MCA dosed in corn oil. Gly MCA was detected using ultra performance liquid chromatography electrospray ionization quadrupole time of flight mass spectrometry UPLC ESI QTOFMS . The results are shown in .

Mice were dosed with vehicle or Gly MCA at 1 mg kg 5 mg kg and 50 mg kg. After 24 h serum aminotransferase ALT and aspirate aminotransferase AST levels were determined and the results shown in .

As is apparent from the results shown in Gly MCA did not exhibit significant liver toxicity at each of the doses as compared with vehicle.

This example demonstrates that Gly MCA significantly inhibited the FXR activity induced by the synthetic FXR agonist GW4064.

HEK293T fibroblasts were transiently co transfected with 1 a chimeric receptor construct in which the carboxy terminal portions of human FXR containing the native ligand binding domain and AF2 transactivation domain was fused to an amino terminal GAL4 DNA binding domain under regulatory control of the constitutively active SV40 promoter 2 a firefly luciferase reporter plasmid driven by the UAS GAL4 DNA response element and 3 a Renilla luciferase reporter gene pRL luciferase Promega Madison Wis. as a transfection efficiency control. GW4064 or GW4064 and Gly MCA were added to the media for 24 h the cells were harvested and cell extracts prepared. Luciferase detection was conducted using the Dual Luciferase Reporter Assay kit Promega Madison Wis. and a Tecan GeniosPro luminescent plate reader Research Triangle Park N.C. . The results are shown in .

As is apparent from the results shown in Gly MCA significantly inhibited the FXR activity induced by GW4064.

Differentiated Caco 2 cells were treated with 100 M of the FXR agonist chenodeoxycholic acid CDCA and with 0 100 M or 200 M Gly MCA and expression of the FXR target gene Shp mRNA measured. As is apparent from the results shown in CDCA caused a 4 fold increase in expression of Shp mRNA. Gly MCA inhibited the induction of Shp mRNA with CDCA in a dose dependent manner.

Differentiated Caco 2 cells were treated with 0.2 M or 5 M GW4064 and with 100 M or 200 M Gly MCA. Control cells were not treated with either agent. Relative expression of the FXR target gene mRNAs Shp mRNA Fgf19 mRNA and Atp5g mRNA were determined and the results shown in respectively. Expression of Shp mRNA and Fgf19 mRNA induced by GW4064 was blocked by Gly MCA in a dose dependent manner and B . GW4064 treatment inhibited expression of the FXR target gene Atp5g mRNA and Gly MCA reversed the inhibition .

This example demonstrates that inhibition of FXR signaling by Gly MCA is a potent therapeutic strategy for treatment of obesity insulin resistance and NAFLD.

To determine whether inhibition of intestinal FXR could be a therapeutic target for high fat diet HFD induced obesity insulin resistance and NAFLD and confirm that this transcription factor is a suitable drug target HFD treated mice were orally administered Gly MCA. Gly MCA treatment reduced body weight gain after one week of treatment with a HFD and B . The absolute fat mass and the fat lean mass ratio measured by NMR were significantly decreased in Gly MCA treated mice after 7 weeks of treatment compared with vehicle treated mice and D . To explore the mechanism of reduced adiposity in Gly MCA treated mice cumulative food intake energy expenditure EE using an energy balance technique TEE food energy intake and body composition change were measured. Food intake was comparable between the two groups . Gly MCA treatment increased the energy expenditure significantly which could contribute to the decreased body weight gain of mice on a HFD compared with vehicle treated mice . To clarify the role of Gly MCA in obesity related glucose homeostasis glucose and insulin tolerance tests GTT and ITT respectively were performed. The GTT revealed that after 6 weeks of HFD challenge Gly MCA treated mice displayed significantly reduced blood glucose levels after glucose loading compared with vehicle treated mice and B . The ITT demonstrated that the insulin sensitivity was significantly increased after Gly MCA treatment . These results indicated that Gly MCA improved HFD induced obesity and insulin resistance. Liver histology indicated a marked reduction in hepatic lipid droplets after Gly MCA treatment of mice that were fed a HFD for 7 weeks . Gly MCA treatment decreased liver weights and liver body mass ratios . Hepatic triglyceride contents were decreased to approximately 51 in mice treated with Gly MCA . These results indicated that Gly MCA treatment protected mice from HFD induced non alcoholic fatty liver disease NAFLD . To exclude the possibility that the effect of Gly MCA on body weight and NAFLD were due to a non specific toxicological effects serum aminotransferase ALT and aspartate aminotransferase AST biomarkers of liver toxicity were determined. ALT and AST were significantly higher on a HFD and GlyMCA treatment significantly decreased serum ALT and AST levels and B thus indicating that the dose of Gly MCA employed was not toxic but actually decreased HFD induced hepatic toxicity. NAFLD is tightly associated with bile acid metabolism. UPLC ESI QTOFMS based metabolomics analysis was adopted to determine bile acid composition and levels of bile acid metabolites in the feces and intestine. A Scores scatter plot of a PCA model of the UPLC ESI QTOFMS negative mode data from mouse feces and ileum indicated distinct metabolic profiles between the vehicle and Gly MCA treated groups and B . The top enriched metabolite T MCA m z 514.2871 retention time 6.64 min was increased in the Gly MCA treated mice on a HFD for 9 weeks as revealed in the loading scatters plot . Levels of T J MCA were significantly increased whereas TCA levels were significantly decreased in feces after Gly MCA treatment . The levels of taurine conjugated bile acids were increased in the ileum of Gly MCA treated mice notably levels of T MCA were significantly increased . Gly MCA levels were markedly increased in the feces and ileum after Gly MCA treatment for 9 weeks respectively . Serum triglyceride levels remained similar between the two groups on a HFD for 9 weeks and B . Serum C16 0 C20 0 C22 0 and C24 1 ceramides levels and ileum C16 0 C18 1 and C24 0 ceramides levels were reduced in Gly MCA treated mice on a HFD for 9 weeks and B . Gly MCA treatment decreased Shp and Fgf15 mRNAs indicating that FXR signaling was inhibited in the ileum . Intestinal mRNAs encoding ceramide de novo synthesis related genes such as serine Sptlc3 Cers4 Degs1 and Smpd3 were significantly lower in Gly MCA treated mice . The expression of Shp mRNA was similar between two groups indicating that FXR signaling wasn t affected in the liver . Cyp7a1 mRNA levels were induced in Gly MCA treated mice . Since Fgf15 mRNA levels were lower this might contribute to the increase of Cyp7a1 mRNA levels in Gly MCA treated mice. In a model of genetically induced obesity leptin receptor deficient db db mice treated with Gly MCA for 6 weeks had reduced body weight as compared to vehicle treated mice weight loss was significant after just one week of treatment . The absolute fat mass and the fat lean mass ratio as measured by NMR were significantly decreased in Gly MCA treated db db mice after 6 weeks of Gly MCA treatment compared with vehicle treated mice and B . Liver histology indicated a significant decrease in hepatic lipid droplets after Gly MCA treatment . Gly MCA treatment decreased liver weights and liver body mass ratios and C . Liver TG contents were dramatically improved in mice treated with Gly MCA . Gly MCA treatment significantly decreased serum ALT and AST levels thus indicating that the dose of Gly MCA employed was not toxic to the db db mice and reduced liver toxicity in this mouse model. Levels of T MCA and T MCA were significantly increased in feces and ileum after Gly MCA treatment . The accumulation of Gly MCA in the ileum is far much more than liver feces and serum . Serum triglyceride levels remained similar after 6 weeks of Gly MCA treatment . Serum C16 0 C20 0 C22 0 and C24 1 ceramides levels and ileum C16 0 C18 0 C18 1 C20 0 C22 0 C24 0 and C24 1 ceramides levels were reduced in Gly MCA treated mice compare to vehicle treatment and C . In another model of HFD induced obesity C57BL 6N mice made obese by 12 weeks of feeding a high fat diet were treated with Gly MCA. Due to limited amounts of Gly MCA these mice were treated with only 5 mg kg GMCA. Despite the lower dosing they had reduced body weight gain as compared to vehicle treated mice from two weeks of treatment . The absolute fat mass as measured by NMR were significantly decreased in Gly MCA treated obese mice after 6 weeks of treatment compared with vehicle treated mice . Liver histology indicated a marked amelioration in hepatic lipid droplets after Gly MCA treatment . Gly MCA treatment reduced liver weights and liver body mass ratios and C . Levels of T MCA and T MCA were significantly enhanced in feces and ileum after Gly MCA treatment . The accumulation of Gly MCA in the ileum is far greated than liver feces and serum .

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and at least one and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The use of the term at least one followed by a list of one or more items for example at least one of A and B is to be construed to mean one item selected from the listed items A or B or any combination of two or more of the listed items A and B unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this invention are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

