---

title: Agitator grid with adjustable restrictor elements for concrete block machine
abstract: A feedbox for use in an automated dry-cast concrete block machine, including an agitator grid having a plurality of parallel agitator elements disposed parallel to a bottom of the feedbox, a plurality of prongs extending downward toward the bottom of the feedbox from each of the parallel agitator elements, and one or more restrictor elements slideably coupled with a coupling mechanism to one or more of the plurality of prongs which can be slideably adjusted along a length of the one or more prongs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09492944&OS=09492944&RS=09492944
owner: Ness Inventions, Inc.
number: 09492944
owner_city: St. Paul
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141125
---
This Non Provisional patent application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 908 490 filed Nov. 25 2013 entitled AGITATOR GRID WITH ADJUSTABLE RESTRICTOR PLATES FOR CONCRETE BLOCK MACHINE incorporated herein.

Concrete blocks also referred to as concrete masonry units CMU s are typically manufactured by forming them into various shapes as part of an automated process employing an automated concrete block machine such as those machines manufactured by Besser Company Alpena Mich. and Columbia Machine Inc. Vancouver Wash. for example. Such machines typically employ a mold frame assembled so as to form a mold box within which a mold cavity having a negative of a desired block shape is formed. To form a block a pallet is moved by a conveyor system onto a pallet table which is then moved upward until the pallet contacts and forms a bottom of the mold cavity.

A hopper is used to fill a feedbox assembly with a dry cast concrete mixture. The feedbox assembly is then moved from a refracted or withdrawn position to an extended position over the mold frame and fills the mold cavity with concrete via the open top. A head shoe assembly is then moved into descends the top of the mold cavity and compresses the concrete typically via hydraulic or mechanical means to a desired psi rating pounds per square inch while simultaneously vibrating the mold cavity along with the vibrating table.

As a result of the compression and vibration the concrete reaches a level of hardness which enables the resulting finished block to be immediately removed from the mold cavity. To remove the finished block the mold frame and mold cavity remain stationary while the shoe assembly pallet and pallet table move downward and force the finished block from the mold cavity. The conveyor system then moves the pallet bearing the finished block away and a clean pallet takes its place. This process is repeated for each block.

Feedbox assemblies typically employ agitator grids to assist in mixing and dispersing the dry cast concrete material in the feedbox so that it is evenly distributed into the mold cavity. Conventional agitator grids typically comprise a set of parallel bars that are joined by one or more cross members with prongs or fingers extending vertically downward form the parallel bars and into the concrete material in the feedbox. The agitator grid is then moved or vibrated so that the prongs or fingers agitate the dry cast concrete so as to better disperse the dry cast concrete material over and into the mold cavity.

In order to prevent dry cast concrete from being ejected from the feedbox and onto other parts of the concrete block machine and mold assembly while agitated deflector or containment plates are sometimes attached to the top of the feedbox drawer. However due to gaps between the plates such plates blocking or deflector plates are not always effective at preventing concrete from being ejected from the feedbox during agitation.

In the following Detailed Description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. In this regard directional terminology such as top bottom front back leading trailing etc. is used with reference to the orientation of the Figure s being described. Because components of embodiments of the present invention can be positioned in a number of different orientations the directional terminology is used for purposes of illustration and is in no way limiting. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The following detailed description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims.

Concrete block machine includes a headshoe assembly a table or pallet table a hopper in which a supply of a dry cast concrete mixture is maintained and a feedbox sometimes referred to as a drawer or feedbox drawer having a bottom and including an agitator grid in accordance the present disclosure which will be described in greater detail below. A mold assembly defining one or more mold cavities in which dry cast concrete blocks are formed is mounted to concrete block machine . In one embodiment a top plate is mounted to an upper side of mold assembly which assists in confining dry cast concrete mixtures to areas of mold assembly and from spreading to other areas of the concrete block machine . Pallet table moves vertically up down as indicated by directional arrows to position a pallet below an open bottom of mold assembly and head shoe assembly moves vertically up down as indicated by directional arrows to compress a dry cast concrete mixture within mold cavity . Feedbox moves between a refracted position below hopper and an extended position above mold assembly as indicted by the dashed lines and by directional arrows

During a block formation process a pallet such as pallet is moved by a conveyor system not shown onto pallet table which in turn is moved upward until pallet contacts and forms a bottom to mold cavity or mold cavities formed by mold assembly . Feedbox is positioned below hopper which fills feedbox with a desired amount of dry cast concrete mixture. After being filled with a dry cast concrete mixture feedbox is moved to extended position dashed lines in above mold assembly where it fills mold cavity or cavities with the dry cast concrete mixture as it moves and is position over the open top of mold cavities . Agitator grid is moved agitated to loosen the dry cast concrete mixture within feedbox so that the dry cast concrete mixture is more easily transferred from feedbox to mold cavities .

After the dry cast concrete mixture has been emptied from feedbox into mold cavity feedbox is returned to the retracted position below hopper . Concrete block machine then moves head shoe assembly down into the mold cavities and compresses the dry cast concrete mixture while simultaneously vibrating head shoe assembly mold assembly and pallet table with pallet .

As a result of the compression and vibration the dry cast concrete within mold cavities reaches a level of hardness which enables the resulting molded concrete blocks to be removed from therefrom. To remove the mold concrete blocks from the mold cavities head shoe and table along with pallet are moved downward until a top surface of molded concrete block is lower than the bottom of mold assembly at which point the conveyor system moves the pallet bearing the molded blocks to a curing oven. Simultaneously the conveyor system positions a new pallet on table which raises the new pallet to close the open bottom of mold assembly and the above described process is repeated.

As described above an agitator grid is used to mix and loosen the dry cast concrete mixture within feedbox to assist in dispersing the dry cast concrete mixture into the one or more mold cavities of mold assembly . Conventional agitator grids typically comprise a set of parallel bars or rods which are joined by one or more cross members to form an agitator framework with a plurality of fingers or prongs extending downward from the parallel bars into the feedbox. The agitator grid is moved so as to agitate the dry cast concrete mixture within feedbox and assist in dispersing the mixture into mold cavities as feedbox moves over mold assembly .

While such conventional agitator grids effectively assist in dispersing the dry cast concrete mixture from feedbox the dry cast mixture is not always evenly distributed within the mold cavities . For example generally illustrates portions of one embodiment of mold assembly along with top plate which is suitable for use in concrete block machine of . Mold assembly includes a mold frame having side members and cross members which are coupled to together to form mold cavity . According to the example of division plates are installed to divide mold cavity into multiple mold cavities and with a concrete block being formed in each of the separate mold cavities.

As feedbox passes over mold assembly from a rear side toward a front side and empties the dry cast concrete mixture into mold cavities and often excess concrete is often deposited in central portions of the mold cavities and while the front side and corners of the mold cavity particularly the corners along the front side thereof receive less concrete than is desired. Such uneven distribution of dry cast concrete mixture within the mold cavities can lead to over and or under compaction of the concrete mixture which in turn can lead to defects in the molded concrete blocks such as cracks or even portions of the blocks crumbling and falling away.

Such uneven distribution of concrete within mold cavity can be particularly troublesome when a texture is formed on a surface of the block s formed in mold cavity especially when the textures surfaces are formed along the front and rear sides of mold cavity . Many types of CMUs e.g. pavers patio blocks light weight blocks cinder blocks etc. retaining wall blocks and architectural units in particular it is desirable for at least one surface of the block to have a desired texture such as a stone like texture for instance. When arranged to form a structure with the textured surface visible the structure will have the appearance of being constructed from natural stone for example.

In operation moveable liner plates are moved from a retracted position to a desired extended position by drive assemblies and mold cavities are filled with dry cast concrete via feedbox . Head shoe assembly then compresses the concrete within mold cavities while mold assembly is vibrated to form pre cured concrete block therein. The moveable liner plates are then moved to a retracted position and the pre cured concrete blocks having textured surfaces formed by textured faces are removed form mold cavities through action of head shoe assembly and table and pallet and sent to a curing oven as described above.

While such techniques are effective at forming textured surfaces on the faces of the resulting pre cast concrete blocks air pockets trapped between the textured faces of the moveable liner plates and the dry cast concrete mixture within mold cavities are forced out during the compression vibration process. As the air pockets are forced out the dry cast concrete mixture settles proximate to the textured faces and causes the finally finished concrete block to a height along the textured surface e.g. front face of block which is shorter than that along an opposite surface e.g. rear face of block . The settling and resulting differences in height between the opposing surfaces of the block is exacerbated by the uneven distribution of dry cast concrete mixture deposited within mold cavities by feedbox especially when the moveable liner plates and corresponding textured faces are positioned on the front and rear sides of mold assembly as illustrated by .

As a result as illustrated by when stacked to form a soil retention wall as illustrated by each course of blocks is tilted downward from horizontal such that soil retention wall leans further downward from horizontal with each successive course of blocks causing soil retention wall to have a forward lean. Such a forward lean may cause soil retention wall or other structures formed using masonry blocks to become unstable.

In attempts eliminate problems associated with the uneven distribution of concrete within mold cavity deflector elements are sometimes affixed such as by welding to various locations on the upper surfaces of the framework of agitator grid opposite the prongs extending downward into the feedbox . The deflector elements are intended to lessen the amount of dry cast concrete mixture deposited in areas of mold cavity that tend to receive too much concrete and to direct more dry cast concrete to areas of mold cavity that tend to receive too little concrete and thereby even out the level of dry cast concrete throughout mold cavity . However because of their height relative to feedbox such metal elements tend to be ineffective at evenly distributing dry cast concrete within mold cavity and often result in concrete being ejected from feedbox during agitation of agitator grid . Such metal elements are also very difficult if not impossible to adjust.

According to the embodiment of agitator grid includes a set of four parallel rods or bars and also referred to herein as agitator bars or agitator elements which extend horizontally above and across division plates and and which are joined together by a pair of crossbars and which together form a grid like frame. A plurality of fingers or prongs extend downwardly from each of the parallel bars and into a dry cast concrete mixture when such mixture is present in feedbox . According to the example of two prongs extend from each of the parallel bars between each of the mold division plates and correspond to each of the mold cavities . A plurality of restrictor or diverter elements or plates are moveably coupled to prongs by a coupling mechanism such as restrictor plate coupled to prongs of parallel bar corresponding to mold cavity using set screw collars .

As more clearly illustrated in restrictor plates and are rectangular in shape restrictor plates and are also rectangular in shape but are larger in area than restrictor plates and while restrictor plates and are non rectangular shape. It is noted that the restrictor plates can be of any number of different shapes and or sizes.

According to one embodiment the position of restrictor plates and collars is vertically adjustable along a length of prongs by sliding collars and plates thereon. According to one embodiment restrictor plates are held at a desired position along prongs by a retaining mechanism such as a set screw in collar . It is noted that any suitable retaining mechanism other than a collar and set screw arrangement can also be employed to adjustably secure diverter plates to prongs . According to one embodiment as illustrated by coupling restrictor plates to at least a pair of prongs more securely couples restrictor plates to agitator grid and prevents rotation of restrictor plates during agitation. However it is noted that in other embodiments restrictor plates may be coupled to more than two or less than two i.e. one prongs . For example if coupled to only a single prong prongs may be rectangular in shape so as to prevent rotation of restrictor plates .

According to one embodiment as illustrated by the vertical position or vertical height of each restrictor plate can be independently adjusted so that up to all of the restrictor plates can be set at different heights. For example in restrictor plate is positioned so as to be set a height which is greater than that of restrictor plates and . Adjusting the vertical height of restrictor plates enables better control over the volume of concrete disposed into corresponding areas of the corresponding mold cavity. The higher the restrictor plate is positioned on prong i.e. closer to parallel bars the bigger the gap between restrictor plate and the top of mold cavities and the more dry cast concrete will be able to flow into mold cavity at that location. Conversely the lower restrictor plate is positioned on prong i.e. further away from parallel bars the smaller the gap between restrictor plate and the top of mold cavity and the less dry cast concrete will be able to flow from feedbox into mold cavity at that location. For example in restrictor plate allows more dry cast concrete to be disposed in the corresponding portion of mold cavity that is allowed by restrictor plates and into the corresponding portions of mold cavities and

In contrast to conventional techniques of fixedly attaching diverter elements to the upper surface of feedbox agitator grid according to the present disclosure employs restrictor plates that can be individually and readily adjusted along the length of prongs via set screw collars or any suitable adjusting mechanism so as easily control fine tune and provide desired amounts of concrete to different parts of the mold cavity or cavities within mold assembly . By distributing volumes of dry cast concrete to desired locations with mold cavity or mold cavities more even compression of the dry cast concrete within mold cavities by head shoe assembly is obtained thereby reducing or eliminating problems associated with over and under compression e.g. cracking crumbling of the dry cast concrete blocks . Also by directing more concrete to areas of the mold cavities where textures are imparted to the block faces see agitator grid employing adjustable restrictor plates can reduce or eliminate the tapering in heights of such blocks as described above.

Additionally restrictor plates according to the present disclosure are fully adjustable and customizable to meet different mold cavity shapes and can be readily employed on existing concrete block machines without requiring any additional or custom components. Instead restrictor plates can be adapted to be readily installed on the agitator grids of conventional concrete block machines without the need for additional components. Additionally the restrictor plates of agitator gird can be used in conjunction with or as a replacement for controllable cutoff bars which are also employed to adjust vary the volume of concrete deposited in mold cavities but which can require more complicated installation and operation e.g. more moving parts than restrictor plates of agitator grid of the present disclosure.

Although defined above as having a set of four parallel bars and eight restrictor plates and being employed with a mold assembly having four mold cavities it is noted that agitator grid according to the present disclosure can employ any number of bars prongs and restrictor plates and be used with molds having any number of mold cavities.

Additionally although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a variety of alternate and or equivalent implementations may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope of the present invention. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the specific embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is intended that this invention be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

