---

title: Method and apparatus for contextual query based on visual elements and user input in augmented reality at a device
abstract: An approach is provided for enabling a contextual query based on visual elements and user input in augmented reality at a device. The approach includes a method for receiving at least one input specifying content information, wherein the input is received via at least one user interface presenting image data. The method further includes processing and/or facilitating a processing of the image data to cause, at least in part, an identification of one or more visual elements. The method also includes causing, at least in part, a construction of at least one query based, at least in part, on the content information and the one or more visual elements.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558716&OS=09558716&RS=09558716
owner: HERE Global B.V.
number: 09558716
owner_city: Veldhoven
owner_country: NL
publication_date: 20140505
---
Service providers e.g. wireless cellular etc. and device manufacturers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of rapid development has been in providing various services contents information etc. to users of devices in various settings. For instance a user may use a device e.g. a mobile phone to search for information on a particular point of interest POI e.g. a hotel an object e.g. a book a service e.g. taxi bus train etc. or the like. Additionally as some user devices and applications may support augmented reality AR or virtual reality VR functionalities a user may utilize those functionalities to interface with the user devices for requesting or receiving the services or contents. In one example a user may request for navigation information from his current location to a certain POI e.g. a restaurant where the direction may be requested and presented via an AR map application at a user device e.g. a navigation device in an automobile. However for initiating or continuing a service a traditional interface to a user device may be cumbersome time consuming or not feasible at all times as a user interfacing with the device may be multitasking e.g. driving on a conference call etc. For instance a user driving a car may not be able to continue to interface with and enter detailed information into a map application on a navigation device. In another instance a user may wish to utilize contents at the device and provide minimal user input for initiating or continuing a service at the user device based at least in part on the contents and the user input. Therefore service providers and device manufactures face significant technical challenges in enabling users to efficiently interface with a user device for requesting and receiving services and contents.

Therefore there is a need for enabling a contextual query based on visual elements and user input in augmented reality at a device.

According to one embodiment a method comprises receiving at least one input specifying content information wherein the input is received via at least one user interface presenting image data. The method further comprises processing and or facilitating a processing of the image data to cause at least in part an identification of one or more visual elements. The method also comprises causing at least in part a construction of at least one query based at least in part on the content information and the one or more visual elements.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured with the at least one processor to cause at least in part the apparatus to receive at least one input specifying content information wherein the input is received via at least one user interface presenting image data. The apparatus is also caused to process and or facilitate a processing of the image data to cause at least in part an identification of one or more visual elements. The apparatus is further caused to cause at least in part a construction of at least one query based at least in part on the content information and the one or more visual elements.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to receive at least one input specifying content information wherein the input is received via at least one user interface presenting image data. The apparatus is also caused to process and or facilitate a processing of the image data to cause at least in part an identification of one or more visual elements. The apparatus is further caused to cause at least in part a construction of at least one query based at least in part on the content information and the one or more visual elements.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for receiving at least one input specifying content information wherein the input is received via at least one user interface presenting image data. The apparatus further comprises means for processing and or facilitating a processing of the image data to cause at least in part an identification of one or more visual elements. The apparatus also comprises means for causing at least in part a construction of at least one query based at least in part on the content information and the one or more visual elements.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface UI element and or 2 at least one device UI functionality the 1 at least one device UI element and or 2 at least one device UI functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device UI element and or 2 at least one device UI functionality the 1 at least one device UI element and or 2 at least one device UI functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing a method of any of the claims.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for enabling a contextual query based on visual elements and user input in augmented reality at a device are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

To address at least these problems a system of introduces the capability of contextual query based on visual elements and user input in augmented reality at a device. Generally a user may utilize a user device to initiate or continue with a search request for information associated with a POI an object a topic a person or the like. However with technological advancements available in user devices applications service providers databases network capabilities and the like queries may be determined and processed based on contextual information determined or provided by a user device wherein the user interface may be in AR or VR. In AR a UI at a user device can present a digitally enhanced view of a user s environment where the user may experience a rich and realistic interaction with various content items associated with the user or the user device. For instance a UI utilizing AR and various sensors on a smart mobile device can process additional information or content e.g. audio video images etc. to overlay on top of contents in a user environment. In one example in a query om AR a user may initiate a query based on content and user input at a device as well as any associated contextual information which can be determined or inferred by processing the content and the user input. In one scenario a user may utilize a visual image of an object POI etc. which may have been captured via the device stored at the device visible at the device or the like for requesting search information about the object or POI present in the visual image. Further the user may input additional information at the device for continuing or refining the search request. For example a user device may be displaying on a map application the current location of the user e.g. while driving walking etc. and if the user inputs a building number name it could be inferred the user is requesting for the map application to show highlight location of the building on the map. In another example a user may select an object from a plurality of objects visible in an image and with some additional input the user may initiate a query on the selected object. In various scenarios one or more applications at a user device capable of AR or VR may determine and process objects POIs or user input for initiating or continuing with a query. Further contextual information about the object POI and the user input for a query may be determined by the user device and or a service content provider.

In one embodiment the system receives at least one input specifying content information wherein the input is received via at least one user interface presenting image data. In one embodiment the at least one user interface includes at least in part at least one AR user interface. In one embodiment one or more applications or an AR query application may receive a user input or content information from one or more sensors or a UI element at a UE . In one embodiment the content information is determined from a user tactile input a user audio input a user gaze information a user activity one or more applications of at least one device or a combination thereof. For instance the content information may be determined from a user s interaction with a touch sensitive display a keyboard a microphone an optical sensor or a magnetometer. For example a user may sketch write onto a touch screen on a mobile device. Also the content information may be determined from data associated with one or more applications e.g. a calendar application a social networking application or the like. In one embodiment the system determines the image data via one or more sensors at the at least one device one or more applications at the at least one device from a storage associated with the at least one device or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a user may utilize a camera sensor and a multimedia application at a UE to capture the image data which may be an image of an object a POI or the like which may be presented via a UI display at the UE . In one embodiment the image data may include an image that is retrieved from a local or a remote storage device. In one embodiment an image may be temporarily captured via a view finder of a camera sensor and then presented at the UI display of the UE wherein a user may interact with the image. For example a user may enable a camera sensor at a UE and then point the UE at an object with or without taking a picture or a video of the object e.g. just view the image. In one embodiment an image may be caused to be presented at a UE by an external source e.g. a service or a content provider of the system . For example an image of a street on a map application at a UE e.g. a navigation device may be caused to be presented by a navigation service provider. In one embodiment one or more sensors at a UE may determine a user input at the UE wherein the user input may be overlaid or associated with an image presented at the UE . In one embodiment a UE may receive capture a media item and a user input which can be communicated to a service or a content provider for further processing or servicing.

In one embodiment the system processes and or facilitates a processing of the image data to cause at least in part an identification of one or more visual elements. In one embodiment one or more applications may process the image data by utilizing one or more image detection algorithms software programs or the like wherein the processed image data may indicate one or more visual elements e.g. objects POIs people scenery etc. For example the image data may be of a coffee table where there may be a plurality of objects thereon e.g. a coffee cup a phone a magazine a train ticket etc. In one embodiment a user may select a specific object present in an image and then input additional user input for associating with the specific object. For example a user may select the train ticket from the plurality of objects in the image of the coffee table. In one embodiment the processing may cause a presentation of one or more identified visual elements objects so that a user or an application may select from the identified objects. In various scenarios the one or more visual elements may include images of a one or more real world objects or POIs or the one or more visual elements may include images of one or more objects included in one or more other images. For example a visual element may be of a public transit bus travelling along a roadway or the visual element may be of a public transit bus depicted in a picture e.g. in a magazine on a bus ticket etc. 

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a construction of at least one query based at least in part on the content information and the one or more visual elements. In one embodiment one or more applications at a user device may construct generate a query based on the content information e.g. user input and the visual elements objects identified in an image at the user device. In one embodiment one or more applications at the user device may determine information based on one or more associations of the content information and the visual elements wherein the information may be utilized in constructing the query. For example an image of a bus stop overlaid by a user input of time bus route number or the like may result in information indicating that the user is seeking information about the bus schedule at that bus stop. In one embodiment a service or a content provider may use some or all of the query information from a user device for determining the information or construction of the query.

In one embodiment the system determines at least one screen location of the at least one input with respect to the at least one user interface wherein the identification of the one or more visual elements is further based at least in part on the at least one screen location. In one embodiment one or more sensors or applications at a user device may detect the location of one or more user inputs with reference to a display at the user device and a visual element that may be presented onto the display. In one scenario a mobile device may be displaying an image of train and a user may interact with a UI of the mobile device for inputting one or more information items or selections into the mobile device. For example the user may utilize a keypad e.g. physical or virtual a touch sensitive screen a microphone an optical sensor or the like for inputting the user input wherein the user input may include selecting the presented image inputting a textual character or the like. In one embodiment the location of the user input at a screen is compared to location of an image that is presented at the screen. In one example there may be several objects presented at a screen of a user device and a user input may be directed to one of the objects. In one embodiment the identification of the one or more visual elements is based at least in part on an overlapping of the at least one screen location with at least one other screen location associated with the one or more visual elements. In one scenario a picture displayed at a user device screen may be of a street scene may include a plurality of objects POIs people cars buses or the like and the user input may indicate a selection of one or more of the objects presented at the screen.

In one embodiment the system determines contextual information associated with at least one device presenting the at least one user interface at least one user of the at least one device the content information the image data the one or more visual elements or a combination thereof wherein the construction of the at least one query is further based at least in part on the contextual information. In one embodiment one or more applications at a user device may determine contextual information based on one or more relations between a user device presenting a UI a one user of the user device the content information the image data the one or more visual elements or the like. In one embodiment the contextual information may be utilized in constructing a query. For example an image of a taxi cab overlaid by a user input of 1 hour may result in determining contextual information indicating that the user would like to request for a taxi cab to his current location in one hour. In one embodiment a service or a content provider may use some or all of the query information from a user device for determining the contextual information or construction of the query.

In one embodiment the system determines one or more services one or more points of interest or a combination thereof associated with the one or more visual elements the image data the content information or a combination thereof wherein the construction of the at least one query is further based at least in part on the contextual information. In various scenarios one or more applications at a user device or at a service content provider can determine whether one or more services POIs content requests or the like are relevant to a visual element an image data content information e.g. user input or the like. For example location information of the user device a POI identified in the image data and user activity e.g. at a meeting in the office at home at a party etc. may be utilized to determine a service that may be relevant or of interest to the user. In one embodiment a service provider may determine the service or POIs as part of a service offered to the user. In one embodiment a determined service or POI and any associated contextual information may be utilized to construct a query for information associated with the service or the POI.

In one embodiment the system processes and or facilitates a processing of the at least one query to determine one or more query results. In various embodiments a query may be processed by a user device a service content provider etc. wherein the query may indicate a request for information about an object and a user input. In one scenario the requested information may be determined from information posted stored published a social networking location service online map service or a combination thereof. In one example a user device may determine the requested information from a local storage device that may contain some or all of the requested information which may have been previously acquired e.g. a previous search result . Further the query results may include additional information that one or more applications at a user device may store for use in future queries. For example information about the local environment or a POI depicted in a media item may be requested for use while the user is at the current location or future access by the user once the user has changed location.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part a presentation of the one or more query results as at least one overlay element on the one or more visual elements one or more other visual elements present in the at least one user interface or a combination thereof. In one embodiment search results may be aggregated by one or more applications at a user device wherein the results may be layered upon one or more visual elements objects presented at a UI display of the user device. In one embodiment the presentation is in AR wherein the user may further interact with the presented information and the visual elements. For example the user may select a presented object and its associated information for additional or more detailed information.

In one embodiment the system causes at least in part an initiating of one or more requests for one or more services based at least in part on the content information the one or more visual elements or a combination thereof. In various embodiments one or more applications at a user device or one or more service content providers may initiate a request for one or more services one or more content items or the like which may be based on the content information the visual elements the contextual information or the like. For example an image of a flat tire on an automobile along a roadway overlaid with the user input help presented at a display of a user device may cause an application at the user device to initiate a request e.g. a call a text message etc. for assistance to one or more other users e.g. contacts in the user device phone directory or service providers. In one embodiment a service provider may receive process or analyze the content information the visual elements or any related contextual information from a user device wherein the analysis may cause the service provider to initiate one or more services to the user or to initiate a request for one or more services for the user. In various scenarios an initiated request may be for a combination of services or contents e.g. physical or virtual wherein contextual information at a user device may be monitored for updating the request for the services or contents. For example in the above flat tire scenario after initiating a request for assistance with the flat tire contextual information at the user device may indicate that the user needs other transportation from his current location to another location. For instance the additional contextual information may be determined from a user input an application at the user device e.g. a meeting schedule in a calendar or a communication message at the user device e.g. a text message a voice message or the like. 

As shown in in one embodiment the system includes user equipment UE also collectively referred to as UE and or UEs which may be utilized to execute one or more applications also collectively referred to as applications including social networking web browsing searching content sharing multimedia applications augmented reality AR virtual reality VR UI map application web client etc. In various embodiments the applications may be utilized to scan capture process submit analyze select append tag etc. various media items or elements in the media items. For example an application on a UE may be used to review a digital image and any related information. In various scenarios the application may facilitate creation and or consumption of various contents e.g. viewing images videos listening to audio recordings reading documents and the like. Additionally the applications may render and or facilitate a rendering a presentation of media items including AR and or VR elements. Further a UI application may facilitate a receiving or a processing of one or more user inputs wherein the inputs may be detected via tactile audio optical or the like sensors at a UE and the processing may be partially or completely accomplished at the UE .

Additionally the applications may facilitate communication with other UEs one or more service providers also collectively referred to as service providers one or more content providers also collectively referred to as content providers one or more GPS satellites also collectively referred to as GPS satellites an AR query application and or with other components of the system directly and or via communication network . In one embodiment the UEs may include data content collection modules also collectively referred to as DC module for determining and or collecting data and or content associated with the UEs one or more users of the UEs applications one or more content items e.g. multimedia content and the like. In addition the UEs can execute an application that is a software client for storing processing and or forwarding one or more information items to other components of the system .

In various scenarios the applications and or the DC module may facilitate presentation or selection detection of various elements present in a media item and or may facilitate creating or associating metadata with the media item. Additionally the applications or the DC module may determine contextual information based on a media item presented at a UE and any user inputs associated therewith.

In one embodiment the service providers may include and or have access to one or more service databases also collectively referred to as service database which may include various user information user profiles user preferences one or more profiles of one or more user devices e.g. device configuration sensors information etc. service providers information other service providers information and the like. In one embodiment the service providers may include one or more service providers offering one or more services for example search services online shopping social networking services e.g. blogging content sharing media upload media download media streaming account management services or a combination thereof. Further the service providers may conduct a search for content items media items information coupons and the like associated with one or more users POIs geo locations and the like. In one embodiment a service provider may receive and process a request input from a user device for determining information associated with one or more elements present in one or more media items. In one embodiment the service provider may utilize various algorithms software applications modules hardware firmware and the like for processing recognizing detecting comparing and the like content items e.g. media items that may be associated with a user a user device or the like.

In one embodiment the content providers may include and or have access to one or more content database also collectively referred to as content database which may store include and or have access to various content items. For example the content providers may store content items e.g. at the content database provided by various users various service providers crowd sourced content and the like. Further the service providers and or the content providers may utilize one or more service application programming interfaces APIs integrated interface through which communication media content and information e.g. associated with users applications services content etc. may be shared accessed and or processed.

In various embodiments the service providers and or the content providers may include and or have access to information associated with people POIs objects etc. For example the information may be available from various public private or government controlled databases which may be accessed via the communication network .

The UEs may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device healthcare diagnostic and testing devices product testing devices multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver loud speakers display monitors radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device wrist watch or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UEs can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. Further the UEs may include various sensors for collecting data associated with a user a user s environment and or with a UE for example the sensors may determine and or capture audio video images atmospheric conditions device location user mood ambient lighting user physiological information device movement speed and direction and the like.

In one embodiment the UE includes a location module sensor that can determine the UE location e.g. a user s location . The UE location may be determined by a triangulation system such as a GPS assisted GPS A GPS Cell of Origin wireless local area network triangulation or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use the one or more satellites to pinpoint the location e.g. longitude latitude and altitude of the UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module sensor may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . GPS coordinates can provide finer detail as to the location of the UE . In another embodiment the UE may utilize a local area network e.g. LAN WLAN connection to determine the UE location information for example from an Internet source e.g. a service provider .

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

By way of example the UEs the service providers and the content providers may communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the UEs the service providers and the content providers may interact according to a client server model. It is noted that the client server model of computer process interaction is widely known and used. According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others. It is also noted that the role of a client and a server is not fixed in some situations a device may act both as a client and a server which may be done simultaneously and or the device may alternate between these roles.

The location module can determine a user s location for example via location of a UE . The user s location can be determined by a triangulation system such as GPS assisted GPS A GPS Cell of Origin or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use satellites to pinpoint the location of a UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . Location coordinates e.g. GPS coordinates can give finer detail as to the location of the UE when media is captured. In one embodiment GPS coordinates are stored as context information in the memory module and are available to the context processing module the DC module the service providers and or to other entities of the system e.g. via the communication interface . Moreover in certain embodiments the GPS coordinates can include an altitude to provide a height. In other embodiments the altitude can be determined using another type of altimeter. In certain embodiments the location module can be a means for determining a location of the UE an image or data used to associate an object in view with a location.

The magnetometer module can be used in finding horizontal orientation of the UE . A magnetometer is an instrument that can measure the strength and or direction of a magnetic field. Using the same approach as a compass the magnetometer is capable of determining the direction of a UE using the magnetic field of the Earth. The front of a media capture device e.g. a camera can be marked as a reference point in determining direction. Thus if the magnetic field points north compared to the reference point the angle the UE reference point is from the magnetic field is known. Simple calculations can be made to determine the direction of the UE . In one embodiment horizontal directional data obtained from a magnetometer can be stored in memory module made available to other modules and or applications of the UE and or transmitted via the communication interface to one or more entities of the system .

The accelerometer module can be used to determine vertical orientation of the UE . An accelerometer is an instrument that can measure acceleration. Using a three axis accelerometer with axes X Y and Z provides the acceleration in three directions with known angles. Once again the front of a media capture device can be marked as a reference point in determining direction. Because the acceleration due to gravity is known when a UE is stationary the accelerometer module can determine the angle the UE is pointed as compared to Earth s gravity. In certain embodiments the magnetometer module and accelerometer module can be means for ascertaining a perspective of a user. This perspective information may be stored in the memory module made available to other modules and or applications of the UE and or sent to one or more entities of the system .

In various embodiments the sensors module can process sensor data from various sensors e.g. GPS accelerometer gyroscope thermometer etc. to determine environmental e.g. atmospheric conditions surrounding the UE user mood e.g. hungry angry tired etc. location information and various other information from a range sensors that may be available on one or more devices. For example the sensors module may detect conditions including humidity temperature geo location biometric data of the user etc. Once again this information can be stored in the memory module and sent to the context processing module and or to other entities of the system . In certain embodiments information collected from the DC collection module can be retrieved by the runtime module and stored in memory module made available to other modules and or applications of the UE and or sent to one or more entities of the system . The sensors module may function to determine related objects by processing sensor data from an imaging device one or more other devices or a combination thereof. Such sensor data may be transmitted via synchronization signals from to one or more other devices. Furthermore the sensors module may determine field of view at a UE display which may present one or more element objects people POIs or the like. Additionally the elements objects may be associated with one or more subjects location information or the like that may be pre determined and embedded in the image data.

In one embodiment the multimedia module may be utilized to capture various media items for example graphical encoded data representations images video audio and the like wherein the captured media may be submitted to one or more modules and applications of the UE a service provider and or a content provider for further processing storage sharing and the like. For example an image of an object in a view finder of a camera at the UE or a captured image of the object stored at the UE may be submitted to a service provider and or to the context processing module for processing or analysis. In one embodiment the multimedia module may also be utilized to process various media items for determining one or more elements present in the media item. For example a media item may be a picture that includes images of people POIs objects buildings etc. In one embodiment the multimedia module may use one or more image processing algorithms for processing a media item and for identifying one or more elements present therein.

In various embodiments the runtime module may operate in conjunction with one or more modules components of a UE to facilitate or manage the enabling of a query based on visual elements and user input in augmented reality at a UE .

The user interface can include various methods for a user to interact with a UE . For example the user interface can have outputs including a visual component e.g. a screen an audio component a physical component e.g. vibrations or other methods for UI. User inputs may be via a touch screen interface a scroll and click interface a button interface a microphone a camera or the like wherein the user inputs may include audio video physical gestures text or the like. For example the UI module may detect an object element in an image that has been selected by a user or additional input by the user. In one scenario the UI module may recognize a user touching a screen and selecting a point comprised of a number of pixels wherein the pixels touched may be associated with a given element object.

In one embodiment the communication interface can be used to communicate with one or more entities of the system . Certain communications can be via methods such as an internet protocol messaging e.g. SMS MMS etc. or any other communication method e.g. via the communication network . In some examples the UE can send context information associated with the UE to the service providers content providers and or to other entities of the system .

The context processing module may be utilized in determining context information from the DC module and or applications executing on the runtime module . This information may be caused to be transmitted via the communication interface to the service providers and or to other entities of the system . The context processing module may additionally be utilized as a means for determining information related to the user an instance of data a value a content item an object a subject location information and the like. In certain embodiments the context processing module can infer higher level context information from the context data such as favorite locations significant places common activities interests in products and services POIs at various geo locations priority level etc.

The control logic may oversee tasks including tasks performed by the other modules where for example although the other modules may perform the actual task the control logic may determine when and how those tasks are performed or otherwise direct the other modules to perform the tasks.

In one embodiment the control logic and the input analysis module may determine a query request input from a user for determining information associated with one or more elements present in a media item. For example the input may be a picture including one or more elements objects and one or more user inputs e.g. additional information . In one embodiment the input analysis module may utilize one or more suitable applications image recognition algorithms or software to process the media item and determine one or more elements present in the media item. For example the media item may be a picture or a video recording. In one scenario a video recording may be analyzed to determine various images of elements that may have been captured in the recording. In one embodiment the image recognition may identify distinct characteristics associated with an element present in the media item. In one use case scenario the input analysis module may determine and sort the information associated with a plurality of elements present in a media item so that any relevant associated information may be determined for each or a selected element. In one embodiment a user may select one or more elements present in a media item for the processing and to include in a query for information services or contents associated with the elements. In one embodiment the input analysis module may indicate to a user whether it has detected any elements in a given media item. For example it is possible that one or more elements present in a media item are not detected which may be due to one or more parameters associated with the media item e.g. picture quality. In one embodiment the input may include one or more information items provided by a user. For example the input may be in the form of text audio gestures device movement or the like that are to be included in and considered in conjunction with a media item. In one scenario a user may utilize a UE to capture a picture of a coffee maker at his home and then via an AR UI input draw a question mark on top of the image displayed at his UE screen. In one scenario the input analysis module may infer contextual information that the user may be interested in finding a nearby coffee vendor e.g. a caf a restaurant etc. In various embodiments the input analysis module may generate contextual information based on the one or more parameters for example an object selected in a media item additional user input user profile device profile location information time date any potential current event associated with the user or the user location or the like. In one embodiment the contextual information may be based on one or more relations among the one or more parameters. For example a relation between an object in a picture and the user location or a relation between the object and a current event e.g. a conference associated with the user.

In one embodiment the control logic and query module may utilize contextual information from the input analysis module to conduct one or more searches for information associated with one or more objects selected in a media item and the user input. In various scenarios various available databases e.g. public private governmental social networking etc. may be accessed and utilized to conduct the one or more searches. In one embodiment one or more credentials associated with a user who is requesting the information may be requested and utilized for accessing the various available databases. For example a user may have requested information associated with restricted access to a social networking account wherein access to that information may require the user s credentials to the social networking site. In one embodiment a metadata e.g. object type location vendor date time etc. associated with a certain object in a media item may be utilized to determine contextual relation to a user input for conducting a query via one or more potential databases. In one use case scenario image recognition information associated with one or more other media items that may be similar to a media item of interest and user input may be utilized to determine the contextual information. The query module may request for information that may be determined from information posted stored published featured or otherwise broadcast to one or more subscribers of a service e.g. a social networking location service online map service or a combination thereof. In a further embodiment the query module may generate a contextual query based on an object in a media item and a user input at a UE specifying one or more associations between the object the user input and an environment depicted in the media item wherein the information may include real time information historical information or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the presentation module may cause a presentation of the query information associated with one or more objects in a media item wherein the presentation may be via one or more applications modules or software at one or more user devices. In one example the presentation may include visual effects on the one or more objects and or on the media item. In various scenarios the presentation may include one or more AR or VR elements which may provide additional visual effects for a better or more effective user experience. In one embodiment the presentation module may cause a presentation of a UI at a user device so that a user may interact with one or more objects in a media item in one or more other media items or to input one or more user query or feedback parameters. In one embodiment the UI may provide various options for a user to select e.g. highlight hover over or the like one or more objects in a media item and or to input user input e.g. audio text etc. 

In one embodiment the communication module can be used to communicate with one or more entities of the system . Certain communications can be via methods such as an internet protocol messaging e.g. SMS MMS etc. or any other communication method e.g. via the communication network . In some examples the AR query application may receive context information associated with a UE query parameters user information media items user interactions or the like from a UE the service providers the content providers and or from other entities of the system .

Referring to the process begins at step where the AR query application may receive at least one input specifying content information wherein the input is received via at least one user interface presenting image data. In one embodiment the at least one user interface includes at least in part at least one AR user interface. In one embodiment one or more applications or an AR query application may receive a user input or content information from one or more sensors or a UI element at a UE . In one embodiment the content information is determined from a user tactile input a user audio input a user gaze information a user activity one or more applications of at least one device or a combination thereof. For instance the content information may be determined from a user s interaction with a touch sensitive display a keyboard a microphone an optical sensor or a magnetometer. For example a user may sketch write onto a touch screen on a mobile device. Also the content information may be determined from data associated with one or more applications e.g. a calendar application a social networking application or the like. In one embodiment an image may be caused to be presented at a UE by an external source e.g. a service or a content provider of the system . For example an image of a street on a map application at a UE e.g. a navigation device may be caused to be presented by a navigation service provider. In one embodiment one or more sensors at a UE may determine a user input at the UE wherein the user input may be overlaid or associated with an image presented at the UE . In one embodiment a UE may receive capture a media item and a user input which can be communicated to a service or a content provider for further processing or servicing.

In step the AR query application may process and or facilitates a processing of the image data to cause at least in part an identification of one or more visual elements. In one embodiment one or more applications may process the image data by utilizing one or more image detection algorithms software programs or the like wherein the processed image data may indicate one or more visual elements e.g. objects POIs people scenery etc. For example the image data may be of a coffee table where there may be a plurality of objects thereon e.g. a coffee cup a phone a magazine a train ticket etc. In one embodiment a user may select a specific object present in an image and then input additional user input for associating with the specific object. For example a user may select the train ticket from the plurality of objects in the image of the coffee table. In one embodiment the processing may cause a presentation of one or more identified visual elements objects so that a user or an application may select from the identified objects. In various scenarios the one or more visual elements may include images of a one or more real world objects or POIs or the one or more visual elements may include images of one or more objects included in one or more other images. For example a visual element may be of a public transit bus travelling along a roadway or the visual element may be of a public transit bus depicted in a picture e.g. in a magazine on a bus ticket etc. 

In step the AR query application may cause at least in part a construction of at least one query based at least in part on the content information and the one or more visual elements. In one embodiment one or more applications at a user device may construct generate a query based on the content information e.g. user input and the visual elements objects identified in an image at the user device. In one embodiment one or more applications at the user device may determine information based on one or more associations of the content information and the visual elements wherein the information may be utilized in constructing the query. For example an image of a bus stop overlaid by a user input of time bus route number or the like may result in information indicating that the user is seeking information about the bus schedule at that bus stop. In one embodiment a service or a content provider may use some or all of the query information from a user device for determining the information or construction of the query.

Referring to the process begins at step where the AR query application may determines at least one screen location of the at least one input with respect to the at least one user interface wherein the identification of the one or more visual elements is further based at least in part on the at least one screen location. In one embodiment one or more sensors or applications at a user device may detect the location of one or more user inputs with reference to a display at the user device and a visual element that may be presented onto the display. In one scenario a mobile device may be displaying an image of train and a user may interact with a UI of the mobile device for inputting one or more information items or selections into the mobile device. For example the user may utilize a keypad e.g. physical or virtual a touch sensitive screen a microphone an optical sensor or the like for inputting the user input wherein the user input may include selecting the presented image inputting a textual character or the like. In one embodiment the location of the user input at a screen is compared to location of an image that is presented at the screen. In one example there may be several objects presented at a screen of a user device and a user input may be directed to one of the objects. In one embodiment the identification of the one or more visual elements is based at least in part on an overlapping of the at least one screen location with at least one other screen location associated with the one or more visual elements. In one scenario a picture displayed at a user device screen may be of a street scene may include a plurality of objects POIs people cars buses or the like and the user input may indicate a selection of one or more of the objects presented at the screen.

In step the AR query application may determine contextual information associated with at least one device presenting the at least one user interface at least one user of the at least one device the content information the image data the one or more visual elements or a combination thereof wherein the construction of the at least one query is further based at least in part on the contextual information. In one embodiment one or more applications at a user device may determine contextual information based on one or more relations between a user device presenting a UI a one user of the user device the content information the image data the one or more visual elements or the like. In one embodiment the contextual information may be utilized in constructing a query. For example an image of a taxi cab overlaid by a user input of 1 hour may result in determining contextual information indicating that the user would like to request for a taxi cab to his current location in one hour. In one embodiment a service or a content provider may use some or all of the query information from a user device for determining the contextual information or construction of the query.

In step the AR query application may determine the image data via one or more sensors at the at least one device one or more applications at the at least one device from a storage associated with the at least one device or a combination thereof. In one embodiment a user may utilize a camera sensor and a multimedia application at a UE to capture the image data which may be an image of an object a POI or the like which may be presented via a UI display at the UE . In one embodiment the image data may include an image that is retrieved from a local or a remote storage device. In one embodiment an image may be temporarily captured via a view finder of a camera sensor and then presented at the UI display of the UE wherein a user may interact with the image. For example a user may enable a camera sensor at a UE and then point the UE at an object with or without taking a picture or a video of the object e.g. just view the image. 

In step the AR query application may determine one or more services one or more points of interest or a combination thereof associated with the one or more visual elements the image data the content information or a combination thereof wherein the construction of the at least one query is further based at least in part on the contextual information. In various scenarios one or more applications at a user device or at a service content provider can determine whether one or more services POIs content requests or the like are relevant to a visual element an image data content information e.g. user input or the like. For example location information of the user device a POI identified in the image data and user activity e.g. at a meeting in the office at home at a party etc. may be utilized to determine a service that may be relevant or of interest to the user. In one embodiment a service provider may determine the service or POIs as part of a service offered to the user. In one embodiment a determined service or POI and any associated contextual information may be utilized to construct a query for information associated with the service or the POI.

Referring to the process begins at step where the AR query application may process and or facilitate a processing of the at least one query to determine one or more query results. In various embodiments a query may be processed by a user device a service content provider etc. wherein the query may indicate a request for information about an object and a user input. In one scenario the requested information may be determined from information posted stored published a social networking location service online map service or a combination thereof. In one example a user device may determine the requested information from a local storage device that may contain some or all of the requested information which may have been previously acquired e.g. a previous search result . Further the query results may include additional information that one or more applications at a user device may store for use in future queries. For example information about the local environment or a POI depicted in a media item may be requested for use while the user is at the current location or future access by the user once the user has changed location.

In step the AR query application may cause at least in part a presentation of the one or more query results as at least one overlay element on the one or more visual elements one or more other visual elements present in the at least one user interface or a combination thereof. In one embodiment search results may be aggregated by one or more applications at a user device wherein the results may be layered upon one or more visual elements objects presented at a UI display of the user device. In one embodiment the presentation is in AR wherein the user may further interact with the presented information and the visual elements. For example the user may select a presented object and its associated information for additional or more detailed information.

In step the AR query application may cause at least in part an initiating of one or more requests for one or more services based at least in part on the content information the one or more visual elements or a combination thereof. In various embodiments one or more applications at a user device or one or more service content providers may initiate a request for one or more services one or more content items or the like which may be based on the content information the visual elements the contextual information or the like. For example an image of a flat tire on an automobile along a roadway overlaid with the user input help presented at a display of a user device may cause an application at the user device to initiate a request e.g. a call a text message etc. for assistance to one or more other users e.g. contacts in the user device phone directory or service providers. In one embodiment a service provider may receive process or analyze the content information the visual elements or any related contextual information from a user device wherein the analysis may cause the service provider to initiate one or more services to the user or to initiate a request for one or more services for the user. In various scenarios an initiated request may be for a combination of services or contents e.g. physical or virtual wherein contextual information at a user device may be monitored for updating the request for the services or contents. For example in the above flat tire scenario after initiating a request for assistance with the flat tire contextual information at the user device may indicate that the user needs other transportation from his current location to another location. For instance the additional contextual information may be determined from a user input an application at the user device e.g. a meeting schedule in a calendar or a communication message at the user device e.g. a text message a voice message or the like. 

The processes described herein for enabling contextual queries based on visual elements and user input in augmented reality at a device may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to enabling contextual queries based on visual elements and user input in augmented reality at a device. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for enabling contextual queries based on visual elements and user input in augmented reality at a device. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for enabling contextual queries based on visual elements and user input in augmented reality at a device is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for enabling contextual queries based on visual elements and user input in augmented reality at a device.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to enable contextual queries based on visual elements and user input in augmented reality at a device. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of enabling contextual queries based on visual elements and user input in augmented reality at a device. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a UI of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a UI circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a UI software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal for enabling contextual queries based on visual elements and user input in augmented reality at a device. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

Additionally sensors module may include various sensors for instance a location sensor a speed sensor an audio sensor an image sensor a brightness sensor a biometrics sensor various physiological sensors a directional sensor and the like for capturing various data associated with the mobile terminal e.g. a mobile phone a user of the mobile terminal an environment of the mobile terminal and or the user or a combination thereof wherein the data may be collected processed stored and or shared with one or more components and or modules of the mobile terminal and or with one or more entities external to the mobile terminal .

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

