---

title: Slice view
abstract: A method, apparatus, article of manufacture, and computer program product display multiple slices of a three-dimensional body in a computer drawing application. A first view of a 3D body is displayed. One or more slice sketches are defined on the first view. A single slice view of the three dimensional body is displayed. The single slice view simultaneously depicts all of the slices with a zero-depth representation of each slice.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09041712&OS=09041712&RS=09041712
owner: Autodesk, Inc.
number: 09041712
owner_city: San Rafael
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140722
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of application Ser. No. 11 850 534 filed on Sep. 5 2007 by Michael Bogues Tyler J. Henderson Hans Walter Herzog Yun Chen and Shivakumar Sundaram entitled SLICE VIEW which application is incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates generally to computer aided designs CAD and in particular to a method apparatus and article of manufacture for showing portions of drawing views as a slice in a computer drawing application.

In the design of complex parts users need the ability to show portions of Drawing Views as a Slice or zero depth section. This is particularly important in industries where companies design machines to handle or interact with other companies products. When the components have significant curvature it s difficult to tell whether other components interfere or fit correctly by examining standard sketch or section views.

Moreover where parts and curvatures are complex it s often beneficial to be able to create a series of slices through a set of parts at specific intervals. For example such functionality is important in the design of products where the curvature and or profile of the 3D product at multiple positions needs to be analyzed or communicated e.g. a boat hull design . This again helps designers and fabricators understand how the elements of a design fit together and work.

Section cuts which typically show the elements both at and behind cut elements fail to provide sufficient clarity for complex parts. What is needed is a tool for creating zero depth slice views and allowing multiple slices to be juxtaposed simultaneously. These problems may be better understood with a detailed description of prior art section cuts.

As illustrated in in the prior art the user could potentially take the time to individually hide the edges that are behind the section line A A. However such a practice would be very inefficient and the user may accidentally hide critical edges.

Accordingly what is needed is the capability to display the geometry of a selected component along a particular cut plane s .

Users desire the ability to show portions of drawing views as a slice or zero depth section. Such a slice view is useful in industries where companies design machines to handle or interact with the products of other companies. In assembly drawings users often want to show a section view or projection view details of their product but only show the slice of their customer s product or vice versa. Further such functionality is important in the design of products where the curvature and or profile of the 3D product at multiple positions needs to be analyzed or communicated.

One or more embodiments of the invention provide the ability to define and display a slice on an existing drawing view or on the fly dynamically during creation of a section view. A slice of a component is defined as a creating a zero depth cut. The output of a slice produces a sheet body that is of zero depth or in other words produces a cross section of the component being sliced.

One or more embodiments of the invention provide a slice tool that enables the user to define multiple open profile sketches as slice lines of a three dimensional body. Each slice line represents a slice cutting surface of the 3D body. A single slice view of the 3D body is displayed that simultaneously depicts all of the slice cutting surfaces with a zero depth representation of each slice. The zero depth representations reflect intersections between the 3D body and the slice cutting surface.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which is shown by way of illustration several embodiments of the present invention. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Embodiments of the invention provide the ability for a user to define a location of a zero depth series of multiple slices that can be placed at any location interval the user desires in one view of a three dimensional model that is reflected and displayed in a second view. Advantages requirements of slice functionality may include any view can be sliced all components in a view can be sliced including surface bodies except wire bodies which could produce an invalid point slice sketches may be required to be open slice sketches cannot be closed or self intersecting slice sketches can be of any geometry type line arc circle ellipse spline etc. the resulting sliced component may be hatched the resulting sliced view can be dimensioned slice sketches cannot be sliced or cut again slice sketches can be projected to create other projected views and slice views can be shaded.

One or more embodiments of the invention are implemented by a computer implemented graphics program wherein the graphics program is represented by a window displayed on the display device . Generally the graphics program comprises logic and or data embodied in or readable from a device e.g. one or more fixed and or removable data storage devices connected directly or indirectly to the computer one or more remote devices coupled to the computer via a data communications device etc.

In one or more embodiments instructions implementing the graphics program are tangibly embodied in a computer readable medium e.g. data storage device which could include one or more fixed or removable data storage devices such as a zip drive floppy disc drive hard drive CD ROM drive tape drive etc. Further the graphics program is comprised of instructions which when read and executed by the computer causes the computer to perform the steps necessary to implement and or use the present invention. Graphics program and or operating instructions may also be tangibly embodied in a memory and or data communications devices of computer thereby making a computer program product or article of manufacture according to the invention. As such the terms article of manufacture and computer program product as used herein are intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device or media.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the exemplary environment illustrated in is not intended to limit the present invention. Indeed those skilled in the art will recognize that other alternative environments may be used without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The Graphical User Interface displays information to the operator and provides the functionality for the operator s interaction with the graphics program .

The Image Engine processes the drawing files and delivers the resulting graphics to the monitor for display. In one or more embodiments the Image Engine provides a complete application programming interface API that allows other computer programs to interface to the graphics program as needed.

The Database is comprised of two separate types of databases 1 a 3D database known as the 3D world space that stores 3D information and 2 one or more 2D databases known as the 2D view ports that stores 2D information derived from the 3D information.

The graphics program of the invention may be utilized in a CAD application or a 3D solid modeling environment e.g. AutoCAD or Inventor available from the assignee of the present invention . However alternative drawing programs may also be utilized in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

As described above users may desire the ability to show portions of drawing views as a slice or zero depth section. Such a slice can be viewed as a modification or rendering of an existing view and not the creation of a new view . For example while creating a new section view the user can modify the view to be a slice view on the fly i.e. dynamically . One or more embodiments of the invention provide the ability to simultaneously display multiple slices in a single view. The pixels that are displayed in any one slice are determined based on the intersection of the outline of a selected and participating component with a slice plane cutting surface see details below .

As the prior art illustrates in it is difficult to distinguish the portion of the B pillar that is contacted by the clamp . The user could take the time to individually hide the edges that are behind the section line but such action would be inefficient and may accidentally hide critical edges. Instead in accordance with embodiments of the invention the user can set various options referred to as context options for the B pillar to Slice which automatically replaces the Section View of the B pillar with the Slice.

Similar to illustrates two drawing views of a surface in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. The images depict the outer surface of the left side housing of an electric shaver. The view on the right side of is a side view of the housing that contains the sketch lines A E representing the cutting planes surfaces for the slice operation. The view on the left is the top view of the housing on which the Slice operation was performed. Each contour line in the left view represents the portion of the surface that each cutting plane surface passes through.

The images depicted in and the type of workflow represented therein may be desirable when the user wants to analyze the size and shape of 3D geometry at different cross sections without displaying the background geometry which can make it difficult to distinguish the important geometry. As illustrated in one industry where this may be very important is in the design of ship boat hulls. Designers want to analyze the shape of the hull at different positions along the entire length. Further embodiments of the invention may provide the ability to persist the labels e.g. A E of with the drawing slices and may or may not be displayed to enable the user to more accurately understand and view the different slices.

Similar to also illustrate the use of a slice view in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. illustrates a side view of a vice . Sketch lines A E are used to define the slice planes surfaces. illustrates a right side view of the vice with a slice operation. As can be seen each slice is simultaneously displayed as a wireframe image or as a zero depth slice of the vice . is an isometric view of the slice operation. Each slice or slice plane surface can be seen in the isometric view of . The distances between each slice plane surface reflect the distances between each sketch line defined in .

As illustrated in the user has the ability to define slice planes surfaces at any interval desired. Embodiments may provide the ability to define slices on regularly spaced intervals e.g. every twenty pixels or every three feet scaled appropriately . Alternatively irregular intervals can be utilized e.g. wherever the sketch is a spline or line vertical or otherwise or defined and based on a property of the object . For example the user may specify that a slice should be taken whenever any selected object changes color angle shape attribute etc. In other words the location of slices can be defined based on any sequence series of properties desired.

In addition the slice lines can be any shape. However embodiments of the invention may require that the slice lines be open profile. An open profile slice line has a discreet start point and discreet end point where the start and end point don t meet. In other words each slice line can either be a line or several line segments but the lines can t self intersect. For example slice lines can be straight lines curved lines splines arcs ellipses circles an S a half circle etc. However some embodiments may exclude the use of circles rectangles polygons etc. as slice lines because they are not open profile or self intersect.

In addition to the above the user may also have the ability to determine which components of an assembly participate in a slice view. For example suppose a 3D assembly having multiple parts is displayed. However the user may desire to cut away the outside surface of the 3D assembly and display such a surface as a wireframe i.e. a zero depth slice while retaining the 3D nature of the parts components inside the 3D assembly i.e. beneath the surface . The user can individually select all of the extraneous elements parts and elect whether to include them in a slice operation or hide them.

A user interface option may also override any individual part settings and include all parts of an assembly in a slice operation. In other words the user may opt to conduct a slice operation while slicing all parts in the assembly. Such a slice operation can potentially override any individual part settings and all components parts in a view will be sliced according to the section line geometry. The slice operation is essentially a full zero depth section view.

Further solid assembly components parts that are sliced may display cross hatching or any other graphic in the slice view. However surface components that are sliced may not display any cross hatching since they may be represented by a wire frame only.

Embodiments of the invention further provide for automatically updating the slice view when subsequent to editing either the slice lines or the underlying body surface. For example if a user edits updates a section line or a slice line the slice operation or resulting slice view will be automatically updated to reflect such an update. Such automatic updating occurs in the slice view without additional user action interaction. In other words the graphics program will update the slice view without the user manually having to update the slice operation or view. In this regard the slice operation and underlying configuration of the slice operation is fully editable and fully parameteric. One can edit the geometry or a component or a slice line and such edits are reflected in the slice operation view. Further one can edit whether a component of an assembly participates in a slice operation and such editing will also be automatically and dynamically reflected in the slice view operation.

At step one or more slice sketches lines are defined on the first source view. In alternate embodiments two or more slice sketches may be defined and subsequent steps reflect such multiple slice sketch definitions . Such slice sketches may be defined by sketch geometry or work geometry. For example one or multiple piece s of work or sketch geometry being used in a single view can be used to create a or multiple section slices. With respect to sketch geometry the user may draw the slice sketches e.g. by drawing a line or a spline onto the first view. With respect to work geometry the slice sketches can be defined by accepting one or more planes surfaces e.g. work planes in a model of the 3D body or by projecting work planes into a sketch in the drawing . Alternatively the user may specify a single point that is projected to create a line that can then be used as a slice plane. The slice sketches may also be open profile lines. Further each of the slice sketches defines a slice cutting surface. In the case of a straight slice sketch a slice plane may be defined. Alternatively if the slice sketch is a spline a curved cutting surface may be defined.

At step a single slice view of the 3D body is displayed. Such a single slice view may also be referred to as a target view. The single slice target view simultaneously depicts all of the one or more slices with a zero depth representation of each slice. Such a view may depict each slice by displaying an outline of the 3D body where it intersects with each slice cutting surface. The slice view may also be displayed as an isometric view that illustrates a depth component between slices displayed based on a distance between each slice line defined in the first view.

As described above at step the 3D body or the slice sketches may be edited and the slice view is automatically and dynamically updated to reflect the editing. For example the slice sketch can be moved in. In addition the 3D body may be an assembly having multiple parts components. A user can determine whether each of the multiple parts participates in the single slice view. If the part does not participate in the slice view the first part is displayed in an original form of the first part e.g. in a 3D model view . However if the part participates in the slice view a zero depth representation of the part is displayed in the slice view. Thus only components that have been tagged identified for the slice operation will be sliced. Other components will be left alone and their participation in the view depends on their location in the view with respect to the slice sketch. Wire bodies may be discarded as slicing them may produce a degenerate body point which is invalid.

Embodiments of the invention may also provide the ability to utilize a slice tool. Such a slice tool allows the user to select the resulting target view e.g. isometric left front side etc. that the user desires a slice to appear in. The tool may then be used to sketch slice lines in the source view that is different than the target view to define the slice planes surfaces. The user may then select the sketch that contains the slice lines and choose the various options e.g. regarding whether a part component participates in a slice e.g. to slice all parts or to utilize individual settings for parts components of an assembly . Thereafter the target view is displayed based on the defined slice lines and various options. Further once all of the slice cutting surfaces have been defined in the source view the user may opt to display a subset of such slice cutting surfaces in the target view.

In addition to the above embodiments of the invention may allow both a slice and volume cut section operation to display at the same time. Accordingly the user may slice components while executing a section view command. Such an operation provides for a variety of cuts where some components are sectioned volume cut some components are sliced zero depth cut and some components can be ignored. As described above the user also has the ability to slice all components. In such an operation the source view is created at step followed by the selection of one or more components on the source view to be sectioned sliced or none. At step a section target view is created and the section line s are created or pre existing sketches are selected as slice lines. The resulting slice view is displayed at step .

In addition when slicing components all bodies that are part of the component are processed. As part of the slice line defining at step the user input sketches are analyzed and valid sketches are processed. The valid sketches i.e. a 2D drawing may then be extruded to create a sheet body thereby resulting in a display of a 3D body that can contain one or more lumps . Alternatively if a slice is requested during a section view command a section tool body is created. During the section tool body creation front faces defined as the face that contains the user defined sketch curves are identified copied and made into a slice sheet body.

The sheet body is examined and a determination is made regarding which parts bodies of the 3D body can be cut. The bodies are subjected to a bounding box test that is essentially a box intersect test to determine if a slice tool bounding box i.e. a slice plane surface intersects an input body bounding box i.e. the extruded tool sheet body . The bodies that pass this box test are collected for a full Boolean intersection. In other words a first pass is performed to eliminate those bodies outside of a certain region i.e. those outside of the slice tool bounding box .

If the bounding boxes intersect the full Boolean operation i.e. intersection operation may be performed between the slice plane surface and the part. The points of intersection define the areas that will be displayed i.e. define the zero depth section of the sheet body . The naming of the various elements may also be performed to preserve the naming for later use by annotations e.g. dimensions .

This concludes the description of the preferred embodiment of the invention. The following describes some alternative embodiments for accomplishing the present invention. For example any type of computer such as a mainframe minicomputer or personal computer or computer configuration such as a timesharing mainframe local area network or standalone personal computer could be used with the present invention. Further in a network based environment a client and server may be utilized to undertake process different portions of claimed invention. For example a drawing may be stored on a server and a client may define a slice e.g. remotely that is displayed by another client the same client or by the server.

In summary embodiments of the invention provide the ability to create a zero depth series of slices that can be placed at any location the user desires across one view that can be reflected in a second view.

The foregoing description of the preferred embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

