---

title: Programmable logic device
abstract: A programmable logic device that verifies whether configuration data is stored correctly is provided. The programmable logic device includes a configuration memory storing configuration data input to a first wiring and a switch controlling conduction or non-conduction between a second wiring and a third wiring in accordance with the configuration data stored in the configuration memory. Further, whether the configuration data input to the first wiring agrees with configuration data actually stored in the configuration memory is verified by comparing the potential of the second wiring with the configuration data input to the first wiring.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08947121&OS=08947121&RS=08947121
owner: Semiconductor Energy Laboratory Co., Ltd.
number: 08947121
owner_city: Atsugi-shi, Kanagawa-ken
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140305
---
One embodiment of the present invention relates to semiconductor devices and programmable logic devices.

Programmable logic devices PLD have attracted attention in recent years. The internal logic circuit design of a PLD can be changed by a user after product shipment by controlling the on state or off state of a switch in accordance with configuration data stored in a configuration memory to change connection between logic elements see Patent Document 1 .

In Patent Document 1 whether configuration data is written to the configuration memory correctly and whether the configuration data is retained correctly while a programmable logic device operates are unclear. In view of this an object of one embodiment of the present invention is to verify whether configuration data is written correctly and whether configuration data is retained correctly. Another object of one embodiment of the present invention is to improve reliability reduce power consumption achieve high integration reduce the number of elements and or prevent malfunction for example. Another object of one embodiment of the present invention is to provide a semiconductor device with a novel structure.

One embodiment of the present invention includes a configuration memory storing configuration data input to a first wiring and a switch controlling conduction or non conduction between a second wiring and a third wiring in accordance with the configuration data stored in the configuration memory. Further whether the configuration data input to the first wiring agrees with configuration data actually stored in the configuration memory is verified by comparing the potential of the second wiring with the configuration data input to the first wiring.

In one embodiment of the present invention while the potential of the second wiring is compared with the configuration data input to the first wiring a predetermined potential is preferably supplied to the third wiring.

In one embodiment of the present invention it is preferable not to output an output from a logic element connected to the second wiring to the second wiring.

One embodiment of the present invention includes a memory circuit a switch a first circuit and a second circuit. The memory circuit has a function of storing configuration data input to a first wiring. The switch has a function of controlling conduction or non conduction between a second wiring and a third wiring in accordance with the configuration data stored in the memory circuit. The second circuit has a function of comparing the potential of the first wiring with the potential of the second wiring to output a signal based on the comparison result of the potential of the first wiring and the potential of the second wiring or has a function of detecting the potential of the second wiring to output a signal based on the potential of the second wiring.

In one embodiment of the present invention the memory circuit may include a transistor and the transistor may include an oxide semiconductor. One of a source and a drain of the transistor is electrically connected to the first wiring and the other of the source and the drain of the transistor is electrically connected to a control terminal of the switch.

In one embodiment of the present invention a circuit supplying a predetermined potential to the third wiring may be provided.

In one embodiment of the present invention a pull up circuit electrically connected to the second wiring may be provided.

In one embodiment of the present invention configuration data can be stored in a configuration memory and whether the configuration data is stored in the configuration memory correctly can be verified. Thus reliability can be improved.

Embodiments of the present invention will be described in detail below with reference to the drawings. Note that the present invention is not limited to the following description. It will be readily appreciated by those skilled in the art that modes and details of the present invention can be modified in various ways without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The present invention therefore should not be construed as being limited to the following description of the embodiments.

Note that a programmable logic device according to the present invention includes in its category a variety of semiconductor integrated circuits formed using semiconductor elements such as microprocessors image processing circuits controllers for semiconductor display devices digital signal processors DSP and microcontrollers. The semiconductor device according to the present invention includes in its category a variety of devices such as RF tags formed using any of the semiconductor integrated circuits and semiconductor display devices. The semiconductor display device includes in its category liquid crystal display devices light emitting devices in which a light emitting element typified by an organic light emitting element OLED is provided in each pixel electronic paper digital micromirror devices DMD plasma display panels PDP field emission displays FED and other semiconductor display devices in which semiconductor elements are included in driver circuits.

In this embodiment an example of a semiconductor device according to one embodiment of the present invention is described. The semiconductor device according to one embodiment of the present invention can be used in a programmable logic device hereinafter also referred to as a PLD .

Note that in this specification the term connection means electrical connection and corresponds to a state where current voltage or a potential can be supplied or transmitted. Accordingly a connection state does not always mean a direct connection state but includes an indirect connection state through a circuit element such as a wiring a resistor a diode or a transistor so that current voltage or a potential can be supplied or transmitted.

The cell has a function of controlling conduction or non conduction between the wiring IN and the wiring OUT. Specifically the cell has a function of storing the configuration data Vin response to the signal V. The cell also has a function of controlling the conduction or non conduction between the wiring IN and the wiring OUT in accordance with the stored configuration data V. Furthermore the cell has a function of bringing the wiring IN and the wiring OUT out of conduction regardless of the stored configuration data Vin response to the signal V.

The cell can include a memory circuit also referred to as a configuration memory a transistor and a transistor see . The memory circuit is connected to the wiring BLINE the wiring WLINE and a gate of the transistor . A first terminal a second terminal and the gate of the transistor are connected to the wiring IN a first terminal of the transistor and the memory circuit respectively. The first terminal a second terminal and a gate of the transistor are connected to the second terminal of the transistor the wiring OUT and the wiring CONTEXT respectively. The memory circuit has a function of storing the configuration data Vin response to the signal V. The transistor has a function of controlling conduction or non conduction between the wiring IN and the first terminal of the transistor in accordance with the configuration data Vstored in the memory circuit . The transistor has a function of controlling conduction or non conduction between the second terminal of the transistor and the wiring OUT in response to the signal V.

Note that in the cell in the transistor and the wiring CONTEXT may be omitted see . Thus the number of elements included in the cell can be reduced so that high integration can be achieved. In the case where the transistor and the wiring CONTEXT are omitted the second terminal of the transistor is connected to the wiring OUT. The transistor has a function of controlling the conduction or non conduction between the wiring IN and the wiring OUT in accordance with the configuration data Vstored in the memory circuit .

Note that in the cell in the transistor may be provided between the wiring IN and the first terminal of the transistor see . Thus noise generated in the wiring OUT due to the signal Vcan be reduced. Accordingly malfunction of a logic element or the like that is connected to the wiring OUT can be prevented. In the case where the transistor is provided between the wiring IN and the first terminal of the transistor the first terminal of the transistor the second terminal of the transistor and the second terminal of the transistor are connected to the wiring IN the first terminal of the transistor and the wiring OUT respectively. The transistor has a function of controlling conduction or non conduction between the wiring IN and the first terminal of the transistor in response to the signal V. The transistor has a function of controlling conduction or non conduction between the second terminal of the transistor and the wiring OUT in accordance with the configuration data Vstored in the memory circuit .

Note that a first terminal and a second terminal of a transistor mean one of a source and a drain and the other of the source and the drain respectively. A source of a transistor means a source region that is part of an active layer or a source electrode that is connected to an active layer. Similarly a drain of a transistor means a drain region that is part of an active layer or a drain electrode that is connected to an active layer. A gate means a gate electrode. The terms source and drain of a transistor interchange with each other depending on the conductivity type of the transistor or levels of potentials applied to terminals. In general in an n channel transistor a terminal to which a low potential is applied is called a source and a terminal to which a high potential is applied is called a drain. On the other hand in a p channel transistor a terminal to which a low potential is applied is called a drain and a terminal to which a high potential is applied is called a source.

The memory circuit can include a transistor and a capacitor see . When the memory circuit has such a structure the number of elements can be reduced so that high integration can be achieved. A first terminal a second terminal and a gate of the transistor are connected to the wiring BLINE the gate of the transistor and the wiring WLINE respectively. A first electrode and a second electrode of the capacitor are connected to the gate of the transistor and a wiring supplied with a predetermined potential respectively. The transistor has a function of controlling conduction or non conduction between the wiring BLINE and the gate of the transistor in response to the signal V. The capacitor has a function of holding a potential difference between the gate of the transistor and the wiring to which the second electrode of the capacitor is connected.

Note that in the memory circuit in the capacitor may be omitted. Thus the number of elements can be further reduced so that high integration can be achieved.

Note that in the memory circuit in the capacitor may be replaced with an inverter circuit and an inverter circuit see . Accordingly a circuit structure with high resistance to noise can be formed. An input terminal of the inverter circuit is connected to the second terminal of the transistor the gate of the transistor and an output terminal of the inverter circuit . An output terminal of the inverter circuit is connected to an input terminal of the inverter circuit . Note that the gate of the transistor may be connected to the output terminal of the inverter circuit and the input terminal of the inverter circuit . As each of the inverter circuit and the inverter circuit a circuit functioning as an inverter circuit i.e. a circuit having functions of inverting an input signal and outputting the inverted signal e.g. a NAND circuit a NOR circuit or a clocked inverter circuit may be used.

Note that in the memory circuit in and the off state current of the transistor is preferably extremely low because electric charge held in the gate of the transistor or the capacitor can be prevented from leaking through the transistor . Consequently the configuration data Vcan be retained for a long time. A transistor can have extremely low off state current when the transistor includes in a channel formation region a film of a semiconductor whose band gap is wider than that of silicon and whose intrinsic carrier density is lower than that of silicon. Examples of such a semiconductor are an oxide semiconductor silicon carbide and gallium nitride which have a band gap approximately 2 or more times that of silicon.

Note that in the memory circuit in and W L W and L indicate channel width and channel length respectively of the transistor is preferably larger than that of the transistor and or the transistor because the configuration data Vcan be stored rapidly even when the transistor has low mobility.

The logic element is formed using a flip flop and or a look up table for example. An output of the logic element is input to another logic element through the cell . The logic element is formed using a flip flop that loads data in synchronization with the rising edge of a clock signal Vinput from a wiring CK i.e. a so called edge sensitive latch see .

The enable buffer has a function of controlling whether to output an output signal of the logic element including a signal based on the output signal to the wiring IN in response to the enable signal V. In the case where the output signal of the logic element is not output to the wiring IN the enable buffer has a function of bringing its output into high impedance. The enable buffer can be a circuit having a function of bringing its output into high impedance e.g. a switch such as an analog switch a three state buffer a clocked inverter or a circuit including any one of these .

Note that the logic element may have a function of bringing its output into high impedance. In that case the enable buffer may be omitted.

The reset circuit has a function of initializing the potential of the wiring OUT. Specifically the reset circuit has a function of controlling whether to supply a potential Vto the wiring OUT in response to the reset signal V. The potential Vis preferably one of a potential for making the potential of the wiring OUT low or a potential for making the potential of the wiring OUT high.

A transistor can be used as the reset circuit see . A first terminal a second terminal and a gate of the transistor are connected to the wiring OUT a wiring and the wiring INIT respectively. The transistor has a function of controlling conduction or non conduction between the wiring OUT and the wiring to which the second terminal of the transistor is connected in response to the reset signal V. The potential Vis supplied to the wiring to which the second terminal of the transistor is connected.

Note that by inputting the enable signal Vor a signal based on the enable signal Vto the wiring INIT the enable signal Vor the signal based on the enable signal Vmay control the reset circuit . Thus the kind of signal can be reduced.

Note that the second electrode of the capacitor may be connected to the second terminal of the transistor . Thus the number of wirings can be reduced.

Note that the transistor may have current supply capability for example for making the potential of the wiring OUT or the wiring IN low. Thus W L of the transistor is preferably smaller than that of the transistor the transistor and or the transistor . Accordingly high integration can be achieved.

The read circuit has functions of detecting the potential of the wiring IN and outputting the signal Vbased on the detection result to the wiring COMP. For example the read circuit has functions of comparing the potential of the wiring IN with the potential of the wiring BLINE and outputting the signal Vbased on the comparison result to the wiring COMP. Alternatively the read circuit has functions of determining whether the potential of the wiring IN is high or low and outputting the signal Vbased on the determination result to the wiring COMP. In that case the read circuit is not necessarily connected to the wiring BLINE.

An exclusive OR circuit can be used as the read circuit see . A first input terminal a second input terminal and an output terminal of the exclusive OR circuit are connected to the wiring IN the wiring BLINE and the wiring COMP respectively. In the case where the potential of the wiring IN and the configuration data Vhave different high or low levels the exclusive OR circuit outputs the high level signal Vto the wiring COMP. In the case where the potential of the wiring IN and the configuration data Vhave the same high or low level the exclusive OR circuit outputs the low level signal Vto the wiring COMP. Note that the read circuit is not limited to the exclusive OR circuit and the read circuit may be a known read circuit such as a sense amplifier.

Here the semiconductor device in may include a circuit that is connected to the wiring IN see . As the circuit a circuit having a function of pulling up the wiring IN to a high level a circuit having a function of pulling down the wiring IN to a low level a circuit having a function of supplying a predetermined potential to the wiring IN or the like can be used. Further the potential supplied from the circuit to the wiring IN is preferably different from the potential V. For example in the case where the potential Vmakes the potential of the wiring OUT low the potential supplied from the circuit to the wiring IN preferably makes the potential of the wiring IN high whereas in the case where the potential Vmakes the potential of the wiring OUT high the potential supplied from the circuit to the wiring IN preferably makes the potential of the wiring IN low.

Further the semiconductor device in may include a latch circuit that is connected to the wiring OUT see . The latch circuit has functions of latching and holding the potential of the wiring OUT. When the semiconductor device in includes the latch circuit the potential of the wiring OUT can be kept constant even if the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are out of conduction. Accordingly the semiconductor device can have high resistance to noise.

The latch circuit can include a transistor and an inverter circuit see . A first terminal and a second terminal of the transistor are connected to the wiring OUT and a wiring to which a predetermined potential is supplied respectively. An input terminal and an output terminal of the inverter circuit are connected to the wiring OUT and a gate of the transistor respectively. The transistor has a function of controlling conduction or non conduction between the wiring OUT and the wiring to which the second terminal of the transistor is connected in response to an output signal of the inverter circuit . The inverter circuit has a function of outputting a signal obtained by inversion of the potential of the wiring OUT to the gate of the transistor . For example the transistor is a p channel transistor and a potential for making the potential of the wiring OUT high is supplied to the wiring to which the second terminal of the transistor is connected. In that case when the potential of the wiring OUT is set high the inverter circuit outputs a low level signal to the gate of the transistor . Thus the transistor is turned on so that the potential for making the potential of the wiring OUT high is supplied to the wiring OUT through the transistor .

Note that as a matter of convenience in the cell or the memory circuit the configuration data Vis stored when the signal Vis high and the configuration data Vis not stored when the signal Vis low. Specifically the transistor is turned on when the signal Vis high and the transistor is turned off when the signal Vis low. Further in the cell the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are brought into conduction when the signal Vis high and the configuration data Vstored in the cell is high the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are brought out of conduction when the signal Vis high and the configuration data Vstored in the cell is low and the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are brought out of conduction regardless of the configuration data Vstored in the cell when the signal Vis low. Specifically the transistor is turned on when the configuration data Vstored in the memory circuit is high and the transistor is turned off when the configuration data Vstored in the memory circuit is low. The transistor is turned on when the signal Vis high and the transistor is turned off when the signal Vis low. In the enable buffer an output signal of the logic element is output to the wiring IN through the enable buffer when the enable signal Vis high and an output signal of the logic element is not output to the wiring IN and an output from the enable buffer has high impedance when the enable signal Vis low. In the reset circuit a potential Vis supplied to the wiring OUT when the reset signal Vis high and the potential Vis not supplied to the wiring OUT when the reset signal Vis low. The potential Vmakes the potential of the wiring OUT low. The wiring IN is pulled up to a high level.

First in the period from the times t to t the reset signal Vis set high so that the potential Vis supplied from the reset circuit to the wiring OUT. In addition the enable signal Vis set low so that the output of the enable buffer has high impedance. In a period from times ta to tb in the period from the times t to t the signal Vis set high so that the configuration data Vis stored in the cell . Specifically the transistor is turned on and the configuration data Vis input to the gate of the transistor and the first electrode of the capacitor . Further the signal Vis set high. Thus the conduction or non conduction between the wiring IN and the wiring OUT is controlled in accordance with the configuration data Vstored in the cell . Specifically the transistor is turned on so that the conduction or non conduction between the wiring IN and the wiring OUT is controlled in accordance with the on state or off state of the transistor . When the configuration data Vstored in the cell is high the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are brought into conduction. Specifically the transistor and the transistor are both turned on so that the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are brought into conduction. In that case the potential Vsupplied to the wiring OUT is supplied to the wiring IN through the cell thus the potential of the wiring IN is set low. On the other hand when the configuration data Vstored in the cell is low the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are brought out of conduction. Specifically the transistor is turned on but the transistor is turned off thus the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are brought out of conduction. In that case the potential Vis not supplied to the wiring IN so that the wiring IN becomes floating. Thus when the wiring IN is pulled up to a high level the potential of the wiring IN is set high.

When the configuration data Vinput to the wiring BLINE and the configuration data Vstored in the cell are both high the potential of the wiring IN is set low thus the signal Voutput from the read circuit to the wiring COMP is set high. On the other hand when the configuration data Vinput to the wiring BLINE and the configuration data Vstored in the cell are both low the potential of the wiring IN is set high thus the signal Voutput from the read circuit to the wiring COMP is set high.

Here when the signal Vis set high it indicates that the configuration data Vinput to the wiring BLINE agrees with the configuration data Vstored in the cell actually. In other words it indicates that the configuration data Vis stored in the cell correctly. In contrast when the signal Vis set low it indicates that the configuration data Vis not stored in the cell correctly. For example the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are brought out of conduction though the configuration data Vinput to the wiring BLINE is high. In that case the potential Vis not supplied to the wiring IN thus the potential of the wiring IN is set high. Accordingly the signal Vis set low. Further the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are brought into conduction though the configuration data Vinput to the wiring BLINE is low. In that case the potential Vis input to the wiring IN through the cell thus the potential of the wiring IN is set low. Consequently the signal Vis set low.

Note that in the period from the times t to t supply of the clock signal Vto the wiring CK is preferably stopped. Consequently power consumption can be reduced.

Next after the time t the reset signal Vis set low thus the potential Vis not supplied to the wiring OUT. When the enable signal Vis set high the output signal of the logic element is output from the enable buffer to the wiring IN. In addition the signal Vis set low thus the configuration data Vis not stored in the cell . Note that the configuration data Vstored in the period from the times t to t is retained in the cell . Specifically the transistor is turned off so that the gate of the transistor and the first electrode of the capacitor become floating. Note that electric charge based on the configuration data Vinput in the period from the times t to t is stored in the gate capacitance of the transistor and the capacitor thus the potentials of the gate of the transistor and the first electrode of the capacitor are based on the configuration data Vinput in the period from the times t to t. Further the signal Vis set high. Thus the conduction or non conduction between the wiring IN and the wiring OUT is controlled in accordance with the configuration data Vstored in the cell in the period from the times t to t. Specifically the transistor is turned on so that the conduction or non conduction between the wiring IN and the wiring OUT is controlled in accordance with the on state or off state of the transistor . When the configuration data Vstored in the cell in the period from the times t to t is high the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are brought into conduction. Specifically the transistor and the transistor are both turned on so that the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are brought into conduction. In that case the signal output from the logic element to the wiring IN is output to the wiring OUT through the cell . On the other hand when the configuration data Vstored in the cell in the period from the times t to t is low the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are brought out of conduction. Specifically the transistor is turned on but the transistor is turned off thus the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are brought out of conduction. In that case the signal output from the logic element to the wiring IN is not output to the wiring OUT.

As described above the conduction or non conduction between the wiring IN and the wiring OUT can be controlled in accordance with the configuration data Vstored in the cell . In other words whether to output the output signal of the logic element to the wiring OUT can be controlled. Further whether the configuration data Vis stored in the cell correctly when it is stored in the cell can be checked easily. Thus reliability can be improved.

Note that while the semiconductor device operates another configuration data Vmay be stored in the cell to change the conduction or non conduction between the wiring IN and the wiring OUT. The operation of the semiconductor device in the case of storing another configuration data Vin the cell in a period from times tc to td after the time t is described below. The period from the times tc to td is a period between two consecutive rising edges of the clock signal V. Note that in the timing chart of the low level configuration data Vis stored in the cell in the period from the times tc to td.

In the period from the times tc to td the reset signal Vis set high so that the potential Vis supplied from the reset circuit to the wiring OUT. In addition the enable signal Vis set low so that the output of the enable buffer has high impedance. In addition the signal Vis set high so that the configuration data Vis stored in the cell . Further the signal Vis set high. Thus the conduction or non conduction between the wiring IN and the wiring OUT is controlled in accordance with the configuration data Vstored in the cell . When the configuration data Vstored in the cell is high the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are brought into conduction. In that case the potential Vsupplied to the wiring OUT is supplied to the wiring IN through the cell thus the potential of the wiring IN is set low. On the other hand when the configuration data Vstored in the cell is low the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are brought out of conduction. In that case the potential Vis not supplied to the wiring IN so that the wiring IN becomes floating. Thus when the wiring IN is pulled up to a high level the potential of the wiring IN is set high.

When the configuration data Vinput to the wiring BLINE and the configuration data Vstored in the cell are both high the potential of the wiring IN is set low thus the signal Voutput from the read circuit to the wiring COMP is set high. On the other hand when the configuration data Vinput to the wiring BLINE and the configuration data Vstored in the cell are both low the potential of the wiring IN is set high thus the signal Voutput from the read circuit to the wiring COMP is set high.

Next after the time td the reset signal Vis set low thus the potential Vis not supplied to the wiring OUT. When the enable signal Vis set high the output signal of the logic element is output from the enable buffer to the wiring IN. In addition the signal Vis set low thus the configuration data Vis not stored in the cell . Note that the configuration data Vstored in the period from the times tc to td is retained in the cell . Further the signal Vis set high. Thus the conduction or non conduction between the wiring IN and the wiring OUT is controlled in accordance with the configuration data Vstored in the cell in the period from the times tc to td. When the configuration data Vstored in the cell in the period from the times tc to td is high the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are brought into conduction. In that case the signal output from the logic element to the wiring IN is output to the wiring OUT through the cell . On the other hand when the configuration data Vstored in the cell in the period from the times tc to td is low the wiring IN and the wiring OUT are brought out of conduction. In that case the signal output from the logic element to the wiring IN is not output to the wiring OUT.

As described above even while the semiconductor device operates another configuration data Vcan be stored in the cell and whether the configuration data Vis stored in the cell correctly can be checked easily.

In this embodiment an example of a PLD including the semiconductor device in Embodiment 1 is described.

The cell portion has a function of controlling conduction or non conduction between the wirings IN 1 to IN n and the wiring OUT. Specifically the cell portion includes cells in m rows and n columns hereinafter also referred to as cells 1 1 to see . Each of the cells 1 1 to corresponds to the cell in Embodiment 1 and has a function similar to that of the cell in Embodiment 1. The cell in an i th i is any one of 1 to m row and a j th j is any one of 1 to n column is described as an example. The cell is connected to the wiring IN j the wiring BLINE j the wiring CONTEXT i the wiring WLINE i and the wiring OUT. In addition the cell has a function of controlling conduction or non conduction between the wiring IN j and the wiring OUT.

Note that in the case where the cell does not include the transistor for example see the cells 1 1 to may be provided in only one row and the wirings CONTEXT 1 to CONTEXT m and the driver circuit may be omitted.

Note that in the case where the cell includes the capacitor for example see the second electrode of the capacitor may be connected to the wiring WLINE in another row or the wiring CONTEXT in another row. Thus the number of wirings can be reduced. The cells in the i th row are described as an example. In the cells 1 to the second electrode of the capacitor may be connected to any one of the wirings WLINE 1 to WLINE i 1 any one of the wirings WLINE i 1 to WLINE m any one of the wirings CONTEXT 1 to CONTEXT i 1 or any one of the wirings CONTEXT i 1 to CONTEXT m . Note that in the case where the second electrode of the capacitor is connected to the wiring WLINE in another row or the wiring CONTEXT in another row the configuration data Vretained in the memory circuit might be inverted by capacitive coupling. However in the case where the configuration data Vretained in the memory circuit is inverted by capacitive coupling the cell does not malfunction because at least the transistor is off. Further when the transistor is on the cell does not malfunction because the configuration data Vretained in the memory circuit is recovered by returning the potential of the wiring WLINE or the wiring CONTEXT to which the second electrode of the capacitor is connected to the potential at the time of writing the configuration data V.

The logic element portion includes n logic elements hereinafter also referred to as logic elements 1 to and n enable buffers hereinafter also referred to as enable buffers 1 to see . Each of the logic elements 1 to corresponds to the logic element in Embodiment 1 and has a function similar to that of the logic element in Embodiment 1. Each of the enable buffers 1 to corresponds to the enable buffer in Embodiment 1 and has a function similar to that of the enable buffer in Embodiment 1. The logic element and the enable buffer in the j th column are described as an example. The logic element is connected to the wiring IN j through the enable buffer . The enable buffer is connected to the logic element the wiring IN j and the wiring EN.

The read portion includes n read circuits hereinafter also referred to as read circuits 1 to see . Each of the read circuits 1 to corresponds to the read circuit in Embodiment 1 and has a function similar to that of the read circuit in Embodiment 1. The read circuit in the j th column is described as an example. The read circuit is connected to the wiring IN j the wiring BLINE j and the wiring COMP j .

Note that in the read portion all the signals V 1 to V n may be output outside. In that case whether the configuration data Vis stored correctly in each of the cells can be detected thus the cell that does not store the configuration data Vcorrectly can be specified easily.

Note that in the read portion ANDs of the signals V 1 to V n may be output. In that case whether the configuration data Vis stored correctly in all the cells in each row can be detected and the number of signals output outside can be reduced drastically.

The write driver has a function of outputting the configuration data V 1 to V n to the wirings BLINE 1 to BLINE n respectively. The write driver can include a shift register.

The driver circuit has a function of outputting the signals V 1 to V m to the wirings CONTEXT 1 to CONTEXT m respectively. The driver circuit can include a shift register or a decoder.

The driver circuit has a function of outputting the signals V 1 to V m to the wirings WLINE 1 to WLINE m respectively. The driver circuit can include a shift register or a decoder.

First in the period from the times t to t the reset signal Vis set high so that the potential Vis supplied from the reset circuit to the wiring OUT.

By setting the signals V 1 to V m and the signals V 1 to V m high sequentially from the first row the cells 1 1 to are selected row by row. The cells in the i 1 th row to the i 1 th row are described as an example. First the signal V i 1 and the signal V i 1 are set high so that the cells 1 1 to 1 n are selected. After that the signal V i 1 and the signal V i 1 are set low and the signal V i and the signal V i are set high so that the cells 1 to are selected. Then the signal V i and the signal V i are set low and the signal V i 1 and the signal V i 1 are set high so that the cells 1 1 to 1 n are selected.

Note that among the signals V 1 to V m and the signals V 1 to V m only signals for rows in which rewriting of the configuration data Vis needed may be set high.

In the cells in the selected row the configuration data V 1 to V n are stored and the conduction or non conduction between the wirings IN 1 to IN n and the wiring OUT is controlled in accordance with the stored configuration data V 1 to V n . The cell in the j th column in the case of selecting the i th row is described as an example. In the cell the configuration data V j is stored and the conduction or non conduction between the wiring IN j and the wiring OUT is controlled in accordance with the stored configuration data V j . When the configuration data V j stored in the cell is high the wiring IN j and the wiring OUT are brought into conduction. In that case the potential Vis supplied to the wiring IN j through the cell thus the potential of the wiring IN j is set low. On the other hand when the configuration data V j stored in the cell is low the wiring IN j and the wiring OUT are brought out of conduction. In that case the potential Vis not supplied to the wiring IN j so that the wiring IN j becomes floating. Thus when the wiring IN j is pulled up to a high level the potential of the wiring IN j is set high.

The signals V 1 to V n output from the read circuits 1 to to the wirings COMP 1 to COMP n are determined in accordance with the potentials of the wirings IN 1 to IN n and the configuration data V 1 to V n input to the wirings BLINE 1 to BLINE n . The cell in the j th column in the case of selecting the i th row is described as an example. When the configuration data Vinput to the wiring BLINE j and the configuration data Vstored in the cell are both high the potential of the wiring IN j is set low. Thus the signal V j output from the read circuit to the wiring COMP j is set high. On the other hand when the configuration data Vinput to the wiring BLINE j and the configuration data Vstored in the cell are both low the potential of the wiring IN j is set high. Thus the signal V j output from the read circuit to the wiring COMP j is set high.

Here when the signals V 1 to V n are high it indicates that the configuration data V 1 to V n are stored in the cells in the selected row correctly. The cell in the j th column in the case of selecting the i th row is described as an example. When the signal V j is high it indicates that the configuration data V j is stored in the cell correctly.

Note that in the case where the ANDs of the signals V 1 to V n are output if outputs of the ANDs are high it indicates that the configuration data Vis stored in all the cells in the selected row correctly. On the other hand if the outputs of the ANDs are low it indicates that the configuration data Vis not stored in at least one of the cells in the selected row correctly.

Next after the time t the reset signal Vis set low thus the potential Vis not supplied to the wiring OUT.

When the enable signal Vis set high the output signals of the logic elements 1 to are output from the enable buffers 1 to to the wirings IN 1 to IN n respectively. The enable buffer in the j th column is described as an example. The output signal of the logic element is output from the enable buffer to the wiring IN j .

The signals V 1 to V m are set low thus the configuration data Vis not stored in the cells 1 1 to . Note that the configuration data Vstored in the period from the times t to t is retained in the cells 1 1 to . The cell in the i th row and the j th column is described as an example. The configuration data V j stored in the period from the times t to t is retained in the cell 

When any one of the signals V 1 to V m is set high the cells 1 1 to in any one of the rows are selected. The cells in the i th row are described as an example. The signal V i is set high so that the cells 1 to are selected.

Note that the order of setting the signals V 1 to V m high may be set as appropriate depending on a circuit constructed by the PLD.

In the cells in the selected row the conduction or non conduction between the wirings IN 1 to IN n and the wiring OUT is controlled in accordance with the configuration data Vstored in the period from the times t to t. The cell in the j th column in the case of selecting the i th row is described as an example. In the cell the conduction or non conduction between the wiring IN j and the wiring OUT is controlled in accordance with the configuration data V j stored in the period from the times t to t. When the configuration data V j stored in the cell is high the wiring IN j and the wiring OUT are brought into conduction. In that case the signal output from the logic element to the wiring IN j is output to the wiring OUT through the cell . On the other hand when the configuration data V j stored in the cell is low the wiring IN j and the wiring OUT are brought out of conduction. In that case the signal output from the logic element to the wiring IN j is not output to the wiring OUT.

As described above the connection between the wirings IN 1 to IN n and the wiring OUT can be set in accordance with the configuration data Vstored in the cells 1 1 to . In particular the connection between the wirings IN 1 to IN n and the wiring OUT can be set in m different ways by the signals V 1 to V m . Further whether the configuration data Vis stored in the cells 1 1 to correctly when it is stored in the cells 1 1 to can be checked easily. Thus reliability can be improved.

Note that while the PLD operates another configuration data Vmay be stored in the cell to change the connection between the wirings IN 1 to IN n and the wiring OUT. In other words while the PLD operates the circuit constructed by the PLD may be changed. The operation of the PLD in the case of storing another configuration data Vin the cell in the period from the times tc to td after the time t is described below.

In the period from the times tc to td the reset signal Vis set high so that the potential Vis supplied from the reset circuit to the wiring OUT.

By setting any one of the signals V 1 to V m and any one of the signals V 1 to V m high the cells in any one of the rows are selected. The cells in the i th row are described as an example. The signal V i and the signal V i are set high so that the cells 1 to are selected.

In the cells in the selected row the configuration data V 1 to V n are stored and the conduction or non conduction between the wirings IN 1 to IN n and the wiring OUT is controlled in accordance with the stored configuration data V 1 to V n . The cell in the j th column in the case of selecting the i th row is described as an example. In the cell the configuration data V j is stored and the conduction or non conduction between the wiring IN j and the wiring OUT is controlled in accordance with the stored configuration data V j . When the configuration data V j stored in the cell is high the wiring IN j and the wiring OUT are brought into conduction. In that case the potential Vis supplied to the wiring IN j through the cell thus the potential of the wiring IN j is set low. On the other hand when the configuration data V j stored in the cell is low the wiring IN j and the wiring OUT are brought out of conduction. In that case the potential Vis not supplied to the wiring IN j so that the wiring IN j becomes floating. Thus when the wiring IN j is pulled up to a high level the potential of the wiring IN j is set high.

The signals V 1 to V n output from the read circuits 1 to to the wirings COMP 1 to COMP n are determined in accordance with the potentials of the wirings IN 1 to IN n and the configuration data V 1 to V n input to the wirings BLINE 1 to BLINE n . The cell in the j th column in the case of selecting the i th row is described as an example. When the configuration data Vinput to the wiring BLINE j and the configuration data Vstored in the cell are both high the potential of the wiring IN j is set low. Thus the signal V j output from the read circuit to the wiring COMP j is set high. On the other hand when the configuration data Vinput to the wiring BLINE j and the configuration data Vstored in the cell are both low the potential of the wiring IN j is set high. Thus the signal V j output from the read circuit to the wiring COMP j is set high.

As described above even while the PLD operates another configuration data Vcan be stored in the cell and whether the configuration data Vis stored in the cell correctly can be checked easily.

In this embodiment an oxide semiconductor that can be used for a semiconductor layer of a transistor is described.

An oxide semiconductor used for a channel formation region in the semiconductor layer of the transistor preferably contains at least indium In or zinc Zn . In particular In and Zn are preferably contained. A stabilizer for strongly bonding oxygen is preferably contained in addition to In and Zn. As a stabilizer at least one of gallium Ga tin Sn zirconium Zr hafnium Hf and aluminum Al may be contained. As another stabilizer one or more kinds of lanthanoid such as lanthanum La cerium Ce praseodymium Pr neodymium Nd samarium Sm europium Eu gadolinium Gd terbium Tb dysprosium Dy holmium Ho erbium Er thulium Tm ytterbium Yb and lutetium Lu may be contained.

As the oxide semiconductor used for the semiconductor layer of the transistor for example any of the following can be used indium oxide tin oxide zinc oxide an In Zn based oxide a Sn Zn based oxide an Al Zn based oxide a Zn Mg based oxide a Sn Mg based oxide an In Mg based oxide an In Ga based oxide an In Ga Zn based oxide also referred to as IGZO an In Al Zn based oxide an In Sn Zn based oxide a Sn Ga Zn based oxide an Al Ga Zn based oxide a Sn Al Zn based oxide an In Hf Zn based oxide an In Zr Zn based oxide an In Ti Zn based oxide an In Sc Zn based oxide an In Y Zn based oxide an In La Zn based oxide an In Ce Zn based oxide an In Pr Zn based oxide an In Nd Zn based oxide an In Sm Zn based oxide an In Eu Zn based oxide an In Gd Zn based oxide an In Tb Zn based oxide an In Dy Zn based oxide an In Ho Zn based oxide an In Er Zn based oxide an In Tm Zn based oxide an In Yb Zn based oxide an In Lu Zn based oxide an In Sn Ga Zn based oxide an In Hf Ga Zn based oxide an In Al Ga Zn based oxide an In Sn Al Zn based oxide an In Sn Hf Zn based oxide and an In Hf Al Zn based oxide.

For example an In Ga Zn based oxide with an atomic ratio of In Ga Zn 1 1 1 In Ga Zn 3 1 2 or In Ga Zn 2 1 3 or an oxide whose composition is in the neighborhood of the above composition is preferably used.

When an oxide semiconductor film included in the semiconductor layer contains a large amount of hydrogen hydrogen and the oxide semiconductor are bonded to each other so that part of hydrogen serves as a donor and causes an electron carrier . As a result the threshold voltage of the transistor is shifted in a negative direction. Thus it is preferable that after formation of the oxide semiconductor film dehydration treatment dehydrogenation treatment be performed to remove hydrogen or moisture from the oxide semiconductor film so that the oxide semiconductor film is highly purified to contain impurities as little as possible.

Note that oxygen in the oxide semiconductor film is reduced by the dehydration treatment dehydrogenation treatment in some cases. Thus it is preferable that oxygen be added to the oxide semiconductor film to fill oxygen vacancies increased by the dehydration treatment dehydrogenation treatment . In this specification and the like supplying oxygen to an oxide semiconductor film is expressed as oxygen adding treatment and treatment for making the oxygen content of an oxide semiconductor film be in excess of that in the stoichiometric composition is expressed as treatment for making an oxygen excess state in some cases.

In this manner hydrogen or moisture is removed from the oxide semiconductor film by dehydration treatment dehydrogenation treatment and oxygen vacancies are filled by oxygen adding treatment so that the oxide semiconductor film can be an intrinsic i type or substantially intrinsic oxide semiconductor film. Note that the substantially intrinsic oxide semiconductor film means an oxide semiconductor film that contains extremely few close to zero carriers derived from a donor and has a carrier density of lower than or equal to 1 10 cm lower than or equal to 1 10 cm lower than or equal to 1 10 cm lower than or equal to 1 10 cm or lower than or equal to 1 10 cm.

In this manner the transistor including an intrinsic i type or substantially intrinsic i type oxide semiconductor film can have extremely favorable off state current characteristics. For example the drain current at the time when the transistor including an oxide semiconductor film is off can be less than or equal to 1 10A preferably less than or equal to 1 10A and more preferably 1 10A at room temperature approximately 25 C. or less than or equal to 1 10A preferably 1 10A more preferably less than or equal to 1 10A at 85 C. The off state of a transistor refers to a state where gate voltage is much lower than the threshold voltage in an n channel transistor. Specifically when the gate voltage is lower than the threshold voltage by 1 V or more 2 V or more or 3 V or more the transistor is off.

An oxide semiconductor film is roughly classified into a single crystal oxide semiconductor film and a non single crystal oxide semiconductor film. The non single crystal oxide semiconductor film means any of an amorphous oxide semiconductor film a microcrystalline oxide semiconductor film a polycrystalline oxide semiconductor film a c axis aligned crystalline oxide semiconductor CAAC OS film and the like.

The amorphous oxide semiconductor film has disordered atomic arrangement and no crystalline component. A typical example of the amorphous oxide semiconductor film is an oxide semiconductor film in which no crystal part exists even in a microscopic region and the whole of the film is amorphous.

The microcrystalline oxide semiconductor film includes a microcrystal also referred to as nanocrystal of greater than or equal to 1 nm and less than 10 nm for example. Thus the microcrystalline oxide semiconductor film has higher degree of atomic order than the amorphous oxide semiconductor film. Hence the density of defect states of the microcrystalline oxide semiconductor film is lower than that of the amorphous oxide semiconductor film.

The CAAC OS film is one of oxide semiconductor films including a plurality of crystal parts and most of the crystal parts each fit into a cube whose one side is less than 100 nm. Thus there is a case where a crystal part included in the CAAC OS film fits into a cube whose one side is less than 10 nm less than 5 nm or less than 3 nm. The density of defect states of the CAAC OS film is lower than that of the microcrystalline oxide semiconductor film. The CAAC OS film is described in detail below.

In a transmission electron microscope TEM image of the CAAC OS film a boundary between crystal parts that is a grain boundary is not clearly observed. Thus in the CAAC OS film a reduction in electron mobility due to the grain boundary is less likely to occur.

According to the TEM image of the CAAC OS film observed in a direction substantially parallel to a sample surface cross sectional TEM image metal atoms are arranged in a layered manner in the crystal parts. Each metal atom layer has a morphology reflected by a surface over which the CAAC OS film is formed hereinafter a surface over which the CAAC OS film is formed is referred to as a formation surface or a top surface of the CAAC OS film and is arranged in parallel to the formation surface or the top surface of the CAAC OS film.

On the other hand according to the TEM image of the CAAC OS film observed in a direction substantially perpendicular to the sample surface planar TEM image metal atoms are arranged in a triangular or hexagonal configuration in the crystal parts. However there is no regularity of arrangement of metal atoms between different crystal parts.

From the results of the cross sectional TEM image and the planar TEM image alignment is found in the crystal parts in the CAAC OS film.

A CAAC OS film is subjected to structural analysis with an X ray diffraction XRD apparatus. For example when the CAAC OS film including an InGaZnOcrystal is analyzed by an out of plane method a peak appears frequently when the diffraction angle 2 is around 31 . This peak is derived from the 009 plane of the InGaZnOcrystal which indicates that crystals in the CAAC OS film have c axis alignment and that the c axes are aligned in a direction substantially perpendicular to the formation surface or the top surface of the CAAC OS film.

On the other hand when the CAAC OS film is analyzed by an in plane method in which an X ray enters a sample in a direction substantially perpendicular to the c axis a peak appears frequently when 2 is around 56 . This peak is derived from the 110 plane of the InGaZnOcrystal. Here analysis scan is performed under conditions where the sample is rotated around a normal vector of a sample surface as an axis axis with 2 fixed at around 56 . In the case where the sample is a single crystal oxide semiconductor film of InGaZnO six peaks appear. The six peaks are derived from crystal planes equivalent to the 110 plane. On the other hand in the case of a CAAC OS film a peak is not clearly observed even when scan is performed with 2 fixed at around 56 .

According to the above results in the CAAC OS film having c axis alignment while the directions of a axes and b axes are different between crystal parts the c axes are aligned in a direction parallel to a normal vector of a formation surface or a normal vector of a top surface. Thus each metal atom layer which is arranged in a layered manner and observed in the cross sectional TEM image corresponds to a plane parallel to the a b plane of the crystal.

Note that the crystal part is formed concurrently with deposition of the CAAC OS film or is formed through crystallization treatment such as heat treatment. As described above the c axis of the crystal is aligned in a direction parallel to a normal vector of a formation surface or a normal vector of a top surface. Thus for example in the case where the shape of the CAAC OS film is changed by etching or the like the c axis might not be necessarily parallel to a normal vector of a formation surface or a normal vector of a top surface of the CAAC OS film.

Further the crystallinity in the CAAC OS film is not necessarily uniform. For example in the case where crystal growth leading to the CAAC OS film occurs from the vicinity of the top surface of the film the crystallinity in the vicinity of the top surface is higher than that in the vicinity of the formation surface in some cases. Further when an impurity is added to the CAAC OS film the crystallinity in a region to which the impurity is added is changed and the crystallinity in the CAAC OS film varies depending on regions.

Note that when the CAAC OS film with an InGaZnOcrystal is analyzed by an out of plane method a peak of 2 may also be observed at around 36 in addition to the peak of 2 at around 31 . The peak of 2 at around 36 indicates that a crystal having no c axis alignment is included in part of the CAAC OS film. It is preferable that in the CAAC OS film a peak of 2 appear at around 31 and a peak of 2 do not appear at around 36 .

In a transistor including the CAAC OS film changes in electrical characteristics of the transistor due to irradiation with visible light or ultraviolet light are small. Thus the transistor has high reliability.

Note that an oxide semiconductor film may be a stacked film including two or more films of an amorphous oxide semiconductor film a microcrystalline oxide semiconductor film and a CAAC OS film for example.

In this specification the term parallel indicates that an angle formed between two straight lines is 10 to 100 and accordingly includes the case where the angle is 5 to 5 . In addition the term perpendicular indicates that an angle formed between two straight lines is 80 to 100 and accordingly includes the case where the angle is 85 to 95 .

In this specification the trigonal and rhombohedral crystal systems are included in the hexagonal crystal system.

The state in which impurity concentration is low and density of defect states is low the number of oxygen vacancies is small is referred to as highly purified intrinsic or substantially highly purified intrinsic . A highly purified intrinsic or substantially highly purified intrinsic oxide semiconductor has few carrier generation sources and thus can have low carrier density in some cases. Thus in some cases a transistor including the oxide semiconductor in a channel formation region rarely has negative threshold voltage is rarely normally on . A highly purified intrinsic or substantially highly purified intrinsic oxide semiconductor has low density of defect states and accordingly has low density of trap states in some cases. Thus the transistor including the oxide semiconductor in the channel formation region has a small variation in electrical characteristics and high reliability in some cases. Note that electric charge trapped by the trap states in the oxide semiconductor takes a long time to disappear. The trapped electric charge may behave like fixed electric charge. Thus the transistor that includes the oxide semiconductor having high density of trap states in the channel formation region has unstable electrical characteristics in some cases.

A transistor including the highly purified intrinsic or substantially highly purified intrinsic CAAC OS has a small variation in electrical characteristics due to irradiation with visible light or ultraviolet light.

An oxide semiconductor may include polycrystal for example. Note that an oxide semiconductor including polycrystal is referred to as a polycrystalline oxide semiconductor. A polycrystalline oxide semiconductor includes a plurality of crystal grains.

An oxide semiconductor may include microcrystal for example. Note that an oxide semiconductor including microcrystal is referred to as a microcrystalline oxide semiconductor.

In an image obtained with a TEM for example crystal parts cannot be found clearly in the microcrystalline oxide semiconductor in some cases. In most cases the size of a crystal part included in the microcrystalline oxide semiconductor is greater than or equal to 1 nm and less than or equal to 100 nm or greater than or equal to 1 nm and less than or equal to 10 nm. Microcrystal with a size greater than or equal to 1 nm and less than or equal to 10 nm is specifically referred to as nanocrystal nc for example. An oxide semiconductor including nanocrystal is referred to as a nanocrystalline oxide semiconductor nc OS . In an image of the nc OS obtained with a TEM for example a boundary between crystal parts is not clearly detected in some cases. In an image of the nc OS obtained with a TEM for example since a clear grain boundary does not exist for example segregation of an impurity is unlikely to occur. In the nc OS since a clear grain boundary does not exist for example high density of defect states is unlikely to occur. In the nc OS since a clear grain boundary does not exist for example a reduction in electron mobility is unlikely to occur.

In the nc OS for example a microscopic region e.g. a region with a size greater than or equal to 1 nm and less than or equal to 10 nm has periodic atomic order occasionally. Further for example in the nc OS crystal parts are not regularly arranged. Thus there is a case where periodic atomic order is not observed macroscopically or a case where long range order in atomic arrangement is not observed. Accordingly in some cases the nc OS cannot be distinguished from an amorphous oxide semiconductor for example depending on an analysis method. When the nc OS is analyzed by an out of plane method with an XRD apparatus using an X ray having a beam diameter larger than the diameter of a crystal part a peak which shows alignment does not appear in some cases. Further for example a halo pattern is shown in some cases in an electron diffraction pattern of the nc OS obtained by using an electron beam having a beam diameter larger than the diameter of a crystal part e.g. a beam diameter of 20 nm or more or 50 nm or more . For example spots are shown in some cases in a nanobeam electron diffraction pattern of the nc OS obtained by using an electron beam having a beam diameter smaller than or equal to the diameter of a crystal part e.g. a beam diameter of 10 nm or less or 5 nm or less . In a nanobeam electron diffraction pattern of the nc OS for example regions with high luminance in a circular pattern are shown in some cases. In a nanobeam electron diffraction pattern of the nc OS for example a plurality of spots are shown in the region in some cases.

Since the microscopic region in the nc OS has periodic atomic order occasionally the nc OS has lower density of defect states than the amorphous oxide semiconductor. Note that since crystal parts in the nc OS are not regularly arranged the nc OS has higher density of defect states than the CAAC OS.

Note that the oxide semiconductor may be a mixed film including two or more of a CAAC OS a polycrystalline oxide semiconductor a microcrystalline oxide semiconductor and an amorphous oxide semiconductor. The mixed film includes two or more of an amorphous oxide semiconductor region a microcrystalline oxide semiconductor region a polycrystalline oxide semiconductor region and a CAAC OS region in some cases. The mixed film has a layered structure of two or more of an amorphous oxide semiconductor region a microcrystalline oxide semiconductor region a polycrystalline oxide semiconductor region and a CAAC OS region in some cases.

In this embodiment examples of transistors and a capacitor that can be used in a semiconductor device or a PLD according to one embodiment of the present invention are described.

The transistor is formed over the transistor . In other words the transistor and the transistor are stacked. Thus high integration can be achieved.

The transistor is formed using a single crystal silicon substrate. Note that a thin film of silicon germanium or the like may be used for a semiconductor layer of the transistor . Silicon or germanium is amorphous microcrystalline polycrystalline or single crystal. For a silicon thin film any of the following can be used amorphous silicon formed by sputtering or vapor phase growth such as plasma enhanced CVD polycrystalline silicon obtained by crystallization of amorphous silicon by treatment such as laser annealing single crystal silicon obtained by separation of a surface portion of a single crystal silicon wafer by implantation of hydrogen ions or the like into the silicon wafer and the like.

The semiconductor substrate can be for example an n type or p type silicon substrate germanium substrate silicon germanium substrate or compound semiconductor substrate e.g. GaAs substrate InP substrate GaN substrate SiC substrate GaP substrate GaInAsP substrate or ZnSe substrate . In a single crystal silicon substrate having n type conductivity is used.

The transistor is electrically isolated from another transistor by an element isolation insulating film . The element isolation insulating film can be formed by a local oxidation of silicon LOCOS method a trench isolation method or the like. Specifically the transistor includes impurity regions and that are formed in the semiconductor substrate and function as a source region and a drain region a gate electrode and a gate insulating film provided between the semiconductor substrate and the gate electrode . The gate electrode overlaps with a channel formation region formed between the impurity regions and with the gate insulating film positioned between the gate electrode and the channel formation region.

An insulating film is provided over the transistor . Openings are formed in the insulating film . Wirings and that are in contact with the impurity regions and respectively and a wiring that is in contact with the gate electrode is formed in the openings.

The wiring is connected to a wiring formed over the insulating film . The wiring is connected to a wiring formed over the insulating film . The wiring is connected to a wiring formed over the insulating film .

An insulating film is formed over the wirings to . An opening is formed in the insulating film . In the opening a wiring that is connected to the wiring is formed.

The transistor includes over the insulating film a semiconductor film containing an oxide semiconductor conductive films and that are positioned over the semiconductor film and function as a source electrode and a drain electrode a gate insulating film over the semiconductor film and the conductive films and and a gate electrode that is positioned over the gate insulating film and overlaps with the semiconductor film between the conductive films and . Note that the conductive film is connected to the wiring .

A conductive film is provided over the gate insulating film to overlap with the conductive film . A portion where the conductive films and overlap with each other with the gate insulating film positioned therebetween functions as the capacitor .

Note that in the capacitor is provided over the insulating film together with the transistor . However the capacitor may be provided below the insulating film together with the transistor .

An insulating film is provided over the transistor and the capacitor . An opening is provided in the insulating film . Over the insulating film a conductive film that is in contact with the gate electrode through the opening is provided.

Note that in the transistor includes the gate electrode on at least one side of the semiconductor film . Alternatively the transistor may include a pair of gate electrodes with the semiconductor film positioned therebetween.

When the transistor includes a pair of gate electrodes with the semiconductor film positioned therebetween a signal for controlling an on state or an off state may be supplied to one of the gate electrodes and the other of the gate electrodes may be supplied with a potential from another element. In the latter case potentials at the same level may be supplied to the pair of electrodes or a fixed potential such as a ground potential may be supplied only to the other of the gate electrodes. By controlling the level of a potential applied to the other of the gate electrodes the threshold voltage of the transistor can be controlled.

The semiconductor film is not necessarily formed using a single oxide semiconductor film and may be formed using a stack of a plurality of oxide semiconductor layers. For example illustrates a structure example of the transistor in which the semiconductor film has a three layer structure. The transistor includes the semiconductor film provided over the insulating film and the like the conductive films and electrically connected to the semiconductor film the gate insulating film and the gate electrode that is provided over the gate insulating film to overlap with the semiconductor film . Oxide semiconductor layers to are stacked sequentially from the insulating film side as the semiconductor film . Each of the oxide semiconductor layers and is an oxide layer that contains at least one of metal elements contained in the oxide semiconductor layer and in which energy at the bottom of the conduction band is closer to the vacuum level than that in the oxide semiconductor layer by higher than or equal to 0.05 eV 0.07 eV 0.1 eV or 0.15 eV and lower than or equal to 2 eV 1 eV 0.5 eV or 0.4 eV. The oxide semiconductor layer preferably contains at least indium because carrier mobility is increased.

Note that as illustrated in the oxide semiconductor layer may be provided over the conductive films and to overlap with the gate insulating film .

In this embodiment examples in which a circuit including the transistor described in the above embodiment is used in an electronic component and examples in which the circuit including the transistor described in the above embodiment is used in an electronic device including the electronic component are described with reference to and .

A semiconductor device including a transistor as illustrated in is completed after an assembly process post process by using a plurality of components that can be detached and attached from and to a printed wiring board in combination.

The post process can be finished through each step in . Specifically after an element substrate obtained in the preceding process is completed Step S a rear surface of the substrate is ground Step S . By thinning the substrate at this stage the warpage or the like of the substrate in the preceding process is reduced and the component is downsized.

The rear surface of the substrate is ground so that the substrate is divided into a plurality of chips in a dicing process. Then the divided chips are separately picked up to be mounted on and bonded to a lead frame in a die bonding process Step S . In this die bonding process the chip is bonded to the lead frame by an appropriate method depending on a product for example bonding with a resin or a tape. Note that in the die bonding process bonding between the chip and the lead frame may be conducted by mounting the chip on an interposer.

Then wire bonding is performed to electrically connect lead of the lead frame to an electrode on the chip with a metal fine line wire Step S . A silver line or a gold line can be used as the metal fine line. Ball bonding or wedge bonding can be used as the wire bonding.

A molding process is performed to seal the wire bonded chip with an epoxy resin or the like Step S . With the molding process the electronic component is filled with the resin so that a mounted circuit portion or wire can be protected against mechanical external force. Further deterioration in characteristics due to moisture or dust can be reduced.

Next plate processing is performed on the lead of the lead frame. After that the lead is cut and processed Step S . This plate processing prevents rust of the lead and facilitates soldering at the time of mounting the chip on a printed wiring board in a later step.

Then printing marking is performed on a surface of the package Step S . Through the final inspection process Step S the electronic component having the circuit portion including a PLD is completed Step S .

The above electronic component can include a semiconductor device a PLD or the like according to one embodiment of the present invention. Thus it is possible to obtain a highly reliable electronic component.

Then applications of the electronic component to an electronic device such as a computer a portable information terminal including a cellular phone a portable game machine an audio reproducing device and the like electronic paper a television device also referred to as a television or a television receiver or a digital video camera are described.

Note that the first display portion is a touch panel and for example as illustrated in the left of which of touch input and keyboard input is performed can be selected by a selection button displayed on the first display portion . Since the selection buttons with a variety of sizes can be displayed the portable information terminal can be used easily by people of any generation. In the case where keyboard input is selected for example a keyboard is displayed on the first display portion as illustrated in the right of . With the keyboard letters can be input rapidly by keyboard input as in the case of using a conventional information terminal for example.

Further one of the first display portion and the second display portion can be detached from the portable information terminal as illustrated in the right in . The first display portion can also function as a touch panel for a reduction in weight to carry around to be operated by one hand while the other hand supports the housing which is convenient.

The portable information terminal in can have a function of displaying various kinds of information e.g. a still image a moving image and a text image a function of displaying a calendar a date the time or the like on the display portion a function of operating or editing the information displayed on the display portion a function of controlling processing by various kinds of software programs and the like. Further an external connection terminal e.g. an earphone terminal or a USB terminal a recording medium insertion portion and the like may be provided on the back surface or the side surface of the housing.

The portable information terminal in may transmit and receive data wirelessly. Through wireless communication desired book data or the like can be purchased and downloaded from an electronic book server.

Further the housing in may have an antenna a microphone function or a wireless communication function to be used as a cellular phone.

As described above the mounted board including the semiconductor device or the PLD according to one embodiment of the present invention is mounted on the electronic device described in this embodiment. Thus a highly reliable electronic device is obtained.

This application is based on Japanese Patent Application serial No. 2013 048616 filed with Japan Patent Office on Mar. 12 2013 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

