---

title: Mitral valve spacer and system and method for implanting the same
abstract: A heart valve implant is disclosed herein. The heart valve implant comprises an inflatable valve body, a shaft, an anchor assembly and an inflation (injection) port. Also disclosed herein, are methods of trans-apically and trans-septally delivering a heart valve implant within a heart such that the valve body can be inflated in situ to partially or completely restrict blood flow through a heart valve in a closed position. The inflation (injection) port permits inflation of the valve body with an adjustable amount of an inflation fluid to attain a desired degree of inflation of the valve body when disposed within the heart valve.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09545305&OS=09545305&RS=09545305
owner: Cardiosolutions, Inc.
number: 09545305
owner_city: West Bridgewater
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140818
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 305 089 filed Jun. 16 2014 which claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent No. 61 835 093 filed Jun. 14 2013 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates to the repair and or correction of dysfunctional heart valves and more particularly pertains to heart valve implants and systems and methods for delivery and implementation of the same.

The human heart has four chambers the left and right atrium and the left and right ventricles. The chambers of the heart alternately expand and contract to pump blood through the vessels of the body. The cycle of the heart includes the simultaneous contraction of the left and right atria passing blood from the atria to the left and right ventricles. The left and right ventricles then simultaneously contract forcing blood from the heart and through the vessels of the body. In addition to the four chambers the heart also includes a check valve at the upstream end of each chamber to ensure that blood flows in the correct direction through the body as the heart chambers expand and contract. These valves may become damaged or otherwise fail to function properly resulting in their inability to properly close when the downstream chamber contracts. Failure of the valves to properly close may allow blood to flow backward through the valve resulting in decreased blood flow and lower blood pressure.

Mitral regurgitation is a common variety of heart valve dysfunction or insufficiency. Mitral regurgitation occurs when the mitral valve separating the left coronary atrium and the left ventricle fails to properly close. As a result upon contraction of the left ventricle blood may leak or flow from the left ventricle back into the left atrium rather than being forced through the aorta. Any disorder that weakens or damages the mitral valve can prevent it from closing properly thereby causing leakage or regurgitation. Mitral regurgitation is considered to be chronic when the condition persists rather than occurring for only a short period of time.

Regardless of the cause mitral regurgitation may result in a decrease in blood flow through the body cardiac output . Correction of mitral regurgitation typically requires surgical intervention. Surgical valve repair or replacement may be carried out as an open heart procedure. The repair or replacement surgery may last in the range of about three to five hours and may be carried out with the patient under general anesthesia. The nature of the surgical procedure requires the patient to be placed on a heart lung machine. Because of the severity complexity and or danger associated with open heart surgical procedures corrective surgery for mitral regurgitation may not be recommended in certain patients.

Described herein is a heart valve implant and methods of delivering the same to an individual s heart. The heart valve implant is configured to be delivered to the heart trans apically i.e. through the apex of the heart or trans femorally. The heart valve implant is configured to be implanted at least partially within the heart.

Accordingly in one aspect the invention is directed to a heart valve implant. The heart valve implant comprises an inflatable valve body a shaft an anchor assembly and an inflation e.g. injection port. The inflatable valve body defines a cavity comprising a proximal end and a distal end. The shaft extends from the proximal end of the inflatable valve body and comprises a lumen in fluid communication with said cavity. The anchor assembly is attached to the shaft proximal to the inflatable valve body. The inflation e.g. injection port can include one or more lumens in fluid communication with the shaft lumen.

In some aspects the heart valve implant comprises one or more radiopaque markers. In another aspect the heart valve implant comprises one or more radiopaque markers that are located at or near the proximal end of the inflatable valve body.

In some aspects the inflation e.g. injection port comprises a pierceable septum configured to fluidly seal the inflation port. In some embodiments the pierceable septum can be self sealing. In a related aspect the inflation port is substantially hollow. The pierceable septum can be formed of a variety of different materials. By way of example in some embodiments the pierceable septum comprises silicone. In one embodiment the pierceable septum is liquid tight. In some embodiments the inflation port comprises one or more suture holes.

In some aspects the anchor assembly comprises a passageway and one or more arms. For example the anchor assembly can include a central opening and two opposed peripheral arms that extend outwardly from the central opening. In one aspect the passageway is configured to receive and advance the shaft. In one aspect each of the one or more arms defines an opening and the anchor assembly is configured to be secured to an exterior surface of an individual s heart. In one aspect one or more sutures are placed around each of the one or more arms of the anchor assembly. The sutures can be employed to secure e.g. fixate the anchor assembly to an exterior surface of an individual s heart.

In some aspects the inflatable valve body is partially inflated with an expansion medium inflation fluid . In another aspect the inflatable valve body is completely inflated with an expansion medium inflation fluid . A variety of expansion media can be employed. In some embodiments the expansion medium is a gas a liquid or a gel. By way of example in some embodiments the expansion medium can be deionized water saline or contrast medium.

In some aspects the shaft of the heart valve implant is attached to the distal end of the inflatable valve body. In some embodiments the shaft of the heart valve extends partially through the inflatable valve body. In other embodiments the shaft of the heart valve implant extends across a length of the inflatable valve body and is attached to both the proximal and distal ends of the inflatable valve body.

In some aspects the lumen of the shaft in fluid communication with the inflatable valve body comprises one or more openings. The one or openings provide the fluid communication between the lumen of the shaft with the inflatable valve body.

In some embodiments the inflatable valve body can be formed of any of material suitable for the implant described herein. The material can be able to withstand physiological conditions e.g. the conditions in a heart . The material can also be elastic and pliably deformable.

In some embodiments the shaft can be formed of any of material suitable for the implant described herein. The shaft can be flexible or pliably deformable so that it can bend to accommodate the delivery systems described herein. The shaft can also have sufficient rigidity as not to collapse onto itself.

In some embodiments the anchor assembly can be formed of any of material suitable for the implant and methods described herein.

In another aspect the invention is directed to a method of trans apically delivering a heart valve implant within a heart. The method comprises trans apically advancing an introducer comprising a lumen through an incision in an apex of a heart into a left ventricle advancing said introducer through a mitral valve into a left atrium advancing the heart valve implant through the introducer lumen into the left atrium wherein a shaft of the heart valve implant extends from an inflatable valve body to beyond the incision in the apex and removing the introducer from said heart thereby delivering the valve body and at least a portion of the shaft within the heart.

In one aspect the method of trans apically delivering a heart valve implant comprises placing the inflatable valve body at least a portion of one or more cusps or leaflets of the heart valve may interact with engage and or seal against at least a portion of the heart valve implant when the heart valve is in a closed condition. The interaction engagement and or sealing between at least a portion of at least one cusp or leaflet and at least a portion of the heart valve implant may reduce and or eliminate regurgitation in a heart valve for example providing insufficient sealing including only a single cusp e.g. following removal of a diseased and or damaged cusp and or having a ruptured chordae.

In some aspects of the method of trans apically delivering a heart valve implant the implant comprises an anchor assembly. In one embodiment the anchor assembly comprises a passageway and one or more arms. The passageway is configured to receive the shaft and to allow advancing the shaft through the passageway. Each of the one or more arms defines an opening. In some aspects the method further comprises advancing the anchor assembly over the shaft until the anchor assembly is at or near the apex of the heart. In one aspect the method further comprises securing the anchor assembly to an external surface of the heart. In another aspect the method comprises securing the anchor assembly to an external surface of the heart at or near said apex of the heart. In another aspect securing the anchor assembly comprises suturing one or more sutures around each of the one or more arms of the anchor assembly.

In another aspect the method further comprises securing the inflation e.g. injection port subdermally at or near a chest wall. In some embodiments the subdermally located inflation port can be employed to deliver an expansion medium inflation fluid e.g. deionized water saline contrast medium to the inflatable valve body. For example the expansion medium can be placed in a syringe and the needle can be employed to pierce through the septum. The medium can then be transferred via the hollow body of the inflation port and the shaft to the inflatable valve body.

In another aspect the method comprises trans apically delivering a heart valve implant within a heart wherein the inflatable valve body comprises one or more radiopaque markers for locating the inflatable valve body within the mitral valve.

In another aspect the method further comprises completely or partially inflating the inflatable valve body with an inflation fluid. In another aspect wherein the step of inflating the inflatable valve body further comprises piercing a pierceable septum of the inflation port and introducing an expansion medium inflation fluid through the pierceable septum into the inflation port thereby inflating the inflatable valve body with the inflation fluid. In one aspect the inflation fluid is a liquid. In another aspect the method further comprises adjusting the amount of inflation fluid within the implant until a desired level of inflation is attained. In another aspect the inflatable valve body interacts with all or a portion of at least one cusp or leaflet of the mitral valve. In another aspect the inflatable valve body partially or completely restricts a flow of blood through the mitral valve in a closed position.

In another aspect the invention is directed to method of trans apically delivering a heart valve implant within a heart. The implant comprises an inflatable valve body a shaft an anchor assembly and an inflation port. The method comprises trans apically advancing an introducer comprising a lumen through an incision in an apex of a heart into a left ventricle advancing the heart valve implant through the introducer lumen into the left ventricle wherein the inflatable valve body extends from the introducer partially inflating the inflatable valve body advancing said introducer and partially inflated inflatable valve body through a mitral valve into a left atrium advancing the heart valve implant through the introducer lumen into the left atrium removing the introducer from said heart thereby delivering the inflatable valve body and at least a portion of the shaft within the heart.

The present disclosure relates to a system and method of implanting a heart implant. For example the system and method according to one embodiment of the present disclosure may be used to implant a heart valve implant which may suitably be used in connection with the treatment diagnostics and or correction of a dysfunctional or inoperative heart valve e.g. function mitral valve regurgitation and degenerative mitral valve regurgitation . One suitable implementation for a heart valve implant consistent with the present disclosure is the treatment of mitral valve regurgitation mitral insufficiency or mitral incompetence . For the ease of explanation the heart valve implant herein is described in terms of a mitral valve implant such as may be used in treating mitral valve regurgitation as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 258 828 filed Oct. 26 2005 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 209 686 filed Sep. 12 2008 both of which are fully incorporated herein by reference. However a heart valve implant consistent with the present disclosure may be employed for treating diagnosing and or correcting other dysfunctional or inoperative heart valves such as the heart valve implant s discussed herein in connection with

It should be understood that the technology of the present disclosure including the implant described in connection with is not limited to mitral valve implants and systems and methods of implanting mitral valve implants. Indeed the systems and methods according to the present disclosure may be used to implant heart implants configured to be used in connection with the treatment diagnostics and or correction of other heart conditions. For example and without limitation the system and method consistent with the present disclosure may be used to implant a regurgitation implant configured to induce a controlled regurgitation in a heart valve such as but not limited to a mitral heart valve for example in a manner that is generally consistent with advanced disease of the heart. The regurgitation implant may include a regurgitation implant as described in U.S. patent Ser. No. 11 940 724 filed Nov. 15 2007 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 209 686 filed Sep. 12 2008 both of which are fully incorporated herein by reference.

According to one embodiment a heart implant consistent with the present disclosure may comprise a heart valve implant configured to interact with at least a portion of an existing heart valve to prevent and or reduce regurgitation. For example at least a portion of one or more cusps or leaflets of the heart valve may interact with engage and or seal against at least a portion of the heart valve implant when the heart valve is in a closed condition. As used herein cusp and leaflet refer to the same anatomic structure of a heart valve. The interaction engagement and or sealing between at least a portion of at least one cusp or leaflet and at least a portion of the heart valve implant may reduce and or eliminate regurgitation in a heart valve for example providing insufficient sealing including only a single cusp e.g. following removal of a diseased and or damaged cusp and or having a ruptured chordae. A heart valve implant consistent with the present disclosure may be used in connection with various additional and or alternative defects and or deficiencies.

For the ease of explanation one embodiment of the system and method consistent with the present disclosure is described in terms of a system and method for implanting a mitral valve implant such as may be used in treating mitral valve regurgitation. By way of an overview the system and method may generally comprise placing a first guide wire into the left ventricle replacing the first guide wire with a second e.g. delivery guide wire piercing an apex the heart with the second guide wire advancing the second guide wire such that a distal portion thereof extends to an exterior of said heart and advancing a mitral valve implant over said guide wire through said puncture in said apex and into the left ventricle.

For example a delivery e.g. second guide wire may be initially placed into the left atrium of the heart for example by way of transseptal puncture of the heart from the right atrium through the fossa ovalis into the left atrium. A dilator may then be advanced along the delivery guide wire to the left atrium and may be passed through the mitral valve into the left ventricle. The dilator may include a balloon which may be inflated to facilitate passing the dilator through the mitral valve without damaging the mitral valve or becoming entangled in the mitral valve chordae. A steerable catheter may then be advanced along the dilator into the left ventricle and to the apex of the heart. The delivery guide wire may then be exchanged with a third e.g. puncturing guide wire which may be used to puncture through the apex of the heart. The implant may then be advanced over the third guide wire through the puncture in said heart using a trans apical delivery procedure. Once the implant is delivered into the heart it may be positioned and inflated in a desired manner. In some embodiments at least one of the position and inflation of the implant may be adjustable even after the implant is initially sited and inflated within the heart.

Referring now to a cross sectional schematic view of a portion of a four chamber heart is illustrated. The outflow tracts of the right and left ventricles are not shown in order to better illustrate the septum between the right and left atria . As shown the inferior vena cava IVC and superior vena cava SVC communicate with the right atrium which is separated from the left atrium by the intra atrial septum . While not a limitation of the present disclosure it is may be advantageous to make the transseptal puncture through the fossa ovalis since the fossa ovalis is thinnest portion of the intra atrial septum .

According to one embodiment consistent with the present disclosure a first guide wire may be advanced up the IVC and into the right atrium . The first guide wire may include any guide wire configured to be advanced up the IVC and into the right atrium . Consistent with one embodiment the first guide wire may be the same as a delivery e.g. second guide wire discussed herein however the first guide wire may also be separate and distinct from the delivery guide wire. Without limitation access to the right atrium may be accomplished by way of the Seldinger wire technique. For example the right femoral vein not shown may be accessed with a hollow needle not shown and a first guide wire may be inserted. The needle may be removed and a dilator may be inserted over the first guide wire . The sheath of a catheter such as but not limited to a Mullins catheter or the like having a pre bent region proximate the distal tip of the catheter may be inserted over the dilator . The sheath dilator catheter and first guide wire may then be advanced up the IVC through the opening into the right atrium as generally illustrated in .

With the sheath dilator catheter and first guide wire in the right atrium access to the left atrium may be achieved by transseptal puncture from the right atrium through the intra atrial septum . For example at least a portion of the first guide wire may be advanced out of the distal tip of the dilator sheath and or catheter as generally shown in . According to an embodiment the first guide wire may be at least partially advanced into the SVC as generally illustrated in and the distal tip of the catheter may then be at least partially advanced along the first guide wire into the SVC as generally illustrated in . Because the SVC is a thin walled vein it may be advantageous to place the first guide wire in the SVC and then advance the catheter along the first guide wire since the spring tipped atraumatic first guide wire reduces the potential for damaging the SVC compared to the catheter and dilator .

With the distal tip at least partially received in the SVC the first guide wire may be retracted into the dilator and the catheter may be retracted i.e. pulled downward such that the pre bent portion of the sheath facilitates guiding the distal tip to the fossa ovalis as generally illustrated in . For example using one or more visualization techniques such as but not limited to intracardiac echo ICE fluoroscopy and the like the sheath may be retracted proximally dragging the distal tip along the intra atrial septum until the distal tip is positioned proximate to the fossa ovalis . Optionally the position of the sheath relative to the fossa ovalis may be confirmed by gently pushing the sheath distally against the intra atrial septum to tent the fossa ovalis as generally illustrated in . The tenting of the fossa ovalis may be seen on ICE fluoroscopy or the like.

With the distal tip proximate and or contacting the fossa ovalis the first guide wire may be removed from the catheter and a transseptal needle may be advanced through the catheter towards the distal end of the catheter as generally shown in . The position of the catheter may optionally be confirmed for example but not limited to by tenting and the transseptal needle may be advanced out of the distal tip to form a puncture through the fossa ovalis and into the left atrium . The sheath dilator and catheter may than be advanced through the puncture of the fossa ovalis and into the left atrium as generally shown in . Once the sheath dilator and catheter are through the fossa ovalis the needle may be removed from the catheter as generally shown in .

With the catheter in the left atrium a delivery e.g. second guide wire may be advanced through the catheter until at least a portion of the distal tip of the delivery guide wire extends from the distal tip of the catheter and into the left atrium as generally illustrated in . Once the distal tip of the delivery guide wire is disposed in the left atrium the dilator and the sheath may be removed leaving just the delivery guide wire in the left atrium as generally illustrated in .

The delivery guide wire may be used as a guide for advancing other devices into the heart and ultimately into the left ventricle . Accordingly to at least one embodiment the delivery guide wire may be sufficiently stiff to resist undesirable bending and or kinking and to resist undesirable movement of the distal tip . For example the delivery guide wire may comprise a stiff 0.018 diameter guide wire having a stiffness of approximately 19 900 000 psi. The stiffness of the delivery guide wire was determined as follows.

When a force is applied to a long thin column there is no movement of the column until a minimum critical buckling force is achieved P then further buckling occurs though the force does not increase. For a long column of uniform cross section and length l which buckles under a critical force P the following formula applies 

Based on the above an 8 cm section of the delivery guide wire was tested and a buckling force of 0.41 lbs. was determined. Therefore 

This stiffness modulus of elasticity of the delivery guide wire may therefore be approximately 19 900 000 psi. Of course the delivery guide wire may have a stiffness greater than or less than 19 900 000 psi.

According to at least one other embodiment the delivery guide wire may include a typical 0.018 guide wire for example a 0.018 angled standard exchange guide wire made by Merit Medical Systems of South Jordan Utah Model H20STDA18260EX which was determined to have a stiffness of approximately 1 360 000 psi based on the same methodology . In either embodiment the delivery guide wire may have a diameter greater than or less than 0.018 .

Turning now to a dilator may be advanced over the delivery guide wire into the left atrium . The dilator may be configured to pass through the mitral valve into the left ventricle without damaging the mitral valve or becoming entangled in the mitral valve for example the cusps the chordae and or papillary muscles of the mitral valve . According to at least one embodiment the dilator of the present disclosure may be used to eliminate the delivery guide wire as disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 209 686 filed Sep. 12 2008. However it may be appreciated that the system and method disclosed in the present disclosure and in particular the dilator is not inconsistent with the system and method in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 209 686 and as such the system and method disclosed in the present disclosure including the dilator may be used in conjunction with the system and method in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 209 686.

One embodiment of a dilator consistent with the present disclosure is generally illustrated in . The dilator may include define at least one lumen configured to receive at least a portion of the delivery guide wire . For example the lumen may have an internal diameter of approximately 0.038 . The dilator may also comprise a shaft including a tapered tip region . The shaft may comprise a plurality of segments or portions having different stiffness or hardness to produce the desired overall curvature. The shaft may be formed from one or more suitable polymers such as but not limited to a polyether block amide. The shaft may have a constant inner and or outer diameter and may be made from different materials to provide the various stiffness or hardness. Alternatively or in addition the shaft may have different inner and or outer diameters and may be made from one or more materials. For example the various stiffness or hardness of the shaft may be provided by varying the thickness of the shaft at the different segments or portions. The different hardness of the segments may provide differing degrees of bending stiffness to the dilator which may facilitate advancing the dilator into and or out of the left ventricle .

As shown the dilator may comprise four different segments and . The first segment may be disposed proximate the distal end region . The first segment may optionally include the tapered distal tip and may have a length of approximately 6 inches. The tapered distal tip may be provided to facilitate advancing the tip into the percutaneous puncture site in the groin as the dilator is introduced over the delivery guide wire .

According to at least one embodiment the first segment may be formed of PEBAX 3533 having a durometer of 35 D. The second segment may be adjacent to the first segment and may have a length of approximately 1.5 inches. According to at least one embodiment the second segment may be formed of PEBAX 2533 having a durometer of 25 D. The third segment may be adjacent to the second segment and may have a length of approximately 2 inches. According to at least one embodiment the third segment may be formed of PEBAX 3533 having a durometer of 35 D. The forth segment may be adjacent to the third segment and may have a length of approximately 42.5 inches. According to at least one embodiment the forth segment may be formed of PEBAX 7233 having a durometer of 72 D.

It should be understood that the various lengths and hardness described above for the segments may be adjusted or changed depending upon the circumstances of its intended use. For example patients with larger and or smaller hearts may require one or more of the segments to be harder or softer. An important aspect of the segments is that the softest segment is the second segment . Also the second segment is disposed approximately 6 inches from the tapered distal tip . As will be explained herein the location of the second segment may generally correspond to the of the transseptal puncture site where the curvature of the dilator may be greatest.

Turning now to another embodiment of a dilator consistent with the present disclosure is generally illustrated. The dilator may include a deflectable tip configured to allow the user to bend the distal region of the dilator . The deflectable tip may facilitate advancement of the dilator through the mitral valve by allowing the user to generally aim the tip towards the mitral valve . According to at least one embodiment the dilator may include a handle assembly coupled to a proximal end of the shaft . The shaft may include a plurality of segments for example the segments described above. One or more deflecting wires may be coupled to the distal end region of the shaft for example as generally illustrated in . The deflecting wire may optionally be disposed in a second lumen disposed along the length of the shaft . Additional deflecting wires not shown may be provided in one or more additional lumens.

The deflecting wire may be coupled to the handle assembly such that the distal tip may be bent as desired. According to one embodiment the handle assembly may include at least one knob slider or the like coupled to the deflecting wire such that actuation of the knob may result in movement of the distal tip . For example the knob may be coupled to the deflecting wire and may pull the deflecting wire generally towards the handle assembly causing the distal tip to bend to one side.

The handle assembly may also optionally include one or more valves or fittings. For example the handle assembly may include a fitting such as but not limited to a Luer lock fitting or the like configured to allow the lumen to be flushed. The handle assembly may also optionally include a valve such as but not limited to a hemostasis valve configured to seal with the delivery guide wire not shown .

The lumen may have various diameters along the length of the shaft . For example the lumen may have a smaller diameter proximate the distal tip compared to the remainder of the shaft . The lumen proximate the tip may be slightly larger than the diameter of the delivery guide wire for example but not limited to slightly larger than 0.018 such that the dilator tracks well over the delivery guide wire . The remainder of the lumen may have a larger diameter configured to reduce drag as the dilator is advanced over the delivery guide wire . Lumen may also have a diameter sufficient to accommodate a puncturing e.g. third guide wire discussed later below.

Turning now to yet another embodiment of a dilator consistent with the present disclosure is generally illustrated. The dilator may comprise an expandable device such as but not limited to a balloon or the like configured to facilitate advancement of the dilator through the mitral valve without damaging the mitral valve or becoming entangled in the mitral valve for example the cusps the chordae and or papillary muscles of the mitral valve . The expanding portion may be disposed proximate the distal end region of the shaft for example substantially adjacent to the tapered tip . The expanding portion may be fluidly coupled to an expansion medium inflation fluid such as but not limited to a gas and or liquid which may expand and or enlarge the expanding portion from the deflated or refracted position as generally illustrated in to the inflated or expanded position as generally illustrated in . According to at least one embodiment the expanding medium may include carbon dioxide CO2 gas and or saline. Optionally contrast media may be introduced into the expanding portion to allow the expanding portion to be more easily visually located using fluoroscopy or the like. The contrast media may coat the inside surface of the expanding portion .

The expanding medium may be introduced through a fitting . According to at least one embodiment the expanding medium may be coupled to the expanding portion by way of the lumen as generally illustrated in . As may be appreciated the delivery guide wire and or a puncturing guide wire may be received in the lumen when the dilator is expanded or deflated. The expanding medium may be coupled to the expanding portion by way of a separate passageway i.e. a passageway different from the lumen configured to receive the delivery guide wire . This passageway may be the same lumen as the deflecting e.g. steering wire is housed in provided there is enough room for the expansion medium to pass around the steering wire.

The expanding portion may include a resiliently expandable collapsible material such as but not limited to silicone Yulex or the like which may be selectively collapsed and or expanded. The expanding portion may be bonded to the shaft of the dilator and may include one or more passageways aperture or lumen fluidly coupled to the lumen to allow the expansion medium inflation fluid to expand collapse the expanding portion . The diameter of the expanding portion should be small enough in the first or retracted collapsed position to be advanced over the delivery guide wire to the left atrium and large enough when in the second or expanded inflated position to be advanced through the cusps and chordae of the mitral valve to reduce the potential of damaging the heart and or getting entangled within the mitral valve . For example the shaft may have an outer diameter of approximately 0.062 e.g. a 5 Fr and a length of approximately 110 cm or greater. The expanding portion may diameter of approximately 0.100 in the first position and a diameter of approximately 15 mm to approximately 20 mm cm in the second position with a length of approximately 8 to approximately 10 mm.

The dilator may optionally include a deflectable tip configured to allow the user to bend the distal region of the dilator as generally described herein. The dilator may also optionally include one or more radiopaque markers for example disposed about the distal end region . The position markers may be spaced evenly along the shaft such as but not limited to approximately 2 cm intervals from the distal tip and may be used to verify the position of the dilator and or for sizing the implant to be delivered.

While various embodiments of the dilator consistent with the present disclosure have been described herein it should be understood that one or more features of any of the various embodiments may be combined with any other embodiment. The dilator consistent with the present disclosure may have an overall length i.e. from the distal tip to the handle assembly of approximately 145 cm or less. However the length and or the diameter of the dilator may depend upon the introduction site as well as the intended patient s physiology.

Turning now to the dilator may be advanced over the delivery guide wire proximate to the tip of the delivery guide wire . The tip may still extend beyond the tip of the dilator to protect the atrial wall from perforation. According to one embodiment the expanding portion may be expanded as generally illustrated. The dilator may aimed generally towards the mitral valve as generally illustrated in . For example the tip may be bent or curved by actuating one or more knobs or the like not shown to move one or more deflecting wires as discussed herein. The tip of the delivery guide wire may optionally be refracted into the lumen of the dilator to increase the flexibility of the distal tip region . The curvature of the dilator may be confirmed using fluoroscopic and or echo guidance techniques or the like. For example the contrast media and or the radiopaque markers may be used.

Turning now to with the dilator aimed at the mitral valve and the expanding portion inflated the distal end region of the dilator may be advanced through the mitral valve . It should be understood that the dilator may be advanced through the mitral valve without either the deflectable tip and or the expandable portion however the use of one or more of the deflectable tip and or the expandable portion may reduce the potential of damaging the heart and or getting entangled within the mitral valve . The second segment of the shaft may generally correspond to the location of the bend or curve of the dilator proximate the transseptal puncture site . As may be appreciated the necessary curvature of the dilator between the transseptal puncture site and the left ventricle is relatively sharp.

The tip of the delivery guide wire may be still located inside the lumen of the dilator back in the left atrium generally where it was located in . The dilator may not yet be aimed or directed at the intended implantation site e.g. the apex of the heart at this point. Instead it may only be important that the distal end region of the dilator is through the mitral valve without damaging and or entangling the cusps and the chordae papillary muscles .

Turning now to dilator may be aimed at and extended to an intended implantation site in this case apex within the heart such that its distal end is proximate to the intended implantation site in this case apex . Before or after dialator is so positioned delivery guide wire may be retracted and exchanged for a third e.g. puncturing guide wire . As will be discussed in detail below third guide wire may generally function to extend through a puncture at an intended implantation site of a heart and may serve as a guide wire for the delivery of a valve implant using a trans apical delivery procedure e.g. through a thoracotomy or incision in the torso of a patient.

In this regard third guide wire may in some embodiments be configured to pierce a heart at an intended implantation site e.g. apex of . Thus for example third guide wire may be configured to include relatively sharp distal tip e.g. a trocar tip that may enable third guide wire to pierce the heart when it is urged against and pushed through an intended implantation site such as apex . Alternatively or additionally the distal tip of third guide wire may be threaded or otherwise configured to enable third guide wire to bore through an intended implantation site when it is urged and twisted against said implantation site. In any case third guide wire may have a stiffness that is sufficient to enable it to be pushed and or threaded through an intended implantation site of a heart e.g. apex .

After third guide wire has pierced the heart a distal end thereof may extend outside of said heart and into surrounding tissue such as the pericardium or even into the pericardial space. At this point or upon further distal urging third guide wire may be manipulated e.g. grasped and pulled until the distal end thereof may extend a significant distance outside of said heart and potentially outside of the body of a patient. For example through a thoracotomy or other incision a surgeon may insert one or more instruments e.g. graspers into the torso of the patient to grab or otherwise manipulate a distal portion of the third guide wire such that it is pulled or otherwise advanced further outside of the heart. At that point a hollow needle and needle hub and or other elements may be advanced over the third guide wire as generally shown in .

Alternatively or additionally a hollow needle which may be coupled to a needle hub may be positioned proximal to an apex at an exterior of the heart and aligned with a distal tip of third guide wire e.g. using fluoroscopy or another imaging technique. To facilitate alignment of hollow needle with the distal tip of third guide wire hollow needle and third guide wire may be include one or more radiopaque or other visualization markers. In embodiments alignment of hollow needle and the distal tip of third guide wire may be considered achieved if a lumen of hollow needle and the distal tip of third guide wire are pointed at generally opposing sides of an intended implantation site of the heart. For example when the implantation site is apex alignment of hollow needle and the distal tip of third guide wire may involve aiming the distal tip of third guide wire at first portion of said apex internal to said left ventricle and aiming a distal tip not labeled of said hollow needle at a second portion of said apex that is external to the heart.

Positioning of hollow needle as discussed above may be achieved for example by inserting the hollow needle through a thoracotomy or other incision and maneuvering hollow needle to the correct location. For example hollow needle may be gently maneuvered so that it pierces the pericardial sack not shown of the heart. Using visualization means e.g. fluoroscopy hollow needle may be aimed at the second portion of the intended implantation site external to the heart and advanced proximate to said second portion. In some embodiments hollow needle may be exchanged for a biopsy needle not shown including a biopsy lumen wherein the biopsy needle may be advanced over a fourth guide wire not shown which may be inserted to confirm the position of the hollow needle . If used the biopsy needle may remove tissue e.g. from the pericardium so as to facilitate the insertion of other components through the pericardium and or other tissues surrounding the heart.

Once the distal tip of third guide wire and the hollow needle or biopsy need are aligned third guide wire may be advanced through the intended implantation site e.g. apex and into the lumen of hollow needle . Alternatively or additionally hollow needle may be advanced through the intended implantation site e.g. apex and into left ventricle . Simultaneously or subsequently third guide wire may be captured within a lumen of hollow needle as generally illustrated in .

In any case third guide wire may be pushed or otherwise advanced through hollow needle needle hub and into the pericardium and or pericardial space external to the heart. A distal portion of the third guide wire may then be pulled or otherwise manipulated until it extends a substantial distance outside the heart and potentially to an exterior of a patient. At that point hollow needle may be removed from the heart leaving third guide wire remaining in the left ventricle and extending through the intended implantation site e.g. apex and into a region external to the heart and potentially to a patient . The third guide wire may then be used as a pathway for advancing other instruments and devices into the heart. For example an introducer and or dilator may be advanced along third guide wire into the left ventricle as generally illustrated in .

The distal end of the shaft of the introducer may be beveled to aid in passing the introducer through the puncture in the apex . The introducer may also feature a predefined bend . The predefined bend may be formed in the introducer during the manufacturing of the introducer and may be configured to facilitate alignment of the distal end of the introducer with the mitral valve . Without the bend e.g. if the introducer was linear it may be difficult to align the tip of the introducer with the mitral valve between the two papillary muscles and into the outflow tract of the mitral valve . While the bend does not appear to be perfectly aligned with the mitral valve in this is due in part to the three dimensional path which is not readily shown in two dimensional drawings. The bend may be disposed at an angle of approximately 20 40 degrees for example 30 degrees from the longitudinal axis of the main portion of the introducer extending outwardly from the incision in the apex .

The introducer may optionally include a splitter also referred to as the introducer hub configured to longitudinally split the shaft of the introducer such that the introducer forms a split catheter which can be easily removed while allowing an object within the lumen of the introducer e.g. the third guide wire and or a portion of an implant loaded in the introducer to remain within the lumen of the introducer . The splitter may include a seal configured to allow another device and or lumen to be selectively and removably sealed and or advanced through to the splitter and into the lumen of the introducer .

For example the splitter introducer hub may include at least two parts namely an outer shell made of a polymer that has been molded in such a way as to provide a preferential and controlled break away seam and the inner seal made of silicone rubber also with a molded break away seam. The outer shell and silicone seal are mechanically connected so that the break away seams are both positioned along the same axis as the shaft lumen of the introducer . The splitter introducer hub is mechanically connected to the proximal end of the introducer s tubular shaft. When the handles of the outer shell of the splitter introducer hub are actuated in opposite directions with sufficient force rotating away from the axis of the introducer toward the distal end of the introducer preferential break away seams of the outer shell and of the inner seal of the splitter introducer hub may separate and propagate a tear in the wall of the tube of the introducer . Continuing to further separate the handles of the splitter introducer hub in turn may continue to advance the tear in the tube of the introducer . A user may thus continue to separate the handles to tear the tube until the tear reaches a distal end of the tube and complete axial separation of the introducer results.

Once the introducer has been advanced into the left ventricle through the puncture in apex one or more e.g. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more purse string sutures and or one or more e.g. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more pledgets may be secured around the shaft of the introducer and the puncture as generally illustrated in . The purse string sutures and or pledgets are configured to apply a radially compressive force against the shaft of the introducer during the procedures thereby minimizing the potential for accidentally tearing the heart tissue proximate to the incision and also minimizing blood loss during the procedure. For example one or more heavy gauge sutures may be passed around the shaft of the introducer in a continuous loop so that when it is all the way around the suture can be pulled tight like a noose or purse string to hold the surrounding tissue tightly around the introducer . To prevent the suture from tearing through the tissue each time the suture passes through tissue the suture also passes through a small pledget of woven polyester fabric. For example 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more purse string sutures each with 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more pledgets may be used to secure the introducer to the ventricle wall. In one embodiment 2 purse strings each purse string with 2 pledgets is used to secure the introducer to the left ventricle wall. In another embodiment 2 purse strings each purse string with 3 pledgets is used to secure the introducer to the left ventricle wall. In another embodiment 2 purse strings each purse string with 4 pledgets is used to secure the introducer to the left ventricle wall. In one embodiment 4 purse strings each purse string with 2 pledgets is used to secure the introducer to the left ventricle wall. One of skill in the art will readily appreciate the number of purse strings and pledgets to use in the methods described herein.

In one embodiment dilator may include at least one lumen configured to receive at least a portion of the third guide wire . For example the lumen may have an internal diameter of approximately 0.038 . The dilator may also comprise a shaft including a tapered tip region . The tip may be provided to facilitate advancing the tip into the puncture site in the apex as the dilator is introduced over the third guide wire . The shaft may comprise a plurality of segments or portions having different stiffness or hardness to produce the desired overall curvature. The shaft may be formed from one or more suitable polymers such as but not limited to a polyether block amide. The shaft may have a constant inner and or outer diameter and may be made from different materials to provide the various stiffness or hardness. Alternatively or in addition the shaft may have different inner and or outer diameters and may be made from one or more materials. For example the various stiffness or hardness of the shaft may be provided by varying the thickness of the shaft at the different segments or portions. The different hardness of the segments may provide differing degrees of bending stiffness to the dilator which may facilitate advancing the dilator into and or out of the left ventricle .

Because of the predetermined bend the distal end of the introducer and or dilator is generally aligned with the mitral valve . With this in mind once the introducer is positioned in the left ventricle the introducer may be advanced over the third guide wire until tip of dilator is present in left atrium . To facilitate this movement dilator may be configured to include a messenger balloon see which may be inflated to ease passage through the chordae . Because introducer and or dilator may be advanced over third guide wire however the use of such a messenger balloon is not required.

Once the introducer has been advanced through the mitral valve into the left atrium the dilator may be withdrawn over through introducer . This leaves the distal end of introducer and third guide wire present in left atrium as generally shown in . Third guide wire may then be withdrawn by drawing it proximally back through transseptal puncture and the vasculature of the patient or by drawing it distally through introducer and out of the patient through a thoracotomy or other incision. Upon withdrawal of third guide wire a distal end of introducer may be left in left atrium as generally shown in .

At this point an implant may be loaded into the introducer for example through the splitter as also shown in . Prior to loading the implant into the introducer the implant may be de aired. If entrapped air from the implant is allowed to be introduced into the patient s cardiovascular system the air may travel to the patient s brain or other parts of the patient s body where it may cause serious bodily harm and or death for example due to blood clotting or the like . As will be described later implant may include an elongated shaft that includes at least one lumen in fluid communication with an inflatable valve body comprising a spacer cavity . Implant may further include an anchor assembly To de air the implant a fluid such as but not limited to a saline solution or the like may be injected through the lumen into the spacer cavity to flush away and or remove any entrapped air before the implant is inserted into the introducer .

Shaft of implant may have a length that is substantially longer than the length of introducer and may extend outside the heart into a thoracic space and potentially out of the body of a patient e.g. through a thoracotomy or other incision even when implant is sited within the heart. For example the shaft may be long enough to allow a surgeon to manipulate the implant from outside of the patient s body while the implant is disposed within the left atrium mitral valve . The shaft may include generally flexible tubing such as but not limited to a poly tetrafluoroethylene PTFE tube defining a lumen. Optionally the exterior surface of the shaft may include a fabric sheath or the like configured to prevent blood clots from becoming dislodged off the shaft . The shaft may also optionally include one or more stiffeners not shown to provide the necessary amount of rigidity to the shaft such that it is able to maintain the position of the implant with respect to the mitral valve when installed. The stiffener may include for example braided mesh or the like.

According to one embodiment the shaft is secured to a handle assembly and the anchor assembly may be disposed proximate to the handle assembly as shown in . The handle assembly may be used to advance implant through the introducer until at least a portion of the implant e.g. a deflated inflatable valve body protrudes beyond the distal end of the introducer in the left atrium as generally illustrated in . Once a portion of the valve body of implant protrudes beyond the distal end of the introducer the introducer may be retracted slightly to allow the rest of the valve body to protrude beyond the distal end . The valve body may also be inflated using the handle assembly and pulled back from the left atrium and into the annulus of the mitral valve as generally illustrated in . The position of the implant within the annulus of the mitral valve may be determined using one or more markers on the implant e.g. radio opaque markers which may be visible under fluoroscopy. The distal end of the introducer is now disposed in the left ventricle . Contrast medium can be injected into the introducer to the left ventricle to verify if the mitral regurgitation has been significantly reduced by the action of the valve body engaging with the cusps of the mitral valve .

One example of the structure of implant is shown in . As noted previously implant includes shaft and an inflatable valve body . Inflatable valve body comprises a proximal end and a distal end. A distal end of the inflatable valve body is furthest from an opening . A proximal end of inflatable valve body is at or near opening . In some aspects one or more radiopaque markers are positioned at or near the proximal end of the inflatable valve body. In some aspects one or more radiopaque markers are positioned at or near the distal end of the inflatable valve body. In yet another aspect one or more radiopaque markers are positioned at or near the proximal and distal ends of the inflatable valve body. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art one or more radiopaque markers assist a physician to perform the methods described herein. Using known techniques e.g. x ray fluoroscopy etc. a physician can confirm correct placement of the implant in an individual.

Shaft includes a lumen which is in fluid communication with spacer cavity . In one embodiment shaft extends to at least a proximal end e.g. at or near opening of the inflatable valve body. In another embodiment shaft extends through a proximal end of the inflatable valve body . In another embodiment shaft is attached to a distal end of inflatable valve body and extends through a proximal end of the inflatable valve body. Any or all of the portions of implant may be formed from or biologically acceptable material for example Elast Eon material or the like. In some embodiments at least the walls of inflatable valve body are formed of a resiliently deformable biologically acceptable material.

A first e.g. proximal end of the wall of inflatable valve body may be coupled mounted integrally formed with or otherwise secured to a portion of the shaft . Implant may include an opening proximate to the point of connection with shaft and which may fluidly connect lumen of shaft with spacer cavity of inflatable valve body so as to allow an expansion medium such as but not limited to saline or the like into a spacer cavity from an inflation device as generally shown in . Inflation device may for example be handle assembly e.g. as shown in or an inflation port e.g. as shown in . In any case opening may be a component of the valve body and or may include an extension of the shaft .

The cavity may be defined by the opening and the wall of inflatable valve body . The distal end of the inflatable valve body may include an end plug configured to seal the distal end of valve body . Alternatively the distal end of inflatable valve body may be formed of a continuous piece of material such that spacer cavity is naturally sealed at the distal end of valve body .

As may be appreciated a surgeon may selectively expand and retract inflatable valve body and more specifically spacer cavity by injecting and withdrawing an expansion or inflation medium into and from spacer cavity e.g. via lumen . Once the spacer cavity is inflated to a desired degree the degree of inflation may be maintained by inflation device which may be configured to limit or prevent the withdrawal of expansion or inflation medium from spacer cavity by plugging or backstopping lumen at a proximal end of shaft .

Turning now to the implant is illustrated with the inflatable valve body within the heart. The shaft of the implant is disposed within the introducer e.g. a split catheter and coupled to the inflation device . The anchor assembly is also shown disposed proximate to the inflation device . The inflation device may include comprise or be coupled to a source of an expansion medium e.g. a plunger a syringe an inflation port etc. for injecting and withdrawing expansion medium inflation fluid into from body of implant via lumen in shaft . According a surgeon or physician may control the inflation e.g. injection and or withdrawal of expansion medium by appropriately controlling the influx or withdrawal of expansion medium from and to the source of expansion medium.

As noted previously a surgeon may use the inflation device e.g. a handle assembly to manipulate the implant such that the inflatable valve body is disposed within the mitral valve . The inflatable valve body may also be expanded to the desired size using the inflation device and an associated source of expansion medium. The spacer cavity may be sealed using the inflation device once the desired size of the inflatable valve body is determined.

After the operation of the inflatable valve body has been verified and the spacer cavity has been sealed the introducer may be removed from the shaft for example as generally illustrated in . For example the splitter may be used to split the introducer into two or more pieces along its length for example by pulling the two halves generally in the directions of arrows . As the introducer is split the introducer may be retracted from the heart through the puncture in the apex . The purse string sutures not shown for clarity may also be tightened as the introducer is removed from the puncture in the apex to minimize blood loss. Once the introducer has been removed from the shaft the anchor assembly may be advanced along the shaft until the anchor assembly is adjacent to and or abuts against the apex of the heart for example as generally illustrated in .

As shown in and generally described above inflation device may be in the form of an inflation handle assembly . Inflation handle assembly may include an inflation port not labeled which may be fluidly coupled to an expansion medium source such as a plunger syringe etc. as shown in . By appropriate manipulation of inflation handle assembly and or expansion medium source a surgeon may inject or withdraw expansion medium inflation fluid into and from spacer cavity of implant .

Alternatively or additionally inflation device may be in the form of an inflation e.g. injection port as generally illustrated in . In such instances inflation e.g. injection port comprises a septum and at least one e.g. one or more opening or lumen that is in fluid communication with lumen of shaft of implant . In some embodiments injection port is configured to allow for introduction of an expansion medium inflation fluid to lumen and inflatable valve body . In one embodiment injection port is in fluid communication with lumen and inflatable valve body .

Inflation e.g. injection port may be configured to seal lumen of shaft when it is not in use e.g. when a desired size operation of inflatable valve body has been achieved. To facilitate injection and or withdrawal of an expansion medium inflation fluid to and or from implant port comprises a septum . In some embodiments septum is a pierceable septum. In some embodiments septum is a self sealing septum. In some embodiments septum is pierceable and self sealing. For example septum may be pierced by a needle of a syringe whereafter the syringe may inject or withdraw an expansion medium into or from port and hence implant . One of skill in the art will readily appreciate that septum comprises any one of a number of suitable materials that allow septum to be pierceable and or self sealing e.g. to be pierced by a needle and self seal after the needle is withdrawn from the septum . For example septum comprises of any one or any combination of the following silicone silicone gels nitrile rubbers polyurethanes and thermoplastics. When the injection port is not in use e.g. a needle is not piercing the septum the injection port and septum are liquid and or air tight. Expansion medium e.g. a liquid and or gas contained within port lumen and inflatable valve body does not escape the implant. Any suitable ports may be used as injection port . For example in some embodiments the Primo Port commercially available from SyncMedical is used as injection port .

In some embodiments the expansion medium inflation fluid can be any suitable fluid such as for example saline. In one embodiments the expansion medium is a liquid. There are a number of suitable liquids that can be used to inflate inflatable valve body . For example normal saline phosphate buffered saline PBS Ringer s solution water e.g. sterilized deionized etc. contrast medium e.g. iodine barium can be used as an expansion medium. In one embodiment the expansion medium comprises water. In one embodiment the expansion medium comprises a contrast medium. In another embodiment the contrast medium comprises an iodine based contrast medium. In another embodiment the contrast medium comprises a barium based contrast medium.

In another embodiment the expansion medium is a gel. In another embodiment the expansion medium is a gas. In one embodiment the gas comprises air. In another embodiment the gas comprises CO carbon dioxide . In another embodiment the gas comprises N nitrogen .

In some embodiments inflation e.g. injection port is implanted in a patient e.g. so as to permit long term adjustment capability to implant e.g. by adding more or removing a portion of the inflation fluid . In such instances the injection port may be formed from biocompatible materials. In some embodiments the injection port comprises materials with other mechanical and physiological properties that would be beneficial in the devices and methods described herein. Additional properties for example may include hypoallergenic anti inflammatory and anti microbial. One of skill in art will readily appreciate that injection port may be implanted in a patient in such a manner to allow a physician to easily gain access to the injection port e.g. subdermally or subcutaneously . In some embodiments injection port further comprises one or more suture holes to allow the injection port to be secured with sutures.

With reference to the injection port can be implanted subdermally in an individual. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art injection port can be secured below the skin line e.g. subdermally subcutaneously etc. in any number of anatomic locations. In one embodiment the injection port is at or near the chest wall. In another embodiment the injection port is implanted subdermally and positioned at or near the chest wall near the apex of the heart of an individual. In an embodiment injection port is at or near the abdomen. In another embodiment injection port is implanted transdermally in an individual.

With reference again to the heart valve implant is shown secured to an exterior surface of the apex of the heart by anchor assembly . Once the anchor assembly is secured to the heart the shaft may be sealed proximal to the anchor assembly and the shaft may be cut proximal to the seal. Alternatively or additionally shaft may remain sealed by an inflation device e.g. inflation port in which case subsequent adjustment of the inflation of implant may be permitted. As noted previously the inflation device e.g. inflation port may itself be implanted e.g. subdermally within the patient e.g. in instances where long term adjustment of the inflation of implant may be desired. In some aspects when implant is installed inflatable valve body is configured to interact and or cooperate with e.g. engage at least a portion of the native mitral valve e.g. the cusps to reduce and or eliminate regurgitation. As such the configuration and or geometries of the implant and in particular inflatable valve body may vary depending upon the particulars of the condition of the patient s mitral valve and the damage thereto. In addition the implant e.g. the inflatable valve body and or the shaft may have sufficient overall rigidity to maintain the inflatable valve body within the mitral valve such that the implant performs its function as intended.

Turning now to one embodiment of an inflation handle assembly is generally illustrated. A proximal end of the shaft may be secured either permanently or releasably to a portion of the inflation handle assembly . For example the shaft may be hermetically sealed and coupled to inflation handle assembly using one or more seals . The body of the inflation handle assembly includes an inflation port which is fluidly coupled to the lumen of the shaft . The inflation port is configured to be secured to an inflation source e.g. but not limited to a plunger syringe or the like not shown for providing the expansion medium to the spacer cavity as described herein.

The plunger wire extends from the lumen of the shaft and passes through the body of the inflation handle assembly . One more seals may be provided to seal the body to the plunger wire as the plunger wire passes through the body . The proximal end of the plunger wire is optionally secured to a translator . The translator which may include a ring slide knob or the like may be configured to move with respect to the body to push or pull the plunger wire within lumen and thus seal or unseal lumen . For example when the translator is in the position illustrated in the plunger wire may be disposed within the lumen of shaft and thus lumen may be sealed. When the translator is in the position illustrated in the plunger wire may be at least partially withdrawn from the proximal end of shaft thus unsealing lumen and permitting the injection withdrawal of expansion medium withdrawal of plunger wire not shown for clarity .

The inflation handle assembly may optionally include one or more handle features extending from the body that are configured to facilitate handling of the inflation handle assembly with one hand. For example the inflation handle assembly may include two handle features disposed on generally opposite sides of the body each of which is configured to receive a different one of a user s fingers for example the pointer and middle fingers respectively . The translator may feature a ring configured to receive a user s thumb. With this arrangement the surgeon may grip the inflation handle assembly with a single hand and translate the translator back and forth to urge the plunger wire into and out of lumen of shaft . This arrangement allows the surgeon to control the sealing and unsealing of lumen and may permit the surgeon to control an expansion medium source with his other hand.

Turning now to various views of one embodiment of an anchor assembly are generally illustrated. The anchor assembly as best seen in which is a cross sectional view taken along line B B of includes a clamp ring a collar a nut an anchor support and optionally a felt pad . The anchor assembly defines a passageway extending therethrough which is configured to receive and be advanced over the shaft of the implant . The clamp ring collar and nut are configured to define a compression fitting around a perimeter of the shaft thereby securing the anchor assembly to the shaft . In particular once the anchor assembly is in place e.g. abutting against the tissue surround the incision site proximate to the apex the surgeon holds the anchor support while rotating the nut thereby compressing the clamp ring and the collar to apply a radially compressive force against the shaft . The radially compressive force secures the anchor assembly to the shaft . For illustrative purposes the anchor support may have a length L of 0.875 cm and thickness T of 0.030 cm and the passageway may have a diameter D of 0.116 cm.

To secure the anchor assembly to the heart the anchor support may be sutured to the heart tissue. The anchor support may include one or more openings and or arms over which one or more sutures not shown for clarity may be passed to stitch the anchor support to the heart tissue and secure the anchor assembly . The mounting surface of the anchor support may have a curvature which substantially corresponds to the curvature of the heart tissue proximate to the incision site about the apex . The anchor support may optionally be coated covered wrapped with pledget material. The pledget material facilitates tissue to grow over the anchor support thereby further enhancing the connection between the anchor assembly and the heart.

Other anchor assemblies can be used to secure the implant to the heart. For example a one or more prongs barbs staples clamps and or helical screws can be used to secure the implant to the heart.

As described herein the method of delivering a heart valve implant within in a heart is achieved by a variety of procedures. In one embodiment the method comprises trans apically delivering a heart valve implant within a heart. With reference to the trans apical system and method includes gaining access to the left ventricle .

One of skill in the art will readily appreciate that one or more purse string sutures are in place before performing the methods described herein. In one embodiment one or more purse string sutures and or pledgets are secured at or near the apex of the heart before hollow needle is inserted through the apex of the left ventricle not shown in . The purse string sutures and or pledgets see are configured to minimize the potential for accidentally tearing the heart tissue proximate to the incision and also minimize blood loss during the procedure.

To prevent the suture from tearing through the tissue each time the suture passes through tissue the suture also passes through a small pledget of woven polyester fabric. For example 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more purse string sutures each with 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or more pledgets may be used to secure the heart so that hollow needle is inserted through apex . In one embodiment 2 purse strings each purse string with 2 pledgets is used to secure the heart. In another embodiment 2 purse strings each purse string with 3 pledgets is used to secure the heart. In another embodiment 2 purse strings each purse string with 4 pledgets is used to secure the heart. In one embodiment 4 purse strings each purse string with 2 pledgets is used to secure the heart. One of skill in the art will readily appreciate the number of purse strings and pledgets to use in the methods described herein.

Referring to once one or more purse string sutures with one or more pledgets are in place a hollow needle which may be coupled to a needle hub is inserted through the apex of the left ventricle and into the left ventricle . Once access has been achieved to the left ventricle a guide wire is introduced through the lumen of the hollow needle into the left ventricle as illustrated in . The guide wire may include for example a 1 32 wire and may optionally form a curved pig tail like shape after the guide wire exits the lumen of the hollow needle in the left ventricle .

With the guide wire in the left ventricle the hollow needle is removed from heart leaving the guide wire remaining in the left ventricle as illustrated in . The guide wire may be used as a pathway for advancing other instruments and devices into the heart . For example an introducer and or dilator may be advanced along the guide wire into the left ventricle as generally illustrated in .

The distal end of the shaft of the introducer may be beveled to aid in passing the introducer through incision in the apex . The introducer may also feature a predefined bend . The predefined bend is formed in the introducer during the manufacturing of the introducer and is configured to facilitate alignment of the distal end of the introducer with the mitral valve . Without the bend e.g. if the introducer was just linear it would be very difficult to align the tip of the introducer with the mitral valve and between the two papillary muscles and into the outflow tract of the mitral valve . While the bend curvature does not appear to be perfectly aligned with the mitral valve this is due in part to the three dimensional path which is not readily shown in a two dimensional drawings. The bend may be disposed at an angle of approximately 20 to 40 degrees for example 30 degrees from the longitudinal axis of the main portion of the introducer extending outwardly from the incision in the apex .

The introducer may optionally include a splitter also referred to as the introducer hub configured to longitudinally split the shaft of the introducer such that the introducer forms a split catheter which can be easily removed while allowing an object within the lumen of the introducer e.g. the guidewire and or a portion of the implant to remain within the lumen of the introducer . The splitter may include a seal configured to allow another device and or lumen to be selectively and removably sealed and or advanced through the to the splitter into the lumen of the introducer .

For example the splitter introducer hub may include at least two parts namely an outer shell made of a polymer that has been molded in such a way as to provide a preferential and controlled break away seam and the inner seal made of silicone rubber also with a molded break away seam. The outer shell and silicone seal are mechanically connected so that the break away seams are both positioned along the same axis as the shaft lumen of the introducer . The splitter introducer hub is mechanically connected to the proximal end of the introducer s tubular shaft. When the handles of the outer shell of the splitter introducer hub are actuated in opposite directions with sufficient force rotating away from the axis of the introducer toward the distal end of the introducer the preferential break away seams of the outer shell and of the inner seal of the splitter introducer hub permanently separate and propagate a tear in the wall of the tube of the introducer . Continuing to further separate the handles of the splitter introducer hub in turn continues to advance the tear in the tube of the introducer . The user continues to separate the handles tearing the tube until the tear reached the distal end of the tube and completes the axial separation of the introducer .

One embodiment of a dilator may include define at least one lumen configured to receive at least a portion of the delivery guide wire . For example the lumen may have an internal diameter of approximately 0.038 . The dilator may also comprise a shaft including a tapered tip region . The tapered distal tip may be provided to facilitate advancing the tip into the puncture site in the apex as the dilator is introduced over the delivery guide wire . The shaft may comprise a plurality of segments or portions having different stiffness or hardness to produce the desired overall curvature. The shaft may be formed from one or more suitable polymers such as but not limited to a polyether block amide. The shaft may have a constant inner and or outer diameter and may be made from different materials to provide the various stiffness or hardness. Alternatively or in addition the shaft may have different inner and or outer diameters and may be made from one or more materials. For example the various stiffness or hardness of the shaft may be provided by varying the thickness of the shaft at the different segments or portions. The different hardness of the segments may provide differing degrees of bending stiffness to the dilator which may facilitate advancing the dilator into and or out of the left ventricle .

Once the introducer is positioned in the left ventricle the guidewire may be removed leaving the introducer and dilator in the left ventricle as generally illustrated in . Because of the predetermined bend the distal end of the introducer and or dilator is generally aligned with the mitral valve . A deflated inflatable valve body balloon may be advanced through the lumen of the introducer and or dilator until at least a portion of the inflatable valve body exits the distal end of the introducer and or dilator as generally illustrated in the dilator is shown retracted into the introducer for clarity . A shaft of the heart valve implant may include indicia for indicating the position of the inflatable valve body relative to the introducer . For example when the indicia which may include the proximal end of a fabric covering the shaft is aligned with and or protrudes a few millimeters from the splitter about 1 cm of the inflatable valve body is protruding from the end of the introducer .

The inflatable valve body when partially expanded is configured to facilitate atraumatic advancement of the introducer and or dilator through the mitral valve without damaging the mitral valve or becoming entangled in the mitral valve for example the cusps the chordae and or papillary muscles of the mitral valve . The inflatable valve body may be disposed proximate the distal end region of a shaft and may be fluidly coupled through the shaft to an expansion medium such as but not limited to a gas and or liquid which may expand and or enlarge the inflatable valve body from the deflated or retracted position as generally illustrated in to the inflated or expanded position as generally illustrated in note that the inflatable valve body is only partially extending from the introducer . The inflatable valve body forms a soft tip which serves as an atraumatic bumper tip to minimize the risk of damaging or even irritating the delicate lining endocardium of the left ventricle . Physical contact with the left ventricle can cause a dangerous arrhythmia. According to at least one embodiment the expansion medium may include carbon dioxide CO gas saline or water. Optionally contrast media may be introduced into the inflatable valve body to allow the inflatable valve body to be located using fluoroscopy or the like. In some embodiments the contrast media coats the inside surface of the inflatable valve body so that an outline of the entire inflatable valve body is observed.

The inflatable valve body may include a resiliently expandable collapsible material such as but not limited to silicone Yulex or the like which may be selectively collapsed and or expanded. The inflatable valve body may be bonded to the shaft and may include one or more passageways apertures or lumens to allow the expansion medium to expand collapse the inflatable valve body . The diameter of the inflatable valve body should be small enough in the first or retracted collapsed position through the introducer and or dilator to the left ventricle and large enough when in the second or expanded inflated position to be advanced through the cusps and chordae of the mitral valve to reduce the potential of damaging the heart and or getting entangled within the mitral valve . For example the shaft may have an outer diameter of approximately 0.062 e.g. a 5 Fr . In one embodiment the inflatable valve body has a diameter of approximately 0.01 inches to 0.50 inches in the first position. In another embodiment the inflatable valve body has a diameter of approximately 0.05 to 0.25 inches in the first position. In one embodiment the inflatable valve body has approximately a 0.100 in the first position. In another embodiment the inflatable valve body has a diameter of approximately 15 mm to approximately 20 mm in the second position with a length of approximately 8 to approximately 10 mm.

The inflatable valve body is advanced towards the mitral valve as generally illustrated in . As can be seen the bend in the introducer helps to get the introducer correctly orientated spatially to find the space between the two papillary muscles and avoid the chordae. As noted above the limitations of the two dimensional figures do not completely convey the advantage of the bend . With the inflatable valve body proximate to the mitral valve the inflatable valve body may be advanced through the mitral valve . The backflow from the left ventricle through the mitral valve into the left atrium even for a normal mitral valve helps pull the inflated inflatable valve body into the mitral space such that the inflatable valve body may ultimately be advanced into the left atrium as generally illustrated in . The introducer and the dilator may then be advanced into the left atrium .

As previously described placement of the inflatable valve body is confirmed with one or more radiopaque markers and or contrast media within the inflatable valve body using fluoroscopy.

After delivery of the heart valve implant as described herein the inflatable valve body is configured to reduce or restrict the amount of blood flow i.e. regurgitation through the valve in a closed position. In some embodiments about 100 of the blood flow mitral valve regurgitation through the valve in a closed position is eliminated reduced or restricted i.e. treated . In other words after delivery of the heart valve implant there is little to no mitral valve regurgitation. In other embodiments less than 100 i.e 99 98 97 96 95 90 85 80 75 70 65 60 55 50 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 4 3 2 1 or less of the mitral valve regurgitation is eliminated reduced or restricted i.e. treated . As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the amount of reduction of mitral valve regurgitation is adjusted with the amount of expansion medium inflation fluid injected into injection port . The amount volume of expansion medium within the inflatable valve body affects the amount of blood flow through the valve in a closed position that occurs.

In some embodiments the method of trans apically delivering a heart valve implant within a heart further comprises adjusting the amount e.g. volume of inflation fluid within the inflatable valve body to eliminate reduce or restrict i.e. treat the amount of blood flow when the heart valves are in a closed position or the amount regurgitation. The reduction restriction or elimination of an amount of blood flow when the heart valves are in a closed position or the amount of regurgitation can be measured as a percentage e.g. reduction from a baseline a volume e.g. milliliters liters etc. or another appropriate unit of measure. It will be apparent to one of skill in the art that a 100 reduction of regurgitation immediately after delivery of the heart valve implant may not be the most effective treatment for certain patients or individuals. It will also be apparent to one of skill in the art that a 100 reduction or complete elimination of regurgitation after all treatments may not be the most effective as well. In some embodiments a gradual reduction of regurgitation through the heart valve implant occurs over a period of time and is performed with one more treatments e.g. adjustments of the inflatable valve body .

In one embodiment the heart valve implant causes a reduction of blood flow when the heart valves are in a closed position of at least 1 to about 100 . In another embodiment the reduction of regurgitation is about 5 to about 90 . In another embodiment the reduction is about 10 to about 80 . In another embodiment the reduction is about 15 to about 70 . In another embodiment the reduction is about 20 to about 60 . In another embodiment the reduction is about 25 to about 50 . In another embodiment the reduction is about 30 to about 60 . In another embodiment the reduction is about 1 about 5 about 10 about 15 about 20 about 25 about 30 about 35 about 40 about 45 about 50 about 55 about 60 about 65 about 70 about 75 about 80 about 85 about 90 or about 95 . In some embodiments gradually correcting the blood flow when the heart valves are in a closed position allows the cardiopulmonary system and or other organ systems to adjust to the physiological changes e.g. increased cardiac output and ejection fraction as a result of the reduced regurgitation.

In some embodiments the methods described herein comprise reducing restricting or eliminating regurgitation that occurs over one or more e.g. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more treatments. As used herein a treatment comprises any intervention that affects the cardiovascular system in an individual. In one embodiment a treatment comprises adjusting the inflatable valve body via the injection inflation port with an expansion medium. In another embodiment a treatment comprises adjusting the position of the heart valve implant within the heart. In another embodiment a treatment comprises adjusting the inflatable valve body via the injection inflation port with an expansion medium and adjusting the position of the heart valve implant within the heart.

In some embodiments the method further comprises one or more treatments administered over a period of time. It will be readily apparent to one of skill in the art any number of treatments and any period of time between each treatment are possible. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every one or more e.g. 2 3 4 5 6 7 7 8 9 10 or more days. In another embodiment each treatment is administered every other day e.g. every 2 days . In another embodiment each treatment is administered every 3 days. In another embodiment each treatment is administered every 4 days. In another embodiment each treatment is administered every 5 days. In another embodiment each treatment is administered every 6 days. In another embodiment each treatment is administered every 7 days week . In another embodiment each treatment is administered every one or more e.g. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more weeks. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every other week. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every 3 weeks. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every 4 weeks. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every 5 weeks. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every 6 weeks. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every 7 weeks. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every 8 weeks. In another embodiment each treatment is administered every one or more months e.g. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 or more . In one embodiment each treatment is administered every other month. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every 3 months. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every 4 months. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every 5 months. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every 6 months. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every 7 months. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every 8 months. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every 9 months. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every 10 months. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every 11 months. In one embodiment each treatment is administered every 12 months. In one embodiment each treatment is administered once every year or more. In another embodiment the period of time between each treatment varies.

By way of example after delivery of the heart valve implant the inflatable valve body is inflated so that about a 10 30 reduction of regurgitation is corrected in the first treatment. After a period of time e.g. one or more days one or more weeks or one or more months the inflatable valve body is further adjusted i.e. inflated so that an additional 10 30 of the regurgitation is corrected in a second treatment. Since the inflation injection port is subdermally located in a patient access and inflation of the inflatable valve body is performed without the need of an additional surgery. After an additional period of time e.g. one or more days one or more weeks or one or more months the inflatable valve body is even further expanded i.e. inflated so that an additional 10 30 of the regurgitation is reduced in a third treatment. In some embodiments individuals with the heart valve implant are routinely monitored and treatments are modified or altered as necessary. At the end of the one or more treatments all 100 or a portion less than 100 of the regurgitation is corrected. One of skill in the art will readily appreciate that the treatment scheduling and amount of treatment administered i.e. reduction of regurgitation will vary from individual to individual.

The methods and implants described herein are used for the treatment of mitral valve regurgitation. The cause or underlying etiology of the mitral valve regurgitation may be known or unknown idiopathic . For example mitral valve prolapse damaged tissue cords cordae tendineae rheumatic fever endocarditis age related regurgitation myocardial infarction hypertension and congenital heart defects can all cause mitral valve regurgitation.

According to one aspect the present disclosure features a trans apical implant. The implant includes an inflatable valve body defining spacer cavity configured to be expanded from a retracted position a shaft extending from the inflatable valve body the shaft defining an inflation lumen fluidly coupled to the spacer cavity and fluidly coupled to an inflation device. The inflation device can seal said inflation lumen and can allow selectively introducing allow an expansion medium inflation fluid to flow into the spacer cavity so as to selectively expand the spacer body from a retracted position to an expanded position. Alternatively the inflation device can be used to extract at least a portion of an expansion medium from the spacer cavity. Thus the inflation device allows adjusting the degree of expansion of the spacer body.

According to another aspect the present disclosure features an implant delivery system. The implant delivery system includes an introducer having at least one lumen and an implant. The implant is configured to be received in the lumen and includes an inflatable valve body and a shaft. The inflatable valve body defines spacer cavity configured to be expanded from a retracted position while disposed within the lumen of the introducer. The shaft is configured to extend from the spacer and defines an inflation lumen fluidly coupled to the spacer cavity and fluidly coupled to an inflation device.

According to yet another aspect the present disclosure provides a method of implanting an implant within a heart. The implant includes a shaft and an inflatable valve body configured to interact with at least a portion of at least one cusp of a mitral valve to at least partially restrict a flow of blood through the heart valve in a closed position. The method includes trans septally advancing a guide wire to left ventricle of the heart piercing the left ventricle at a puncture site corresponding to an implant site advancing a distal end of the guide wire through the puncture and out of an incision in the torso of a patient trans apically advancing an introducer over the guide wire through the incision into the puncture site of the heart and into the left ventricle advancing the introducer over the guide wire through the mitral valve into a left atrium of the heart advancing the implant through a lumen defined by the introducer into the left atrium wherein the shaft extends within the lumen from the spacer and beyond the puncture site introducing an expansion medium inflation fluid through the shaft to expand the inflatable valve body locating the inflatable valve body within a mitral valve of the heart to reduce and in some cases eliminating mitral regurgitation removing the introducer from the heart and securing the implant to an external surface of the heart proximate to the puncture site.

As mentioned above the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to a system or method which must satisfy one or more of any stated or implied object or feature of the present disclosure and should not be limited to the preferred exemplary or primary embodiment s described herein. The foregoing description of a preferred embodiment of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present disclosure to the precise form disclosed. Obvious modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiment was chosen and described to provide the best illustration of the principles of the present disclosure and its practical application to thereby enable one of ordinary skill in the art to utilize the present disclosure in various embodiments and with various modifications as is suited to the particular use contemplated. All such modifications and variations are within the scope of the present disclosure as determined by the claims when interpreted in accordance with breadth to which they are fairly legally and equitably entitled.

