---

title: Managing and using shareable search lists
abstract: Methods, systems, and articles of manufacture for managing and using shareable search lists are provided herein. A method includes generating a search list associated with a first user, wherein said search list comprises an identification of one or more sites pertaining to a given topic; managing said search list in accordance with (i) one or more instructions provided by said first user, and (ii) one or more access control policies associated with one or more additional users; and sharing said search list associated with said first user with one or more additional users based on the one or more access control policies associated with one or more additional users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09342586&OS=09342586&RS=09342586
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09342586
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140203
---
Embodiments of the invention generally relate to information technology and more particularly to search engine technology.

Users of a search engine often believe that more precise results can be obtained if the results are restricted to certain sites and or repositories that may be related to a given domain topic organization etc. Such a scenario might be found for example in an enterprise search scenario wherein related content is accumulated in communities that are owned by departments and or expert groups within the enterprise. In a web search a parallel may be drawn for example in connection with discussion forums working groups social communities etc.

Domain specific search engines provide a solution for focusing on specific repositories for fetching more targeted search results. However building such search engines for a particular domain involves significant costs. Another existing approach includes filtering search results by selecting sites of interest through a faceted search interface. However repeating such a process for each search is labor intensive.

Yet another existing approach for filtering search results includes using tags. However all pages associated with a given site may not always receive tags especially for instances of active sites such as communities and or forums wherein pages are continuously added.

Accordingly a need exists for techniques directed to collaborative generation and management of search lists.

In one aspect of the present invention techniques for managing and using shareable search lists are provided. An exemplary computer implemented method can include steps of generating a search list associated with a first user wherein said search list comprises an identification of one or more sites pertaining to a given topic managing said search list in accordance with i one or more instructions provided by said first user and ii one or more access control policies associated with one or more additional users and sharing said search list associated with said first user with one or more additional users based on the one or more access control policies associated with one or more additional users.

In another aspect of the invention an exemplary computer implemented method can include steps of maintaining multiple search lists associated with multiple users wherein each of said search lists comprises an identification of one or more sites pertaining to a given topic communicating one or more of the multiple search lists to a first user in response to a search query submitted by the first user executing the search query exclusively on sites identified in a search list selected by the first user from among the one or more identified search lists and suggesting one or more additional sites for one or more of the multiple search lists.

Another aspect of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of an article of manufacture tangibly embodying computer readable instructions which when implemented cause a computer to carry out a plurality of method steps as described herein. Furthermore another aspect of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of an apparatus including a memory and at least one processor that is coupled to the memory and configured to perform noted method steps. Yet further another aspect of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of means for carrying out the method steps described herein or elements thereof the means can include hardware module s or a combination of hardware and software modules wherein the software modules are stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or multiple such media .

These and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments thereof which is to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings.

As described herein an aspect of the present invention includes managing and implementing shareable search lists SLs . At least one embodiment of the invention includes implementing capabilities in a search engine to allow users to create and or maintain topic specific personal lists of sites to restrict searches to pages within sites contained in such lists and to share search lists with other users of the search engine. As used herein the term site refers to a collection of one or more logically related pages such as for example a website or items of content derived from notes databases team rooms etc.

As also detailed herein at least one embodiment of the invention includes collaborative editing of search lists automatically suggesting entries to augment a search list and reusing search lists of experts in an area. One or more embodiments of the invention can additionally include searching for and or identifying expertise of users based on commonalities in search lists and suggesting contacts based on shared interests across users. Further topics can be identified from terms that co occur in search lists across users.

Further depicts the search list management module which represents the user interface to manage search list information and a search list store which includes a database for storing search list information that provides and receives input from the search list management module . A search list record contained within the search list store can include for example entries that identify a search list identifier ID a creator user ID a search list name a list of search list sites and access control lists that define who can view and or update a search list for example the user s social contacts all registered users of the search engine etc. .

The CRUD component includes a user interface and associated services that enable a user to i add new records in the search list store and mark such records against his or her profile ii read the current set of search lists in his or her profile from the search list store iii modify his or her search list records by editing one or more fields for example search list name list of sites access control etc. and iv remove one or more search lists stored against his or her user profile. The browse component allows users to search and browse for other search lists saved against profiles of other users. Note that a user can only see a search list created by another user if such a read is permitted by the access control policies defined for that search list. For instance in at least one example embodiment of the invention a user can view all public search lists or search lists from his or her contacts that are visible to contacts only. A suggestions component recommends search lists to a user that contain sites on topics similar to those present in the user s own search lists. The suggestions component leverages an expertise and or topic modeling component that can derive the set of trending topics in the content of the set of sites in any search list.

Additionally when the user issues one or more keywords to invoke a search on the search engine an option is provided to restrict the results to the set of sites defined in one or more search lists available. Upon issuance of a search query the query generation module receives the set of sites for the selected search list from the search list store . The site field filter component within the query generation module uses this information to rewrite the original search query to restrict the query to only those sites that are part of at least one of the selected search list s . The query generation module sends this augmented query to a query processing module which as further described below ultimately produces a set of focused and or targeted search results .

A document emitted by the crawling and document processing module can include a collection of named fields each of which has a piece of text. The indexing module converts the information present in a collection of such documents into an inverted index . At least one embodiment of the invention includes the addition of a uniquely named field site for each document that is indexed. The value of the site field as added by component can include the identifier of the site from where the document originates. When the user issues a query the query processing module invokes the augmented query with the site field filter included to generate the set of targeted search results .

As also noted in the example embodiment depicted in user profile management module search list management module and query generation module are identified as modules in a search engine or a browser plug in. Similarly crawling and processing module indexing module and query processing module are identified as modules in a search engine.

As described herein at least one embodiment of the invention includes managing search lists which can include creating updating and or deleting search lists owned or provided by a user. By way of example a user can create a new search list or update an existing search list in his or her profile for instance via user profile management module as depicted in . Actions associated with such management can include editing the given name for a search list editing a site list name uniform resource locator URL and editing an access control list. At least one embodiment of the invention also includes determining read and or write permissions for contacts and or any registered user. Additionally managing search lists can further include enabling a user to delete any search list created by him or her.

Searching browsing and editing search lists owned and or provided by others can include the implementation of multiple user capabilities. For example in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention a user can search for search lists for which s he has read access. This can further include searching for search lists via search list name and or via site name s searching for search lists of contacts only and or searching for search lists of experts whose expertise profile contains one or more keywords. Additionally a user can be enabled to add new sites to a search list for which s he has write access.

At least one embodiment of the invention can also include implementing capability for suggesting sites for one or more search lists. By way of example when a user with write access for a search list browses the search list the system can suggest the inclusion of a site for the search list. Such suggestions can include for example a recommendation to include sites that are included in one or more other search lists that share a commonality in site lists with the search list being browsed. Additionally such suggestions can include a recommendation to include sites that show a significant match in names and content to sites of the search list being browsed as well as sites from search lists of experts whose profiles demonstrate a match to topics manifested in the sites of the search list being browsed.

At least one embodiment of the invention can also include leveraging a link between sites as defined by co occurrence in search lists to create and or refine topic models and topical communities that may be used to suggest contacts to users. One example embodiment for finding topical communities is described below. Consider an entity relationship graph wherein nodes may represent sites and any two sites that co occur in at least one search list are connected through an edge. If graph partitioning algorithms are run on such a graph groups of sites that share common topics can be determined. Similarly expertise models can be generated for users based on the contents of the users search lists.

In using search lists an aspect of the invention includes adding a site field to documents that are indexed during an indexing phase as noted above. Such a site field in a document can take multiple string values a list of URLs for example and the strings may not be tokenized during indexing. By way of illustration consider the following example embodiments.

In one example embodiment of the invention crawling can be carried out one site at a time that is all pages of a site are crawled together and the site URL is added to the site field in all pages of that site. In another example embodiment of the invention a crawler component can move from one site to another following links on the given pages. In such an embodiment all prefix strings of the page URL that end in a can be added to the site field. Such an example embodiment of the invention can also include identifying one or more breadcrumbs of links on a given webpage wherein a breadcrumb conveys a site s hierarchical structure to help browse back to a higher level in the hierarchy. Accordingly each of such URLs can be added to the site field for the document.

Yet another example embodiment of the invention can include using platform specific application programming interfaces APIs to locate and or identify parent page or site URLs for a given page which can then be added as the value for the site field.

Further at least one embodiment of the invention includes augmenting a query by adding filter clauses to match sites during query generation. By way of example given a user s selection of a search list at least one embodiment of the invention can include augmenting the query by adding one or more filters on the site field. Such a filter can include for example an instruction to retrieve the set of site URLs U U U . . . U contained in the selected search list. Accordingly augmenting a query might include for example the following Original Query AND Site UOR Site UOR . . . Site U .

Step includes managing said search list in accordance with i one or more instructions provided by said first user and ii one or more access control policies associated with one or more additional users. Managing can include editing the name indicative of content in the one or more sites pertaining to the given topic. Additionally managing can include specifying an access control list against each of the one or more sites in the search list wherein the access control list includes an identification of one or more contacts of the first user having read and or write privileges associated with said search list as well as an identification of a user of a given search engine having read and or write privileges associated with said search list. Further in one or more embodiments of the invention managing includes editing the access control list.

As also detailed herein in at least one embodiment of the invention managing can include managing the search list in a web browser and or in a search engine. Additionally managing can include deleting the identification of the one or more sites pertaining to the given topic deleting a site from the identification of the one or more sites pertaining to the given topic adding a site to the identification of the one or more sites pertaining to the given topic and or adding an additional identification of one or more sites pertaining to a given topic.

Step includes sharing said search list associated with said first user with one or more additional users based on the one or more access control policies associated with one or more additional users. The techniques depicted in can also include managing said search list in accordance with one or more instructions provided by a second user. Managing the search list in accordance with one or more instructions provided by a second user can include suggesting inclusion of a site to the identification of the one or more sites pertaining to the given topic. Further managing the search list in accordance with one or more instructions provided by a second user comprises adding a site to the identification of the one or more sites pertaining to the given topic.

The techniques depicted in and can also as described herein include providing a system wherein the system includes distinct software modules each of the distinct software modules being embodied on a tangible computer readable recordable storage medium. All of the modules or any subset thereof can be on the same medium or each can be on a different medium for example. The modules can include any or all of the components shown in the figures and or described herein. In an aspect of the invention the modules can run for example on a hardware processor. The method steps can then be carried out using the distinct software modules of the system as described above executing on a hardware processor. Further a computer program product can include a tangible computer readable recordable storage medium with code adapted to be executed to carry out at least one method step described herein including the provision of the system with the distinct software modules.

An aspect of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of an apparatus including a memory and at least one processor that is coupled to the memory and configured to perform exemplary method steps.

Additionally an aspect of the present invention can make use of software running on a general purpose computer or workstation. With reference to such an implementation might employ for example a processor a memory and an input output interface formed for example by a display and a keyboard . The term processor as used herein is intended to include any processing device such as for example one that includes a CPU central processing unit and or other forms of processing circuitry. Further the term processor may refer to more than one individual processor. The term memory is intended to include memory associated with a processor or CPU such as for example RAM random access memory ROM read only memory a fixed memory device for example hard drive a removable memory device for example diskette a flash memory and the like. In addition the phrase input output interface as used herein is intended to include for example a mechanism for inputting data to the processing unit for example mouse and a mechanism for providing results associated with the processing unit for example printer . The processor memory and input output interface such as display and keyboard can be interconnected for example via bus as part of a data processing unit . Suitable interconnections for example via bus can also be provided to a network interface such as a network card which can be provided to interface with a computer network and to a media interface such as a diskette or CD ROM drive which can be provided to interface with media .

Accordingly computer software including instructions or code for performing the methodologies of the invention as described herein may be stored in associated memory devices for example ROM fixed or removable memory and when ready to be utilized loaded in part or in whole for example into RAM and implemented by a CPU. Such software could include but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode and the like.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus . The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual implementation of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during implementation.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices and the like can be coupled to the system either directly such as via bus or through intervening I O controllers omitted for clarity .

Network adapters such as network interface may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modems and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

As used herein including the claims a server includes a physical data processing system for example system as shown in running a server program. It will be understood that such a physical server may or may not include a display and keyboard.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method and or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore as noted herein aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product that may include a computer readable storage medium or media having computer readable program instructions thereon for causing a processor to carry out aspects of the present invention.

The computer readable storage medium can be a tangible device that can retain and store instructions for use by an instruction execution device. The computer readable storage medium may be for example but is not limited to an electronic storage device a magnetic storage device an optical storage device an electromagnetic storage device a semiconductor storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. A non exhaustive list of more specific examples of the computer readable storage medium includes the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a static random access memory SRAM a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD a memory stick a floppy disk a mechanically encoded device such as punch cards or raised structures in a groove having instructions recorded thereon and any suitable combination of the foregoing. A computer readable storage medium as used herein is not to be construed as being transitory signals per se such as radio waves or other freely propagating electromagnetic waves electromagnetic waves propagating through a waveguide or other transmission media for example light pulses passing through a fiber optic cable or electrical signals transmitted through a wire.

Computer readable program instructions described herein can be downloaded to respective computing processing devices from a computer readable storage medium or to an external computer or external storage device via a network for example the Internet a local area network a wide area network and or a wireless network. The network may comprise copper transmission cables optical transmission fibers wireless transmission routers firewalls switches gateway computers and or edge servers. A network adapter card or network interface in each computing processing device receives computer readable program instructions from the network and forwards the computer readable program instructions for storage in a computer readable storage medium within the respective computing processing device.

Computer readable program instructions for carrying out operations of the present invention may be assembler instructions instruction set architecture ISA instructions machine instructions machine dependent instructions microcode firmware instructions state setting data or either source code or object code written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The computer readable program instructions may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . In some embodiments electronic circuitry including for example programmable logic circuitry field programmable gate arrays FPGA or programmable logic arrays PLA may execute the computer readable program instructions by utilizing state information of the computer readable program instructions to personalize the electronic circuitry in order to perform aspects of the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer readable program instructions.

These computer readable program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. These computer readable program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable storage medium that can direct a computer a programmable data processing apparatus and or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the computer readable storage medium having instructions stored therein comprises an article of manufacture including instructions which implement aspects of the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer readable program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other device to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer other programmable apparatus or other device implement the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of instructions which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . In some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or carry out combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

It should be noted that any of the methods described herein can include an additional step of providing a system comprising distinct software modules embodied on a computer readable storage medium the modules can include for example any or all of the components detailed herein. The method steps can then be carried out using the distinct software modules and or sub modules of the system as described above executing on a hardware processor . Further a computer program product can include a computer readable storage medium with code adapted to be implemented to carry out at least one method step described herein including the provision of the system with the distinct software modules.

In any case it should be understood that the components illustrated herein may be implemented in various forms of hardware software or combinations thereof for example application specific integrated circuit s ASICS functional circuitry an appropriately programmed general purpose digital computer with associated memory and the like. Given the teachings of the invention provided herein one of ordinary skill in the related art will be able to contemplate other implementations of the components of the invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of another feature integer step operation element component and or group thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed.

At least one aspect of the present invention may provide a beneficial effect such as for example enabling sharing of generated search lists among users of a search engine.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

