---

title: Automatic generation and registration of alter-ego web service accounts
abstract: Some aspects provide a method and system for providing a user with an anonymous identity. Some aspects receive a request to switch an account associated with a web service to an anonymous account. Some aspects provide login credentials associated with the anonymous account to the web service. The anonymous account is randomly generated by a service that is different from the web service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09634997&OS=09634997&RS=09634997
owner: STORYCLOUD INCORPORATED
number: 09634997
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140710
---
Social media services are typically internet based applications that provide users around the world with an opportunity to interact with other users and exchange content. Social media can take on many different forms such as forums blogs social networks video logs vlogs photograph and or video sharing wikis and wall posting. However one thing the majority of social media services share is a requirement that users create accounts with verifiable information. Usually this verifiable information is a valid email address that the user must verify through some sort of verification scheme before the account is created. Typically only one account can be associated with an email address and the average user may not maintain more than one active email account.

Users of social media services frequently use these services as a mechanism for expressing personal beliefs feelings and potentially strong viewpoints. However sometimes these expressions may contain offensive or inflammatory messages that pose the risk of alienating and or offending certain users. Due to this risk users may be uncomfortable with sharing certain information or content using social media services because they do not want to risk offending friends colleagues and other acquaintances that may know the users personally. In some instances personal friends of users may even be able to associate their social media accounts with them. Therefore some users may wish to create additional accounts that are randomly generated to anonymously exchange content. However the requirement of having a verifiable email account makes it difficult and time consuming to create more than one user account with any social media service.

Some aspects of the disclosure provide novel methods for generating registering and logging in anonymous alter ego accounts for verified users. In some aspects a user using a web service such as a social media website may view the website on an internet browser window at a client device. The browser of some aspects may have a plug in installed that causes a selectable UI object such as a button to appear in the browser window. In some aspects a user may interact with the selectable UI object to create register and or log in using an anonymous alter ego account.

Some aspects of the disclosure provide a system that is capable of communicating with the client and social media service. The system may be a web server capable of sending and receiving instructions to create register and login anonymous alter ego accounts. In some aspects the system also maintains verifiable user information that is associated with each alter ego account that the system creates for the user. The system maintains the alter ego account information as well as the verified user information which provides a mechanism for user accountability even when using an anonymous alter ego login.

In some aspects of the disclosure the system communicates with the web services through an Application Programming Interface API to access the registration and login functionality of the social media web service. Upon receiving a request to register or login an alter ego account the server will communicate through function calls to web service s API in order to register and login a user in the background e.g. without any user interaction . This background process makes the registration and login process appear seamless to the user.

The detailed description set forth below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of various configurations and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the concepts described herein may be practiced. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of various concepts. However it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that these concepts may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring such concepts.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term aspect of an apparatus method or article of manufacture does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the described components structure features functionality processes advantages benefits or modes of operation.

Several aspects of a web service that generate anonymous and verifiable alter ego accounts with social media services will now be described. Providing a service that is capable of generating alter ego accounts for various social media services provides a user with the anonymity necessary to feel comfortable enough to post the user s strong thoughts feelings and or beliefs without the risk of repercussion in the user s personal life. Additionally creating random accounts provides a lower likelihood of recognizing the user s actual identity. The alter ego generation service also provides the social media service provider and other users with the comfort of accountability because all alter ego accounts that are created for the various social media web services are associated with a verified user. If a user chooses to use an alter ego account to participate in nefarious activities on the social media website the social media service provider may alert the alter ego account provider to take disciplinary action against the alter ego user. Such actions may include blocking the user from using or registering any alter ego accounts with the social media service for a pre determined period of time or removal of the user s account on the alter ego service so that he may no longer create alter egos for any social media service.

Several selectable UI objects e.g. buttons text boxes etc. that are typically associated with web browsers and provide different web browsing functionalities are displayed in display region . Selectable alter ego provider UI object is also displayed in display region . The display region displays several exemplary UI objects that may be displayed when a user is logged into a social media service such as account information comment text box selectable UI object and user representations and . In one aspect the user representation may be a username avatar or a combination of a username and avatar.

The first stage illustrates a web browser after a user has logged into a social media service. In this example a user with the username Marcus457 has logged into an account that is associated with the social media service displayed in the browser window. The user Marcus457 of this example is a verified user that has been verified by the social media service s verification scheme. For instance Marcus457 created this account using the typical account creation and verification process provided by the social media web service. In such instances Marcus457 manually entered a non random username and his personal details such as his personal name address and email address. In this example the social media web service may utilize a verification scheme to verify that the user Marcus457 has a valid email address. Additionally the social media web service may verify that user Marcus457 does not have any other accounts associated with the same email address. If user Marcus457 already has another account associated with the social media service then he may be denied registration.

The first stage also illustrates that a user John Doe has posted a comment to the social media service. In this example the user John Doe may be a friend of user Marcus457. In some aspects the friendship is a personal relationship outside of the social media web service. The friendship may also be a programmatic link between the two users that is maintained by the social media service in one aspect.

In this example John Doe has posted a photo and a positive comment about cats. However Marcus457 may wish to make a negative comment associated with cats but does not want John Doe to know that his strong feelings about cats. This comment is probably related to photo which may be a photo of John Doe s cat.

In this example Marcus457 selects the alter ego selectable UI object using cursor to automatically switch to an alter ego account. In one aspect the transition to the alter ego account occurs seamlessly to the user. For instance the user associated with account Marcus457 may interact with the alter ego button. Upon clicking the alter ego button display area displays account information associated with a completely different account. Such interactions with the alter ego button may include clicking a mouse that controls a cursor on the screen or user interaction with a touch screen device such as a PDA tablet or smart phone.

The second stage shows an exemplary web browser window that may display after the client receives user input such as a click of the alter ego button to switch to an alter ego account. In this example the user account information shown in the first stage has changed to alter ego user account information . Additionally user representation has changed to alter ego account representation to reflect the switch to the alter ego account. In one aspect the alter ego account information and representation are randomly generated by the alter ego generation server. By using randomly generated account information other users of the social media web service are less likely to identify the identity of the person using the alter ego account.

Now that that the user is logged in using the alter ego account in the second stage he may anonymously post any confrontational or offensive comments such that John Doe does not recognize that the comments are actually coming from an alter ego associated with Marcus457. Here Marcus457 s alter ego j smithbeard has entered his negative feelings about cats in text box . He may post the comment anonymously to the social media service by interacting with selectable UI object .

As shown the process receives at user input to switch to an alter ego account associated with a particular user and web service. In one aspect the web service may be a service that is being concurrently accessed by the client performing process . The user may also be concurrently logged on to the web service using his primary account for the service. Alternatively or conjunctively the user may be a user of a service that is not associated with the web service being accessed by the client. The user input may be received from a user click of a button displayed in an internet browser window such as UI object illustrated in . The user input may also be some other type of user interaction with the web browser.

After receiving the user input the process may request at alter ego login information associated with the user and the web service. The process may send this request to an external server that stores the alter ego information and associated data such as the alter ego generation server illustrated in . At the process may receive alter ego login information. The alter ego login information may be a username and password. Alternatively the alter ego login information may be information used to create a new account with the web service. After receiving the login information the process may use the alter ego login information to switch at to the alter ego account allowing the user to post anonymously to the web service being accessed by the client. The process completes after switching to the alter ego account associated with the web service and user.

Additionally in one aspect alter ego aliases accounts may have a time of expiration. For instance a particular personal alter ego account associated with a particular social media service may have a lifetime of 72 hours at which point a new alter ego alias is created upon receiving a request to log in using an alter ego account. In one aspect this duration may be set during alter ego generation or it may be a default setting within the alter ego generation service. Setting a time of expiration for alter ego accounts also helps to maintain anonymity.

The alter ego data storage also maintains verified user information that is associated with all of the alter ego accounts . The alter ego accounts provide the alter ego provider user with the anonymity to post or share potentially offensive media without the risk of repercussion from other users. Conversely maintaining the verified user data and an association with the alter ego aliases provides accountability so that the social media service can request action be taken when a user is engaging in behavior using an alter ego account that violates the social media service s terms of service. For example if a user continuously uses different alter egos to engage in the same unacceptable behavior the social media service may request that the alter ego provider suspend alter ego generation for the user.

After receiving the request for alter ego information the process determines at whether an alter ego account has already been created for the web service. When the process determines that a alter ego account has already been created the process retrieves and provides at the alter ego account information associated with the user and the web service so that the web service has the information it needs to switch to the alter ego account. This information may be login information such as a username and password. When the process determines at that an alter ego account has not already been created or has expired for the web service the process generates and provides at new alter ego alias information to register the alter ego with the web service so that the web service can create a new alter ego and switch to the newly created alter ego. The new alter ego information may be provided to the web service by using web service s API. The API may provide the capability to read the information received from the alter ego generation server and create the new alter ego account. After the newly generated or retrieved alter ego information is provided to the web service the process ends. Generation of the new alter ego account is described in more detail in the following figure 

As shown the process generates at a random alias to be used as an alter ego account. Along with generating the random alias the process also generates the required login information needed for creating an account with the web service such as a username password avatar and a verifiable email address. In one aspect the required login information is provided to the web service by using functionality provided in the web service s API. Such functionalities may include the capability of receiving and registering the new alter ego accounts with the web service.

Next the process associates at the random alias with an authenticated user from a parent account that is not associated e.g. an alter ego service account with the web service. The purpose of associating the alter ego with the parent account in one aspect is for accountability. If the user uses the alter ego account to engage in nefarious activity or activity that violates a social media service s terms of use it is still possible to trace the alter ego account back to identify the person engaging in the unacceptable activity.

The process automatically registers at the alias with the web service. In one aspect this registration may take place by providing the registration information to the web service by using functionality provided by the web service s API. Functionality provided through the API may also generate the alter ego account for the web service. Next the process associates at the random alias with the web service and stores at the web service and parent account associations in a storage. In one aspect this storage is located on a server that runs the alter ego service such as alter ego generation server as described in .

As described in the foregoing description the alter ego service provides associations between a verified user and various alter egos. In some aspects the alter ego service may process virtual information that is verifiable through the alter ego service in order to produce alter ego accounts for various social media web services.

The alter ego service processing includes a linker that associates the verified user data with any number of virtual user data structures designed for creating alter ego accounts. Information kept in the verified user data in this example includes the real name of a user the user s verified email address and additional user details. Data structure is one example of the type of data that may be stored as part of a verified alter ego service user. However other aspects may include different data fields such as physical address photo s an avatar etc.

Virtual user data structures may include several virtual details that are generated by the alter ego generation service. The alter ego generation service produces the virtual details to register anonymous alter ego accounts with different social media services. In an exemplary aspect the virtual user data structure includes data fields that may be required to register a new user with a social media service. In some aspects the data structures may be different depending on the social media service that that alter ego is for. However in other aspects the data structure may be the same for all virtual user instances. In such aspects it may not be necessary to populate all of the data fields. For instance the virtual user data structure may include the alias information e.g. username password avatar etc. . The virtual user data structure may also include information such as a virtual name e.g. a fake first and last name a virtual email address additional virtual user details an expiration time for the particular virtual user and the social media service that may be associated with the virtual user data. In some aspects the virtual email address is randomly generated and provided by the alter ego provider service. The alter ego generation service provides the capability verifying the email account for the social media service through a query to the alter ego service provider. The randomly generated email address provides another level of anonymity for the alter ego user.

When a request to generate an alter ego account is received at the alter ego generation server the data in the virtual user data structure or the necessary portions of the data structure may be provided to the web service by the web service s API . In the example illustrated in registration data is being provided to the web service through the web service API. The alter ego provider server is capable of communicating with the web service using the APIs of various web services to provide seamless registration and login using the virtual user information.

In the preceding examples the switch to an alter ego account appears seamless to a user that is viewing a social media website at a web browser meaning that upon receiving a command to switch to the alter ego account the user only sees that the account information e.g. username avatar etc. has changed. However in some aspects the alter ego service may be configured at the client to prompt the user to determine which alter ego account the user would like to switch to. In some aspects the user may even request that a new account be generated because he may feel that his identity may be compromised if he uses the currently active alter ego account.

The first stage illustrates a user s interaction with the alter ego selectable UI object . The user may interact with the alter ego selectable UI object by mouse click tapping the object on a touch screen or any other type of selection method. Upon interacting with the alter ego selectable UI object a new dialog displays in the second stage . Dialog provides the user an opportunity to request a new alter ego account even though one may already exist for the particular user and the web service. When the user selects the option to create a new account the alter ego generation service will generate new virtual user information. The alter ego generation service also automatically registers and logs in a new account using the web service s API. The process of registering and logging onto the new alter ego account appears seamless to the user in some aspects similar to the registration and login process discussed in relation to .

Allowing the alter ego provider service to integrate with a social media service may pose a number concerns for the social media service and users some of which were discussed in the preceding description. Additionally one such concern social media services and other user is may have is the ability to trust a user s authenticity. One aspect of the alter ego provider service provides an option for displaying an indication that a user is authentic. illustrates an example of web browser window that shows an indication that a user is authentic. Web browser window is similar to the web browser window discussed with respect to . Similar to web browser window web browser window also includes a user representation . However web browser window also includes an authenticity indicator . In this example authenticity indicator appears somewhere near user representation to alert users that at least some credentials of the user have been verified by the alter ego provider service. This again provides the social media service with the comfort of accountability for the user s actions and provides users with comfort in knowing that the user has been verified and controls can be put in place if the user is involved in improper activities or activities that violate the social media service s terms of use.

The interface is communicatively coupled to the random alter ego generator the alter ego account retriever the blocked account checking engine and the user data authentication engine . A client device may initiate communication with the alter ego generation server by communicating over the Internet . When a client is requesting creation of a new alter ego account the random alter ego account generator may generate all of the necessary credentials required to register a new alter ego account with a web service. The random alter ego account generator may then store the new account details in the storage and provide the necessary registration information to the interface . The interface may then communicate the required registration details over the Internet to the social media web service such as social media website to register the new alter ego account.

A client device may also initiate communication with the alter ego server to create a parent account. The parent account of some aspects includes authenticated data capable of tracing the user s identity. When the interface receives a request to create a new authenticated user the user data authentication engine will collect the required data and use an authentication scheme to verify the user s authenticity. Such authenticity schemes may include sending an email to an email address that the user manually entered and requiring that the user perform some interaction with the email before the account can be created. Once the authentic user account is created the user data authentication engine stores the user data in the storage . When necessary the user data authentication engine may also retrieve authenticated user data from the storage .

In certain instances a social media service may request that a particular user be blocked from using the social media service due to some violation of the social media service s terms of service. In such cases the social media service may initiate contact with the alter ego server to put a block on the user s alter ego account or verified user account when warranted. The blocked account checking engine will receive the request to block the user account alter ego account or verified user account and store the block information in the storage .

A client device may initiate contact with the alter ego server to request alter ego account information enabling the user to log on the social media website using the alter ego account. In such instances the interface will communicate with the alter ego account retriever to retrieve the requested alter ego account information for the requesting user. Once retrieved the alter ego account retriever will verify with the blocked account checking engine that a block has not been placed on the alter ego account or user. If a block has been initiated the blocked account checking engine will send a notification to the interface to alert the user that a block has been placed on the account.

If a block has not been placed on the account the alter ego account retriever will verify that the account has not expired e.g. been active for longer than a specified duration at the account expiration checker . If the account has expired the account expiration checker will notify the alter ego account retriever that the alter ego account is no longer valid. The alter ego account retriever may flag the account as invalid in storage . The account expiration checker may also send a request to the random alter ego generator to create a new alter ego account. The random alter ego generator will provide alter ego account information to the interface to perform the same registration process described in the preceding description. The random alter ego generator will also store the new alter ego information in the storage .

If the retrieved account has not expired e.g. is still valid the alter ego account retriever will send the alter ego account information to the interface to perform the automatic login process described in the preceding description. In one aspect the provided account information may include a username and password.

Many of the above described features and applications are implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a computer readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more computational or processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives random access memory RAM chips hard drives erasable programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs etc. The computer readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

In this specification the term software is meant to include firmware residing in read only memory or applications stored in magnetic storage which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some embodiments multiple software inventions can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software inventions. In some embodiments multiple software inventions can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally any combination of separate programs that together implement a software invention described here is within the scope of the invention. In some embodiments the software programs when installed to operate on one or more electronic systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.

The bus the communicatively connects the internal devices and or components of the computer system. For instance the bus communicatively connects the processor s with the ROM the RAM and the permanent storage . The processor s retrieve instructions from the memory units to execute processes of the invention.

The ROM stores static instructions needed by the processor s and other components of the computer system. The ROM may store the instructions necessary for the processor to execute the web server web application or other web services. The permanent storage is a non volatile memory that stores instructions and data when the computer system is on or off. The permanent storage is a read write memory device such as a hard disk or a flash drive. Storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example the ROM could also be EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD and floppy disk where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The RAM is a volatile read write memory. The RAM stores instructions needed by the processor s at runtime. The bus also connects input and output devices and . The input devices enable the user to communicate information and select commands to the computer system. The input devices may be a keyboard or a pointing device such as a mouse. The input devices may also be a touch screen display capable of receiving touch interactions. The output device s display images generated by the computer system. The output devices may include printers or display devices such as monitors.

The bus also couples the computer system to a network . The computer system may be part of a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or an Intranet by using a network interface. The web service may be provided to the user through a web client which receives information transmitted on the network by the computer system .

It is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged. Further some steps may be combined or omitted. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Combinations such as at least one of A B or C at least one of A B and C and A B C or any combination thereof include any combination of A B and or C and may include multiples of A multiples of B or multiples of C. Specifically combinations such as at least one of A B or C at least one of A B and C and A B C or any combination thereof may be A only B only C only A and B A and C B and C or A and B and C where any such combinations may contain one or more member or members of A B or C. All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element is to be construed as a means plus function unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for or in the case of a method claim the element is recited using the phrase step for. 

