---

title: End-to-end effective citizen engagement via advanced analytics and sensor-based personal assistant capability (EECEASPA)
abstract: Providing an end-to-end citizen engagement, in one aspect, may comprise obtaining data of multiple disintegrated sources from one or more of communication and social computing channels via one or more adapters. Data refactoring and management, integration and process orchestration of the data according to a data model as data attributes of the data model may be provided. One or more analytics may be performed based on the data attributes stored according to the data model and input specified to the one or more analytics. One or more results computed by performing the one or more analytics may be provided. One or more application logics supporting one or more front-end applications may be produced. One or more front-end applications for automated sensing of user activities and sensor-based personal assistant capability may be provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09524505&OS=09524505&RS=09524505
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09524505
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140220
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 807 087 filed on Apr. 1 2013 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 184 237 entitled A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PERTUBATION MONITORING AND ADJUSTMENT OF AN INCENTIVE AMOUNT USING STATISTICALLY VALUABLE INDIVIDUAL INCENTIVE SENSITIVITY FOR IMPROVING SURVEY PARTICIPATION RATE filed on Feb. 19 2014 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 201 081 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR EFFECTIVE ANALYZING THE ACCURACY TRUSTWORTHINESS OF SURVEY ANSWERS THROUGH TRUST ANALYTICS filed on Mar. 7 2014 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 136 694 entitled A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR IMPROVING SURVEY PARTICIPATION RATE WITH AN INCENTIVE MECHANISM filed on Dec. 20 2013 the entire content and disclosure of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present application relates generally to computers and computer applications and more particularly to citizen engagement and analytics.

There lacks an end to end effective citizen engagement platform that provides real time analysis of the effectiveness of a citizen engagement e.g. the progress of a voting campaign or personal wellness improvement to provide personalized monitoring tracking reminding and alerting users. Most of the campaign monitoring and reporting focus on aggregate progress of the collective users participating in a citizen engagement campaign and may only be specially created for the campaign administrators.

A method for providing end to end citizen engagements in one aspect may comprise obtaining data from one or more of communication and social computing channels via one or more adapters. The method may also comprise providing data refactoring and management integration and process orchestration of the data according to a data model as data attributes of the data model the data obtained from multiple disintegrated data sources. The method may also comprise performing one or more analytics based on the data attributes stored according to the data model and input specified to the one or more analytics. The method may also comprise providing one or more results computed by performing the one or more analytics. The method may further comprise producing one or more application logics supporting one or more front end applications. The method may also comprise providing the one or more front end applications for automated sensing of user activities and sensor based personal assistant capability.

The system for providing an end to end citizen engagement in one aspect may comprise a data model comprising a set of data types. An adapter layer may comprise a plurality of adapter executing on a processor and obtaining data from one or more of communication and social computing channels. A factory layer may comprise a computer executable module executing on the processor and adapting extracting making inference reducing and augmenting and integrating of the data as data attributes of the data model the data obtained from multiple disintegrated data sources. An engagement analytics layer may comprise a plurality of analytics application programming interfaces that invoke one or more analytics computations based on the data attributes stored according to the data model and input specified to one or more analytics computations. An application logic layer may comprise one or more application logics corresponding to one or more front end user applications wherein the one or more results computed by performing the one or more analytics are provided to the user via the application logic layer and the one or more front end user applications. Front end applications are provided for automated sensing of user micro activities and sensor based personal assistant capability.

A computer readable storage medium storing a program of instructions executable by a machine to perform one or more methods described herein also may be provided.

Further features as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings like reference numbers indicate identical or functionally similar elements.

Citizen engagement or Campaign refers to a city or citizen initiated activity that has goal statement timeline and qualification for participation.

Campaign Definition may include defining goals start and end dates targeted age groups targeted geographic areas task for the volunteers to do e.g. vote for a new park location incentive definitions rules to dynamically adjust incentives and success metrics or measurement metrics.

Campaign Announcement or Launch may include generating campaign Web page and automatically pushing announcement to social media channels.

Campaign Recruitment online enables citizens to register as campaigners and campaigners to update recruitment status enable citizens to register as volunteers and perform the task they are recruited for right there where they are registered enable businesses organizations or citizens to register as sponsors display campaign recruitment status for social approval.

Campaign Activity Reporting and Analysis may provide aggregate display of campaign progress of near real time activity status for general public consumption and for use by the campaign administrators e.g. viewed liked followed response rate most followed people temporal stats and advanced analytics for staff consumption which enables near real time monitoring of the progress of the campaign status and adjustments of incentive based on the response rate and coverage.

Sensor based refers to using various sensing devices e.g. Pulse oxy meter Heart beat monitor Blood sugar monitor Pedometer etc. for determining information.

Sensor based Personal Assistant PA Capability refers to using various sensing devices to create personalized experience and assistance in various aspects related to a campaign e.g. sending monitoring and tracking of personal progress daily toward the personal goals set by the users and sending out reminders and alerts based on the goals set out by the users.

Various city citizen initiated activities may be carried through communication interaction channels such as community center activities city infrastructure reporting via phones public hearing processes and so forth. Examples of campaigns include trying to persuade a group a large number of people to engage in a goal e.g. 1 commit to ride their bike to work on a given week 2 install rain gardens in their yard 3 replace their incandescent light bulbs with CFLS compact florescent light bulbs 4 help recruit volunteers for a study. For city and citizens the lack of a common single point interaction interface poses various challenges such as low participation rate no visibility of campaign activities to city administrators inefficient city resource allocation utilization and so forth. Campaigns share common characteristics and the process may be repeatable. They can be clearly defined with goals a start and stop time and activities to be done. Because campaigns happen at particular time and sometimes place they can be a social activity with people working together and getting friends involved. Because campaigns involve many people doing the same thing during the same time they can use social incentives like leader boards badges rankings and points. Businesses may wish to sponsor them by contributing material incentives like coupons or t shirts and particular campaigns will attract particular sorts of people that particular businesses may be interested in . Participants can help one another by providing moral support tips etc. Campaigns are also well suited for test deployments in cities. One city may promote rain garden installation another might promote bus use. Doing 1 or 2 campaigns is less of a commitment than say starting up an online 3ii. 3ii provides functions similar to 311 which is New York City s main source of government information and non emergency services. There are specific roles in the City usually the Communications Director with whom to work.

Wellness specific problems for citizen engagement currently lack of Personal Assistant PA Capability and a system that communicates with PA. A methodology of the present disclosure may provide such PA capability in the citizen engagement conducted by the cities to do automate sensing using wireless sensors GPS categorization self learning and automated correction of the categorization of commonly performed physical activities e.g. running jogging driving walking etc. personalized monitoring and tracking of the sensed data e.g. via various wireless sensors e.g. Pulse oxy meter Heart beat monitor Blood sugar monitor Pedometer monitoring and tracking of daily personal progress e.g. frequency and amount of eating physical exercises and increase decrease of weight and sending out reminders and alerts based on the goals created by the citizen to do the activities to improve the wellness of the citizens.

A methodology of the present disclosure in one embodiment may store combine correlate and analyze public and private data about citizens city infrastructure and city and or citizen initiated engagements and or campaigns and their interactions to achieve an effective citizen engagement. The methodology in one embodiment may employ analytics to achieve the effectiveness of a citizen engagement. For example for a given activity an engagement model and analytics may quantify trust level of participants impact assessment personalized reward characterization recruitment framework behavior characterization and prioritization of activities. In another aspect an end to end Effective Citizen Engagement system may be provided that comprises 1 a back end system that processes data from Web sites and social media mobile phones and sensing devices and produces analytics to achieve an effective citizen engagement 2 End user interface comprising one or more smartphone Apps applications for automated sensing of personal micro activities and for logging viewing and editing physical activities diet and weight as well as setting goals and working in teams and one or more Web applications for users to interact with the system.

While the present disclosure describes a methodology with reference to a city and citizens of the city it should be understood that the methodology of the present disclosure may be applicable to any other governing or organizational group and its constituents.

There are various attributes of an individual that may be captured. Each attribute can play a role in determining an individual s engagement characteristics and qualifications. For example a sustainability campaign may be better for those who are more environmentally aware. A public hearing about transit planning would interest more people who use the public transit system who are being impacted by the transit planning. Each engagement may have an impact on a diverse set of key attributes of a citizen e.g. environmental awareness physical health conditions geospatial existence social relation financial conditions demographic attributes. A deep analytical capability may be provided in one embodiment of the present disclosure that quantifies each attribute. The actual data collected for these set of selected attributes for each campaign constitute one of the data sources as shown in and labeled as Multi silo data of the EECEASPA focus area.

An Adapter layer comprises one or more adapters for getting data from various communication and social computing channels for the said architecture of citizen engagements. The Adapter layer for example may include application programming interfaces API or the like for interface with various data sources from receive and or exchange data from the various data sources. There may be an API for each specific data source. Each adapter may process a specific set of data for example an HRA adapter may process health and or wellness related data e.g. weight diet and activities exercise a transit adapter may process smartphone GPS data of participant s movement records in and out of the City a driver adapter may process driving data e.g. driving habits a sustainability adapter may process sustainability related data e.g. water and energy smart meter data. Other adapters may be included and more examples are described below.

A Factory layer provides data management and integration and application programming interfaces APIs for an effective mechanism to consume data from multiple the disintegrated data sources from various the communication and social media channels transform the data through adaptation extraction inference reduction augmentation and integration. The Factory layer may retrieve data from the database DB . The Factory layer supports the architecture for citizen engagement and process orchestrate to integrate with the data model adapters analytics and application logic . For cross domain data integration the factory layer links multiple disintegrated data sources by both dynamic integration at runtime and pre calculated integration that stores data into database DB .

An Engagement Analytics layer comprises one or more analytics for analyzing the data and computing results of the citizen engagements. Examples of analytics are further described below.

An Application Logic layer comprises one or more application logic tailored for various application types. An application logic of the Application Logic layer may provide an application related functions that support one specific type of application. For example the sustainability related application logic for water may provide functions to support a sustainability application and or Web portal for water application logic for electricity may provide functions to support a sustainability application and or Web portal for electricity. Similarly there may be application logic for health and or wellness supporting a smart phone Application for health and or wellness. Each application logic may implement the functions that support one type of application.

A front end user interface may comprise smartphone apps for automated sensing of human micro activities and sensor based Personal Assistant Capability sense devices to act like a Per Personal Assistant for personalized sensing. The front end of the system architecture may also comprise Web Applications Apps for citizens and City e.g. shown in at and to conduct effective citizen engagements. Web Applications are applications that are Web based or accessible via Internet.

In one embodiment EECEASPA takes input from various data sources e.g. smartphone Apps GPS user inputs personalized data surveys reports communication channels email etc. and social computing channels social media channels e.g. social networking sites blogging sites microblogging sites e.g. as described with reference to .

In one embodiment input data are first processed by the Adapter layer . The Factory layer integrates the data processed by the Adapter layer and transforms the data into the correct format for the Engagement Analytics Layer to perform calculation and produce results which is used by a specific Application logic targeted for a specific type of application to send and or receive data via APIs to that target application e.g. shown at in . Examples of the calculations performed by the engagement analytics layer may include but are not limited to trust analytics that provides a mechanism for systematic analysis on the quality of data and or inputs provided by campaign participants which can compromise the quality and or effectiveness of the campaigns incentive analytics that provides a mechanism to optimize the allocation of incentives resources and provide dynamic adjustment of incentive allocation based on a participant s individual incentive sensitivity to the changes of incentive amount e.g. how a participant is responding to the incentive changes and other analytics. Additional calculations may include impact analytics that analyzes the impact on the participants by the campaign behavior analytics that analyzes how the participants behavior affects by the campaign reward analytics recruitment analytics geo analytics effectiveness analytics and prioritization analytics etc.

Smartphone apps provide various functions for example comprising 1 automated sensing classification self correction and learning of human micro mobility activities to produce accurate classification of the type and duration of an activity 2 monitoring tracking goal setting teaming and integration with the health risk assessment HRA sites provide alerts based on data collected to support HRA improvement etc. In one embodiment of the present disclosure there may be more than one smartphone app. For instance one app may contain two sets of functions. In this example implementation one set of functions is implemented by one app. Smartphone apps may be a CEP App described above.

Both Smartphone Apps for Automated sensing and Personal Assistant monitoring may be downloaded and installed on a participant s smartphone with an operating system e.g. Android OS and or others. Users take their smartphones with them for physical activities e.g. walking or running. Smartphone App for Automated sensing e.g. at utilizes the sensing device e.g. Smartphone accelerometer to provide automated sensing of the most commonly performed human daily micro activities e.g. jogging jumping running driving etc. The App transmits the data produced by the use of the sensing device to the backend server which performs analytics on the data for certain duration and automatically classifies the data. It can also perform user assisted learning based on user edited entries to self correct and reclassify system logged activities to improve accuracy automatic detection of patterns of misclassification and automatic correction of misclassification. Smartphone App for Personal Assistant monitoring tracking goal setting e.g. at may provide for personalized statistics collecting monitoring goal tracking displaying physical activities history editing adding physical activities progress displaying reminding alerting and providing recommendations when interfacing with HRA sites etc. Smartphone App for Personal Assistant monitoring tracking goal setting e.g. at may also provide for teaming support to create update delete join and leave a team as well as compare anonymous aggregate data of other members in a team. Smartphone App for Personal Assistant monitoring tracking goal setting e.g. at may also provide for integration with the HRA and the alerts based on data collected to support HRA improvement.

A user interface e.g. smartphone apps Web Applications and Apps interact with citizens and City management to enable effective citizen engagements between City and its citizens.

The Adapter layer may comprise one or more adapters for example Social computing or media adapters APIs Communication adapters APIs and or Other adapters APIs e.g. adapters to interface with a monitoring and tracking platform e.g. intelligent operations center and adapter for Health Risk Assessment HRA sites etc. The HRA adapter is used to interface with a third party system that provides auxiliary information e.g. a health risk assessment survey.

The Factory layer that provides data management and integration and process orchestration may comprise the following capabilities Integration with the Data model integration with the Social computing adapters APIs integration with various adapter e.g. integration with the Communication adapters APIs integration with the monitoring and tracking platform for key performance indicators KPIs computation and display backend processing for multiple sensor based smartphone apps.

Generally the Factory layer may perform following functions Adaptation Extracting inferring reducing and augmenting and integration.

Adaptation may include importing and or transforming the source data to the format required by each target data source consumer e.g. analytics layer e.g. trust incentive impact analytics etc. application logic applications and or others.

Extracting inferring reducing and augmenting may include extracting specific data elements required for the output and inferring based on the extracted data to produce additional data required by the output e.g. what was happening at certain time . For example the location stamp of a social media photo textual input of store name may be extracted then the approximate location e.g. restaurant may be determined to look up the location identification e.g. lat long and prior location information may be combined. Timestamp of postings and global positioning system GPS locations may be used to infer information. For example rough location can infer what one might be doing or interested in e.g. park or such outdoor activities home improvement restaurant. Such information may be used in marketing and promotional offerings applications. As another example this function may integrate multiple and different types of data into an integrated data item.

Integration may include cross domain data integration e.g. a way to link multiple disintegrated data sources e.g. sensing data is linked to multi domain data e.g. water energy wellness social network identifier social network email public wall. For example a sensing app may log location information about a user and a social network site may have location data from the same user. Combining both data may fill in a gap and provide more complete information.

The integrating and process orchestration of the Factory layer may comprise integrating with a monitoring and tracking portal e.g. IBM Intelligent Operations Center for computation and display of the important statistics e.g. key performance indicators KPIs integration with the social computing adapters integration with the communication adapters integration with other adapters e.g. for Health Risk Assessment HRA sites which is a third party system that provides auxiliary information e.g. a health risk assessment survey as well as integration with backend processing for data received from multiple sensor based smartphone apps.

The Engagement Analytics layer further comprises analytics and Application Programming Interfaces APIs for Trust analytics Impact analytics Reward analytics Behavior analytics Recruitment analytics Geo analytics Effectiveness analytics and Prioritization analytics. The Application Logic layer interfaces with the analytics APIs and is tailored for a specific type of application .

A user interface Web Applications and Apps e.g. interact with the backend system to enable citizens and city management to conduct effective citizen engagements. An example of a type of application may include sustainability applications e.g. for water and electricity. Such sustainability applications provide residents and businesses with information of a history of their consumption and insights and or recommendations of their usage patterns trend forecast of usage and or ways and activities to reduce consumption through technology and analytics and enable them to e.g. conserve water and electricity consumption save bills on utilities and improve the environment and others. The behavior analytics can assess how information and technology affect the behavior of the users e.g. whether or not users actually changed their behavior to conserver water and or electricity while using the sustainability application and if yes and what was the actual savings.

The Factory layer integrates the data obtained via the adapter layer into the data model . For example various data from the various data sources are extracted and formatted into the appropriate format and stored as attributes values of the data model. That is the Factory layer provides data management integration process orchestration and integrates with the rest of the components e.g. data model social computing adapters and or APIs communication adapters and or APIs monitoring and tracking portal for computation and display of the key performance indicators KPIs and backend processing for multiple sensor based smartphone apps.

The Engagement Analytics layer uses the data stored according to the structure of the data model to create appropriate analytics e.g. Trust Impact Reward Behavior Recruitment Geo Effectiveness and Prioritization.

The Application Logic layer processes the results of the analytics performed in the Engagement layer and provides the data to users e.g. via user interface programs e.g. application portals mobile applications etc. . Application Logic layer is further described with reference to the Application Logic at in .

Thus in one embodiment a method for providing end to end citizen engagements may comprise obtaining data using a computer processor from one or more of communication and social computing channels via one or more adapters. The obtaining of the data further may include receiving data from one or more sensing devices that sense one or more activities of one or more participants of the end to end citizen engagements. The obtaining of the data may further include communicating with a remote application installed on a mobile device to receive the data. The obtaining of the data may be performed by one or more adapters and application programming interfaces executing on the processor for communicating with at least the one or more of communication and social computing channels.

The method may also include providing data refactoring and management integration and process orchestration using the computer processor of the data according to a data model as data attributes of the data model the data obtained from multiple disintegrated data sources. The data model may specify a set of data types which may include at least Record Verification Impact Location Actor RegisteredActor Comment Attachment Account Preference Subscription Notification Incentive ActorAction Template Relationship Team Teammember and Teamgoal data types.

The providing of data management and integration may further include performing adaptation extraction inference reduction and augmentation and integration of the multiple disintegrated data sources.

The integrating and process orchestration may further comprise integrating with a monitoring and tracking portal e.g. for computation and display of the statistics e.g. key performance indicators KPIs computation and display integration with one or more social computing adapters integration with one or more communication adapters integration with other adapters e.g. for Health Risk Assessment HRA sites which is a third party system that provides auxiliary information e.g. a health risk assessment survey as well as integration with backend processing for multiple sensor based smartphone apps.

The one or more analytics may be performed by invoking one or more application programming interfaces corresponding to the one or more analytics the one or more application programming interfaces corresponding to one or more of Trust analytics Impact analytics Reward analytics Behavior analytics Recruitment analytics Geo analytics Effectiveness analytics and Prioritization analytics.

The method may also include performing using the computer processor one or more analytics based on the data attributes stored according to the data model and input specified to the one or more analytics.

The method may also include providing using the computer processor one or more results computed by performing the one or more analytics.

The method may further include producing using the computer processor one or more application logics supporting one or more front end applications. One application logic may be custom tailored for one application e.g. desk top application Web based applications and or portals smartphone applications and the like.

The method may also include providing the one or more front end applications for automated sensing of user activities and sensor based personal assistant capability. The front end applications may include one or more of Smartphone apps for automated sensing of user micro activities. Sensor based Personal Assistant Capability may be provided employing sensing devices that function as a Per Personal Assistant for personalized the sensing. The Smartphone apps further may include one or more functions e.g. automated sensing classification self correction and learning of human micro mobility activities to produce accurate classification of the type and duration of an activity monitoring tracking goal setting teaming providing alerts based on user s activity history and optionally integrating with the HRA and providing alerts based on data collected to support HRA improvement etc.

For example the data model supports both registered users and anonymous users. Data types associated with this type of support may include Actor anonymous users RegisteredActor users or organizations known to Citizen Engagement Platform and Account. Once a user organization becomes a RegisteredActor that is known to the system the user or organization can have Incentive record. Both registered users and anonymous users can receive notifications. Any Actor anonymous or registered can have Notification Record and related Incident Announcement i.e. proposal and investment and ActorAction. The model may also support organizations and single users.

In addition the data model may support at least three types based on one base data type Record Incident i.e. Service Request Announcement for a proposal of a new initiative e.g. clean air or sidewalk pick on bulky furniture etc. or an investment of a project e.g. new building highway bus route etc. . Record is anything that is reported by the citizen and can be located on a map. It contains commonly used data fields including various fields for impact verification location and revision. Data type associated with this type of support may include Record Incident Announcement. Record has several related data types CategoryItem Impact Verification Comments Revision MergeRecord Area for location and neighborhood . Record also includes various data e.g. urgency severity certainty. Announcement has several related data types Contact Attachment can be Results or Collection e.g. files images videos etc. .

The data model of the present disclosure in one embodiment may also support the following data types Notification Impact Verification Area ActorAction Incentive NotifyTemplate. Notification may involve several other data types Preference Subscription start and stop times Location Route for location based notification . Verification may involve several other data types VerifyRule. Both Impact and Verification may be used together to arrive at one final determination of the decision of an Incident in terms of the reliability of the source the user s reputation e.g. trust score computed by trust analytics and the impact on users via impact score computed by impact analytics that analyzes the impact on the city residents of certain reported incidents e.g. potholes power outage chemical gas leak etc. etc. ActorAction is a general way to track all activities done by an actor e.g. report an incident vote a proposal comment on another actor s comment view portal page etc. This can be used for analytics e.g. more report activities than viewing activities. NotifyTemplate is an instance of the notification at a point in time for ease of reuse and customization. This also includes Preference Subscription start and stop times Location Route etc. Users can reuse or change the templates without having to go through the trouble creating from scratch the entire list of data fields as described in the template. For example organizations may want to create templates for its employees. Also one or more frequently used templates e.g. employee record which may include commonly used list of data fields e.g. employee ID name address phone numbers job title date hired emergency contact info etc. payroll record customer profile user profile e.g. social network sites etc. can be reused easily or been sold by small business that specializes in custom tailor notification and alerting packages.

As described above the data model is used to store the data received from various data sources and data used in the EECEASPA of the present disclosure in a structured format for use by various functionalities of the EECEASPA.

The Factory layer may call the following APIs to communicate with the social computing adapter of the Adapter layer 

The engagement analytics layer e.g. shown in at may perform the following analytics in one embodiment of the present disclosure.

Event Impact Analytics based on pre defined rules links reported incidents and comments to impacted parties actions and possible outcomes. As a use case example of Event Impact Analytics when a serious pothole report is submitted the event impact analytics analyzes the impact of the reported event on the population of the city.

Incentive Design Analytics may generate various incentives such as points badges ranks and so forth that are linked to reporting polling and other activities through Citizen Engagement Platform and evaluate the incentives that seem to be most effective. As a use case example of Incentive Design Analytics higher points may be given to users with fast and valuable reports to have high impact. As another use case example of Incentive Design Analytics give higher points to users with valuable comments that help shape the public hearing process.

Participant Behavior Analytics analyzes how participants in engagements behave under various conditions. As a use case example of Participant Behavior Analytics the analytics tries to understand classes of participants that will communicate a pothole. Some users may report every pot hole they see. Others may report only if it has impacted them in a negative way yet others may report when they see reward points for their prior reporting etc.

Participant Reputation Analytics analyzes the quality of participant input and links it to participant reputation to create varying degrees of trust in crowd sensed data. As a use case example of Participant Reputation Analytics some citizens may report even the smallest problems while others will only report if it is a big issue. Learning and associating a trust value to every participant input and using it to weigh and aggregate the overall degree of input from citizen participants help prioritize actions.

Engagement Effectiveness Analytics analyzes the amount of engagement being generated by various engagement mechanisms to evaluate the effectiveness of those mechanisms. As a use case example of Engagement Effectiveness Analytics if recruitment is being conducted for an event through multiple marketing channels this analytics may evaluate the effectiveness of each channel in terms of the success of recruitment.

Reaction Prioritization prioritizes possible choices of reactions based on participant reputation analysis and event impact analysis. As a use case example of Reaction Prioritization if there are two potholes to fix and only one can be fixed next week the reaction prioritization may be used to recommend the pothole that if fixed will lead to the best mitigation of impact of the pothole and the mitigation of the negative opinion generated by it.

Each API may be implemented as an atomic calculation routine for selecting and prioritizing participants for a specific campaign task. For example a social analytics API is used to identify individuals who have a greater influence so that a social message can propagate more effectively. Another example is a trust API that assigns a higher score for individuals who have higher trustworthiness for a specific input. An impact API is used to calculate who will be impacted by a specific event and a campaign so that any inputs from the impacted individuals can be accounted properly.

Analytics APIs may be implemented as abstraction classes e.g. impact abstraction class to implement Event Impact Analytics trust abstraction class prioritization abstraction class to implement Reaction Prioritization behavior abstraction class to implement Participant Behavior Analytics engagement effectiveness abstraction class to implement Engagement Effectiveness Analytics incentive abstraction class to implement Incentive Design Analytics and similarity abstraction class. A similarity API may use a set of clustering algorithms such as support vector machine k means and others to cluster individuals into multiple clusters. A choice of distance metrics such as L 1 norm Cosine distance and other well known metrics may be used to calculate the similarity between clusters.

A trust API calculates a trustworthiness score of individual based on a set of attributes that describe a characteristics of individual and prior knowledge of a subject matter. In addition previously verified inputs may be used to assign a score towards the trustworthiness.

Trust Analytics calculate trust metric for a user by attribute types e.g. responsiveness quality of data frequency of participation and so forth . The analytics may be performed under the assumption that as EECEASPA runs historical participation and event data is available for calculation. Three phases in which the analytics may be used are as follows 

When recruiting volunteers pre calculated trust metric values are used to prioritize a set of candidates that will contribute better than those who have smaller trust values. For example in a transit approval scenario one would like make sure that participation and response rate is high. In this case highly responsive people thus hold high trust metric value may be chosen.

This phase reports on participation rate from trust worthy volunteers and creates a list of future volunteers.

When analyzing data once a campaign is completed trust metrics are used to give different weight to improve the reliability of the response . For example in a transit approval scenario one would want to put higher weight to those who actually have ridership.

Impact Analytics calculates impact metric for a user by attribute types e.g. geographical coverage polygon list of zipcode etc. time of day event distribution . This analytics may assume that EECEASPA runs historical participation and event data is available for calculation. Three phases in which the analytics are used may be as follows 

A campaign has coverage requirement. This pre calculated coverage metric is used to cover the area of interest when recruiting people. For example in a transit approval scenario one would want to make sure that opinions are collected from those who are affected by the transit route changes. This analytics allows finding candidates who need to be recruited.

This phase provides for run time coverage impact graph and helps monitor campaign progress in terms of coverage map and identify where a campaign owner should recruit more people and encourage more participation .

When analyzing data once a campaign is completed impact metrics are used to normalize responses from different geographical areas at different time. For example in a transit approval scenario one would want to put higher weight to those who actually have ridership within the changed routes at different time.

Social Analytics identifies social links by hierarchical structure friendship historical collaboration through campaign activities and so forth. This analytics may assume that as EECEASPA runs historical participation and event data is available for calculation. Two phases in which the analytics may be used are as follows 

When recruiting people for a campaign it would be easier to propagate messages through social links. The identified social links is used for improved communication methods. In some cases one may want to avoid over participation from a group of people for example large number of people from a local interest group to vote for their interest. For example in a transit approval scenario one would want to make sure that opinions come from a diverse group of people to reduce bias. As the recruiting is in progress this social links are used to identify which group of people should be recruited more.

When analyzing data once a campaign is completed social links are used to reduce bias due to social relationships. For example in a transit approval scenario if many data points from employees of a bus company are gathered one would want to make sure that one gets as many data points from non employees.

For social communication adapters there may be following two data structures e.g. Profile for users anonymous and registered and Community for organizations groups social relationships related data Profile Community and Communities may be defined according the definition of Profile Community and Communities in IBM Lotus Connections Connections portal from International Business Machines IBM of Armonk N.Y.

Examples of the data fields of Profile and Community and the APIs to be invoked by the analytics layers to query information it needs are shown in Table 2. These APIs definition are from IBM Lotus Connection and used as is. The description below is to show their usage in this disclosure.

Social media communication adapter APIs e.g. part of the adapter layer shown in at for performing Impact and Trust Analytics e.g. part of the engagement analytics layer shown in at may include the following APIs 

As an example the APIs and its inputs and outputs of the Trust Analytics for processing Profiles of the engagement analytics layer are described as follows. Input to the Trust Analytics module that computes trust metrics may include attribute names and trust calculation rules which defines the weight of each attribute name based on the nature of the campaign. For example for a transit campaign a campaign designer would define three key attributes experience assign 0.3 if experienced in mass transit industry jobResp assign 0.5 if responsibility includes x y or z related to mass transportation location assign 0.2 if location is within 10 miles from zip code 1x201 . The Trust Analytics also receives as input such data like XML formatted data that is integrated into the data model e.g. at by a factory layer e.g. at from social media communication channel e.g. at via an appropriate adapter e.g. at in the adapter layer e.g. at . The data the factory layer e.g. at process may include information like John was a former employee of local Department of Transportation DoT responsible for improving ridership in the city but does not live in the zip code 1x201. The Trust Analytics module then may output John has initial trust level of 0.8. where 0.8 is the trust metric representing the trust level.

In another example Trust Analytics for processing Prior Activities Tasks API and its Inputs and Outputs are described as follows. Inputs to the Trust Analytics module may include task type and trust calculation rules which define the weight of the task. For example a campaign designer defines input as Noting Calculate average response rate . Using data from data sources e.g. City public data received via the adapter layer and integrated into the data model by the factory layer such as John has participated in 10 voting campaigns and actually voted 8 times the Trust Analytics module may output John s response rate for voting campaigns is 0.8. 

In one embodiment of the present disclosure Trust API member functions of the TrustAnalytics may include the following 

As another example Impact Analytics Profile and its inputs and outputs are described as follows. Inputs may include attribute name and impact calculation rule. For example a campaign designer defines three key attributes location extract location tags from social media activities . Impact Analytics uses data obtained from data sources via one or more appropriate adapters of the adapter layer and integrated by the factory layer to produce its output. Example data may include John had home location and location tags throughout wiki forum activities indicating his coverage profile. The Impact Analytics module may produce as output John s coverage impact is represented in an ordered list of location traces. Data searching data mining or extraction and or text processing techniques may be used to produce such output.

Yet as another example Impact Analytics Prior Activities and its inputs and outputs are described as follows. Inputs may include task type impact calculation rules . For example a campaign designer defines inputs as Picture Taking Heat map of prior activities Picture Taking Time of day distribution of prior activities . Impact Analytics uses data obtained from data sources via one or more appropriate adapters of the adapter layer and integrated by the factory layer to produce its output. Example data may include John has been reporting various pictures through many prior campaigns. The Impact Analytics module may produce as output John s historical impact is represented in the form of heat map of prior activities as well as time of day distribution. 

CEP App e.g. at provides functionalities for logging editing adding entries of physical activities e.g. shown in diet and weight e.g. shown in . For example CEP App allows participants to enter their own physical activities e.g. number of minutes spent on running busing driving and also the intensity of the physical activities e.g. low moderate high. Using CEP App participants may also enter information such as the quantity of certain foods consumed e.g. fruits vegetable servings snacks rich desserts etc.

CEP App also allows for goal setting logging based on goals and monitoring and tracking of the progress of the goals e.g. . For example a participant may set personal goal and log associated data based on the goals. For instance users participants may log the type and quantity of certain foods consumed e.g. snacks fruits vegetable servings deserts etc. and eating frequencies intervals weight and physical activities.

The personal assistant App CEP App also enables team comparison and or comparison with anonymous aggregate data of other participants. For example physical activities of a participant or a group of participants team may be compared with statistic data such as Average Walking Minutes of all active users of the CEP App e.g. per day per week Average Running Minutes of all active users e.g. per day per week Average Driving Minutes of all active users e.g. per day per week . As another example diet of a participant or a group of participants team may be compared with statistic data such as Average quantity of certain foods consumed e.g. fruits vegetable servings snacks rich desserts etc. of all active users e.g. per day per week Average frequency interval of certain foods consumed of all active users e.g. per day per week . Yet as another example weight of a participant or a group of participants team may be compared with statistic data such as Average weight of all active users e.g. most recent .

CEP App may be a mobile application downloaded and installed on a user s mobile device e.g. smartphone. CEP App may provide authentication functionalities to authenticate a user to use the CEP App. For example CEP App may display a login screen for the user to enter a user ID and password in order to access and use the application. Also a user may be presented with an end user license agreement e.g. on a display screen of the mobile device which the user would agree to accept e.g. by clicking a button on a display screen. In one aspect the login information e.g. user ID and password may be provided by a city e.g. the CEP platform owner.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure smarter water and or smarter electricity data may be linked with CEP App. For example if a user owns an anonymous unique identifier UID that was previously used to participate in the Smarter Water Portal and or the Smarter Electricity Portal aka Primary UID the user may be able to see his water data and or electricity data associated with the user s smart meters when using this UID to log in. Any other UIDs assigned by the City can only see the person s own wellness data but can be added by a Primary UID and be authenticated to see the view of water and or electricity data for the household. For example shows another Dashboard page on which a UID that is not associated with any water smart meter cannot see any water.

Logging page enables logging goal setting monitoring tracking based on goals of physical activities diet and weight. shows an example logging page. A user can select Setup Log from Log page to add entries in Log Setup page to enable tracking. shows an example log setup page. shows a log setup entry page via which a user may enter goals and track progress.

Activities page displays users physical activities history for users to review and enables users to add new activities as well as edit correct the activities from the history. illustrates a physical activities and history display page in one embodiment of the present disclosure. illustrates a page through which entries may be added. For instance selecting e.g. clicking an add button from the activities page may display the add activity page shown in . is another example screen illustrating a physical activities page in one embodiment of the present disclosure. shows another example of a page via which entries may be edited. For instance selecting e.g. clicking an activity e.g. walking from the activities screen show in may navigate to the display shown in for editing the walking activity.

 Teams page shows comparison with anonymous aggregate data of other participants based on the goals. For example users can start one or more new team with some description of the team s objective e.g. healthy eating or weight loss etc. and invite others to join the team. Functions for teams may include create join leave delete the team function names could change but capabilities would be similar to what s described here . Via the teams page users may view comparisons of their own data with anonymous aggregate data of other participants. For example user s physical activities can be compared with Average Walking Minutes of all active users e.g. per day per week Average Running Minutes of all active users per day per week Average Driving Minutes of all active users e.g. per day per week user s diet information may be compared with Average quantity of certain foods consumed e.g. fruits vegetable servings snacks rich desserts etc. of all active users e.g. per day per week Average frequency and or interval of certain foods consumed of all active users e.g. per day per week user s weight information may be compared with Average weight of all active users e.g. most recent .

 More page may show additional functions e.g. which may be used less frequently. For example more page may include the following menu items Application Status shows application network and device information License Agreement shown for the first time use of the App Send Feedback enables users to send comments via email Sensor Identifier enables the App to retrieve user s activities based on the sensor ID Sign Out logs a user off the App Setup Log enables users to set up goals for monitoring and tracking. shows an example more page in one embodiment of the present disclosure. shows application status page navigated from the more page in one embodiment of the present disclosure. shows a page navigated from the more page through which feedback may be composed. shows an example sensor page via which a user may enter a sensor ID. CEP App then may communicate with the identified sensor to automatically retrieve sensor data from the sensor device identified by entered sensor ID. shows an example of a log out page in one embodiment of the present disclosure which a user may use to sign out of CEP App.

In another aspect of the present disclosure method and apparatus for conducting effective surveys and improving the return of user participation rate through impact analysis and tuning may be provided. A method and apparatus for conducting effective surveys and improving the return of user participation rate through impact analysis and tuning may improve the return of user participation rate for an effective survey based on impact analysis analyze user s potential impact to the survey based on a set of selected attributes such as financial salary earned household income etc. age location education attitude etc. for a targeted scenario or scenarios and tune and adapt the survey to a set of targeted candidates based on the selected attributes to improve the rate of user participation. Such method and apparatus may provide a reminder mechanism that adjusts frequency and communication channels by analyzing past survey response characteristics of similar participants wherein similar participants were the participants who have similar demographic attributes.

Yet in another aspect of the present disclosure method and apparatus for effectively analyzing the accuracy and trustworthiness of survey answers through reputation analytics may be provided. A method and apparatus for an effective way of analyzing the accuracy or trustworthiness of the survey answers through reputation analytics may identify the participant s reputation based on prior participation activities e.g. prior responses to survey questions and citizen engagement programs as well as social profiles etc. Such method and apparatus may analyze and aggregate survey answers based on each participant s level of trustworthiness via one or more criteria e.g. reliability responsiveness prior experience and prior survey activities etc. Such method and apparatus may also quantify a participant s trustworthiness for a target survey based on the goals and contexts of the survey. Such method and apparatus may also analyze the trustworthiness of a participant via reputation analytics that combines one or more attributes e.g. a person s occupation personal experience the composition of a person s prior survey participation history based on a tuple of correctness consistency relevance and education level etc. and provide a context parsing and profiling mechanism that analyzes survey contents and corresponding attributes of each participant.

Yet in another aspect of the present disclosure method and apparatus for improving survey participation rate with an incentive mechanism may be provided. A method and apparatus for improving survey participation rate with an incentive mechanism that optimizes the incentive returns may analyze and aggregate survey types and goals to identify target customers and incentives. Such method and apparatus may analyze target customers and incentives by using results of similar surveys conducted previously Identify target customers based on demographic attributes for those who with high tendency to respond to changes in incentive amount frequency and latency Calculate incentives based on changes in response rates at the time incentives are given Provide an incentive delivery mechanism where the incentive analytics divides the total amount of incentives provided at the survey design time into smaller chunks where each smaller chunk is being offered to those who will likely accept it by completing survey questions to increase the potential response rate of the participants and optimize the incentive returns by identifying the optimal amount of the incentive of the smaller chunk so as to maximize the number of participants that can receive the incentive and deliver it in a variable amount for the smaller chunk based on a participant s reputation and or trustworthiness e.g. more incentive for more trustworthy participants.

Yet in another aspect method and apparatus for automated and effective sensing detecting and classifying human micro mobility activities to produce accurate classification of the type and duration of an activity may be provided. A method and apparatus for automated and effective sensing detecting and classifying human micro mobility activities to produce accurate classification of the type and duration of an activity may sense the human daily micro mobility activities e.g. jogging jumping stepping motion e.g. treadmill stepping up and down e.g. aerobic exercises using sensing devices e.g. mobile phone Engage users to actively give feedback in a diary and or other logging and add new activities that are not sensed by the system Enable user assisted learning to allow users to edit and reclassify system logged activities to improve accuracy Detect patterns of misclassification and Automatically correct misclassification through learning obtained iteratively through data provided by users e.g. new and edited activities.

The computer system may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The computer system may be practiced in distributed cloud computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed cloud computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

The components of computer system may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including system memory to processor . The processor may implement CEP functionalities that perform the methods described herein. The module may be programmed into the integrated circuits of the processor or loaded from memory storage device or network or combinations thereof.

Bus may represent one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

Computer system may include a variety of computer system readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer system and it may include both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

System memory can include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory or others. Computer system may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example only storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media e.g. a hard drive . Although not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces.

Computer system may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a user to interact with computer system and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via Input Output I O interfaces .

Still yet computer system can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted network adapter communicates with the other components of computer system via bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components could be used in conjunction with computer system. Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems etc.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages a scripting language such as Perl VBS or similar languages and or functional languages such as Lisp and ML and logic oriented languages such as Prolog. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The computer program product may comprise all the respective features enabling the implementation of the methodology described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out the methods. Computer program software program program or software in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation and or b reproduction in a different material form.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements if any in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Various aspects of the present disclosure may be embodied as a program software or computer instructions embodied in a computer or machine usable or readable medium which causes the computer or machine to perform the steps of the method when executed on the computer processor and or machine. A program storage device readable by a machine tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by the machine to perform various functionalities and methods described in the present disclosure is also provided.

The system and method of the present disclosure may be implemented and run on a general purpose computer or special purpose computer system. The terms computer system and computer network as may be used in the present application may include a variety of combinations of fixed and or portable computer hardware software peripherals and storage devices. The computer system may include a plurality of individual components that are networked or otherwise linked to perform collaboratively or may include one or more stand alone components. The hardware and software components of the computer system of the present application may include and may be included within fixed and portable devices such as desktop laptop and or server. A module may be a component of a device software program or system that implements some functionality which can be embodied as software hardware firmware electronic circuitry or etc.

The embodiments described above are illustrative examples and it should not be construed that the present invention is limited to these particular embodiments. Thus various changes and modifications may be effected by one skilled in the art without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

