---

title: Propagating user feedback on shared posts
abstract: Propagating user feedback on shared posts is described, including receiving a user indication associated with repost content. The repost content is associated with post content. The post content includes at least one item provided on a website. The repost content includes at least one other item provided on another website or the website, and the at least one other item is associated with the at least one item. The repost content is determined to be associated with the post content. Post feedback data based on the user indication is identified. The post feedback data is associated with the post content, and the post feedback data represents previous user indication. The post feedback data is updated based on the user indication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09355080&OS=09355080&RS=09355080
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09355080
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140424
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 414 489 filed Mar. 7 2012 claiming priority under 35 USC 120 the contents of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The discussion below relates generally to online communications or social networks and more particularly to propagating user feedback on shared posts.

A social network or social networking service is an online platform or website that provides services focusing on reflecting relationships among users. For example users on a social network can establish circles of relationships e.g. family members and friends in one circle hiking buddies or users having similar interest or hobby in another circle professional acquaintances in a third circle etc. . A user on a social network can share with other users on that social network e.g. a circle of users a set of friends etc. many types of information content or posts.

Content shared from one user to another user first level receiver can be reposted or re shared by the first level receiver to more users second level receivers . These additional users may further re share the content downstream to other users third fourth or higher level receivers . Recipients of the posts or reposts on any level can re share the received content. However the original poster or upstream users are unaware of the content being re shared more than one level downstream and therefore are unaware of the popularity of the content.

Propagating user feedback on shared posts is described. The subject matter includes a method for receiving a user indication associated with repost content. The repost content is associated with post content. The post content includes at least one item provided on a website. The repost content includes at least one other item provided on another website or the website and the at least one other item is associated with the at least one item. The repost content is determined to be associated with the post content. Post feedback data based on the user indication is identified. The post feedback data is associated with the post content and the post feedback data represents previous user indication. The post feedback data is updated based on the user indication.

According to an example embodiment a repost includes at least a portion of a post. The post is posted by a first user the repost is posted by a second user and the user indication is received from a third user.

According to an example embodiment a post is provided on one part of the website. A repost which includes a least a portion of the post is provided on another part of the website or on another website.

According to an example embodiment a post and a repost form a tree structure with the post being a parent or grandparent of the repost the post is at the root of the tree structure.

According to an example embodiment a user indication is propagated up the tree structure to a level where the post content resides. Previous user indications include aggregation of user indications associated with at least one of the post content and at least one repost content at one or more levels lower than the level where the post content resides.

According to an example embodiment a user indication is of one of a plurality of types of user indications. Each of the plurality of types of user indications is associated with a corresponding one of a plurality of post feedback data associated with a post. The post feedback data is identified based on the user indication. The identifying includes identifying the one of the plurality of types of user indications and identifying the post feedback data as one of the plurality of post feedback data corresponding to the identified one of the plurality of types of user indications.

According to an example embodiment the user indication includes an indication associated with activating a 1 control.

According to an example embodiment the user indication includes an indication associated with activating a Share control or Comment control.

An example embodiment includes storing an association of the post content and the repost content the association identifies the post content associated with the repost content.

According to an example embodiment the post feedback data is numerical data the user indication is represented by a numeric value and updating the post feedback data includes adding the numeric value to the post feedback data.

An example embodiment includes determining a type of comment data which are included with the repost content and the updating the feedback data is performed if the type of comment data is of a positive type.

According to an example embodiment the determining the type of the comment data includes using a natural language processing algorithm to process the comment data.

According to an example embodiment the determining the type of the comment data includes matching the comment data with at least one text string.

An example embodiment further includes updating a source data to incorporate an identity of a user provided the user indication the source data is associated with the feedback data.

An example embodiment includes determining a privacy setting and the updating of the source data is based on the privacy setting.

According to an example embodiment the updating the post feedback data is performed based on determining a user setting allowing the updating and the user indication and the user setting are associated with the same user.

The subject matter includes a non transitory computer readable medium having stored therein computer executable instructions for receiving a user indication associated with repost content. The repost content is associated with post content. The post content includes at least one item provided on a website. The repost content includes at least one other item provided on another website or the website and the at least one other item is associated with the at least one item. The repost content is determined to be associated with the post content. Post feedback data based on the user indication is identified. The post feedback data is associated with the post content and the post feedback data represents previous user indication. The post feedback data is updated based on the user indication.

The subject matter includes at least one computing device collectively having storage and at least one processor configured to receive a user indication associated with repost content. The repost content is associated with post content. The post content includes at least one item provided on a website. The repost content includes at least one other item provided on another website or the website and the at least one other item is associated with the at least one item. The repost content is determined to be associated with the post content. Post feedback data based on the user indication is identified. The post feedback data is associated with the post content and the post feedback data represents previous user indication. The post feedback data is updated based on the user indication.

The subject matter includes a computer implemented method that includes receiving input indicating selection of a user interface UI element wherein the UI element is associated with a second UI element representing a repost identifying a post associated with the repost wherein the repost includes at least a portion of the post a link to access the post or both updating feedback associated with the post based on the input and providing a third UI element representing the feedback and a fourth UI element representing the post.

An example embodiment includes determining that the repost further comprises a comment and determining a type of the comment wherein the updating is not performed if the type is not a positive type.

An example embodiment includes determining a privacy setting configured to affect updating a feedback source the feedback source is updated to include an identity associated with the input if the privacy setting contains a value. Further wherein the feedback source is not updated if the privacy setting does not contain the value.

An example embodiment includes a fifth UI element associated with the third UI element the fifth UI element is configured to trigger a presentation of additional information associated with the feedback.

According to an example embodiment a list of identities of users who have provided the feedback is provided. The list of identities is triggered by the activation of the fifth UI element.

The subject matter described herein is taught by way of example embodiments. Various details have been omitted for the sake of clarity and to avoid obscuring the subject matter.

Examples shown below are directed to structures and functions for implementing propagating user feedback on shared posts to upstream posts including original posts. For example an endorsement or comment e.g. feedback on a repost can be propagated regardless of how many levels away to an upstream post. Propagating feedback upstream may promote more sharing or re sharing of content.

Users who produce post share content on various social networks blogs information sharing sites or the Internet may appreciate feedback on the content they posted or reposted. Users who receive shared content regardless of how many levels they may be downstream from the users who share the content may provide comments or otherwise provide feedback on the content. One or more types of feedback including but not limited to positive negative neutral and general feedback can be included collected or gathered to provide channel or propagate to the posters. In some situations positive feedback may help direct credit to the poster and encourage further content creation posting and sharing.

In an example embodiment Alice shown using display may post content Alice s post to one of Alice s circle of users that may include Bob. Display may illustrate a view similar to those seen by Alice and Bob. Display includes Alice s information her post controls feedback data and feedback data controls and .

Alice s information may include a thumbnail image e.g. of her face or of any subject and her identifier Alice e.g. name alias nickname pseudonym or the like . In some example embodiments information may include other information e.g. the date of her post . In some example embodiments Alice s information may include less more or different information. Her post may include any content or combination of content such as an image or a link to an image e.g. the image of two cranes . There may be different or other content not shown such as a description of the image. In some example embodiments post may include a comment from Alice made at the time of or after posting the image of two cranes.

Feedback data can be provided using one or more controls . For example in Alice s view Alice may see post that she has shared e.g. with one of Alice s circle and may use controls to 1 comment on and or share post with another one of Alice s circles. The 1 control object or link is a shorthand for users to endorse Alice s post or otherwise express likeness appreciation a vote or the like to Alice s effort and post .

Feedback data shows the feedback from users using controls similar to controls . For example feedback data shows that her post has attracted clicks on the 1 control feedback data shows that her post has been shared 28 times and feedback data shows that her post has received 11 comments. Feedback data controls and allow Alice to view for example who has shared her post and who has commented on her post . In some example embodiments one or more of feedback data can serve as feedback data controls. For example clicking on feedback data will trigger a display of a list of identities of users who have provided feedback using the 1 control.

Bob s display may present a view similar to Alice s view Charlie s view or a different view not shown . Bob who received Alice s original post may share the post e.g. repost Alice s post with one of Bob s circles of users which may include Charlie. Bob shares post by for example activating a Share control or . The post shared by Bob is shown as repost . In the process of or after sharing post Bob may for example add a comment Check this out Charlie Beautiful landing .

Display shows for example Charlie s view including Bob s information his post which is a repost containing Alice s information her post and repost information which indicates that post is a repost of Alice s post . Charlie has access to controls feedback data and feedback data controls . When Charlie selects the 1 control e.g. clicks on control feedback data which may include feedback from other users e.g. users in Bob s circle and or downstream users may change for example from 8 to 9 to include Charlie s feedback.

Display illustrates that a post or repost can be shared with users any number of levels downstream such as five 10 20 32 143 or more. Display shows for example Sam re sharing Alice s post with Terri. Sam may be for example more than 20 levels downstream from Alice Charlie Bob or another user who receives Alice s post directly from Alice or indirectly via re sharing. Display shows Sam s information his post which is a repost containing Alice s information her post and repost information which indicates that post is a repost of Alice s post . In some example embodiments post may include a comment from Sam made at the time of or after reposting Alice s post . Terri has access to controls feedback data and feedback data controls . When Terri activates the 1 control e.g. double clicks or hovers a mouse over control for a time period such as but is not limited to one second feedback data which may include feedback from other users e.g. users in Sam s circle and or downstream users may change for example from 0 to 1 to include Terri s feedback.

According to one example embodiment there can be any number of types of feedback. For example three types are illustrated in environment . In addition to a positive endorsement type of feedback which may be provided via a 1 control and the like environment shows a comment type of feedback and a share type of feedback. In some example embodiments negative feedback e.g. an expression of a dislike may be provided. Using a Comment control or a user may provide a comment as a feedback. For example referring to view Bob may provide a comment to Alice s post using control . Referring to view Bob may provide a comment to his repost using control . A user may provide a comment in one example by activating a Comment control or e.g. clicking on it then inputting a comment to a pop up text box or other input widget or mechanism e.g. selecting a comment from a list of comments . Feedback data or shows comment feedback.

In some examples a user may share or re share content by activating a Share control or . A mechanism not shown may be provided to configure what is being shared. For example the mechanism may allow a user to add a statement e.g. Check this out Charlie Beautiful landing select a content portion to share and or choose to share a link in place of or in addition to the content etc. In the example of environment sharing content produces share feedback data. Feedback data or shows share feedback e.g. the number of times a post or repost has been shared .

Services provider may provide any computing services and may be implemented using any number of computing devices. Services provider may provide for example social networking services or websites. In some examples one computing device may implement all the services. In other examples two three five 12 28 150 2472 or more computing devices collectively provide the services described herein. A computing device e.g. computing device may be referred to as a server a client a system or by another label. For simplicity services provider is used in describing the subject matter herein. It should be understood by people who are familiar with this field that a function a service any number of functions or any number of services provided by services provider can be implemented using one or more computing devices in any configuration and division of the functions or services and using any structure. Services provider is further described in below.

As used herein the term post verb or share verb refers to putting original content or non original content on an online platform site or website. The same term post verb or share verb may also refer to putting a posted or shared content on an online platform site or website which may or may not be the same platform where the posted or shared content is found.

As used herein the term repost verb or re share verb refers to putting a posted or shared content on an online platform site or website which may or may not be the same platform where the posted or shared content is found.

As used herein the term post noun or repost noun refers to content that has been posted reposted shared or re shared. Content that has been posted reposted shared or re shared Content 1 can be further posted reposted shared or re shared with more users Content 2 . Content 2 may or may not be the same as Content 2. For example Content 2 may be a link to Content 1. Content 2 may include additional information e.g. annotation or comments not found in Content 1. Content 2 may include only part of Content 1.

As used herein the term content with respect to a post or repost refers to any data or information that can be posted or shared on an online platform site or website. Examples of content may include but are not limited to any literal expression e.g. a writing document information comment suggestion recommendation webpage or the like and any artistic expression in any medium e.g. any writing images video audio any part thereof any combination thereof e.g. provided in a webpage and any representation thereof e.g. a link an audio representation and a visual representation of any literal and or artistic expression .

As used herein the term website or web site or site refers to a set of web pages for providing or supporting related services. A website can be hosted on at least one computing device e.g. a system server web server application server client or any label accessible via a network or connection wired and or wireless . A website can be accessed and or supported using at least one top level Uniform Resource Locator URL e.g. abc.gov 123.org zxc.com bestads.com virtualbank.com and the like . A website can be operated and or supported by one or more business entities. For example ZXC Corporation may operate the website zxc.com that includes web pages content and or services from zxc.bestads.com e.g. advertisement services provided by another firm and virtualbank.com zxc payment services e.g. financial services provided by a financial institution .

At services provider determines whether Bob s post is a repost or an original post . If the result of 220 is no Bob s post is not a re shared post but is instead an original post and thus process ends. If the result of 220 is yes process flows to . In one example a repost of a post may include an association field storing information relating to the post. If the post is a repost determined at block at services provider detects determines or identifies that this field exists or is not empty which indicates that Bob s post is a repost of Alice s post . In other examples determining the post associated with a repost may be performed differently such as by looking for the upstream poster s information or repost information .

At services provider processes Bob s information to determine whether a comment was entered with a repost e.g. if there is data in a comment field for comment or . Note that a comment provided by a user sharing or re sharing a post e.g. comment or is different from a comment provided by a recipient of a post of repost e.g. comment provided using control or . Processing flows to if Bob did not enter a comment. If there is a comment e.g. comment and its type is determined at to be negative or unsure process ends. If the comment type is positive services provider updates and records Charlie s endorsement on Alice s post which is reflected by changing feedback data from 79 to 80 not shown for example. In some example embodiments process does not include blocks and and process flows from to not shown .

Services provider identifies which feedback data e.g. post feedback data in Alice s view to update based on the user indication. In this example the user indication is generated using a 1 control e.g. control and services provider identifies that post feedback data is associated with a 1 control.

The content and type of Bob s comment e.g. Check this out Charlie Beautiful landing can be determined differently in different example embodiments. In some example embodiments Bob s comment is matched against known phrases such as worth reading interesting good point good post and the like that convey a similar connotation e.g. a positive one . In other example embodiments Bob s comment can be processed using one or more natural language processing algorithms. After determining that Bob s comment is of a positive type for example Charlie s 1 feedback to Bob s post is propagated and recorded to Alice s post . Propagating Charlie s feedback causes feedback data in display to change for example from 79 to 80 not shown . Feedback data shows previous feedback from users who have received Alice s post and users who have received post as reposts e.g. reposts and .

In some example embodiments information about the sharing of a repost and comments to a repost e.g. repost are propagated to an upstream post e.g. post . In these example embodiments feedback data and respectively in display may be updated to include the feedback provided using for example the Share and Comment controls associated with repost display .

In some example embodiments identities of the users who have provided feedback are propagated upstream along with their feedback. For example when Charlie s 1 feedback is propagated to feedback data described above Charlie s identity is also propagated. Feedback data which can function as a control to show who has provided the feedback can be clicked on to reveal Charlie s identity along with the identities of those who have provided feedback not shown in . For share feedback for example when feedback data control is used a list of users not shown in who have shared e.g. reposted post can be revealed. Similarly feedback data control may trigger the display of users who have commented on post or repost .

In some example embodiments users are given a mechanism to control their privacy or propagation of their feedback and or identities. In these example embodiments a user such as Charlie can indicate e.g. through one or more settings or controls that he does not want his identity to be propagated with his feedback. When services provider propagates Charlie s feedback his privacy settings are checked at . If the privacy settings indicate that Charlie s identity information is set to hidden Charlie s identity information is not propagated along with his feedback and process ends. As such activating any of the feedback data controls e.g. controls and may show only the identities of other users who have provided feedback but have not indicated hiding their identities. Charlie s identity however will not be shown according to his privacy settings. If Charlie has not indicated that he wants to hide his identity Charlie s identity is propagated and recorded on Alice s post at .

Process is illustrated above using 1 feedback and the corresponding feedback data and . Additionally the same or a different process may be used to process Comment and or Share feedback. For example at Charlie may comment on or share Bob s post e.g. using controls and respectively . At Charlie s comment and share indication is recorded on Bob s post e.g. feedback data . There may be little or no processing deviation at and . Further may be omitted and may be applied to Charlie s comment feedback or omitted. At Charlie s comment or share indication may be recorded on Alice s post . Charlie s privacy settings affect the processing at and as described above.

In some example embodiments a user can indicate using one or more settings that he does not want his feedback to propagate e.g. recording feedback only to the current post .

In some example embodiments an in between user e.g. Bob in the user stream example of Alice Bob Charlie may be given one or more settings to control information flowing through the in between user. For example feedback on reposts will only be propagated through Bob upstream if the Bob has opted into allowing such data sharing. In other example embodiments such data sharing will be shared unless Bob opts out.

In some example embodiments an in between user e.g. Bob may configure to only allow feedback to be populated from a downstream user through Bob to an upstream user if the downstream and upstream users are within a certain number of levels or social steps of each other. e.g. Charlie through Bob to Alice might be two levels or steps . In other example embodiments there may not be any level restriction.

Each node shows a post P1 P7 Pm Pn or Po. A post except the one at the root node is a repost of a parent post. For example post P2 is a repost R1 of the root post P1 . Each node e.g. each post is illustrated with input controls I1 I3 e.g. 1 Comment and Share controls and feedback data F1 F3 e.g. feedback data . Three input controls are illustrated but any number of input controls can be implemented along corresponding or non corresponding number of feedback data.

In some example embodiments feedback provided at a node is propagated to a parent node to the parent node above that and to the parent node above that and so on up to the root node . For example feedback provided using the 12 control of node is updated e.g. incorporated with feedback data F2 of node propagated up to F2 of node propagated up to F2 of node then propagated to root node . In other example embodiments the feedback propagation up the tree is subject to privacy or other settings of the user at node and or any of the nodes and .

In some example embodiments feedback regardless of which level it originates from is only propagated to the original post e.g. to P1 at root node . Referring back to for example all feedback in these embodiments is propagated only to Alice s post view .

The identified post feedback data associated with Alice s post is updated based on the feedback . In some example embodiments where feedback is represented by a value e.g. 1 or any number updating the post feedback data involves adding the value to the post feedback data. The post feedback data represent previous feedback which can be zero or empty if there is no previous feedback. In other example embodiments updating the post feedback data can be performed differently based on the representation of the feedback and post feedback data e.g. updating by incorporating appending concatenating averaging retaining a maximum or minimum value or by other calculation computation or manipulation .

In some example embodiments the identity of the user e.g. Charlie who has provided feedback is recorded or indicated on Alice s post. The identity may be shown for example using a feedback data control e.g. one of controls and feedback data serving as feedback data controls described above . A feedback data control may be associated with an underlying feedback source data not shown . For example clicking on a feedback data control will trigger a display of a list of identities stored in a corresponding feedback source data of users who have provided comments using a Comment control or . There may be one feedback source data associated with each post feedback data .

In some example embodiments one or more settings e.g. privacy settings of the user e.g. Charlie may be checked to determine whether to propagate the user s identity e.g. Charlie s identity to Alice s post. For example a setting may be provided to Charlie for him to indicate whether he wants his identity to be propagated with his feedback e.g. using a 1 Comment or Share control .

In some example embodiments a setting may be provided for each type of feedback e.g. a setting associated with each of post feedback data . For example a setting for the comment type of feedback may be a name value pair of Propagate my identity with my comments I O where the value of 1 indicates propagating and 0 indicates not propagating. When Charlie provides a comment e.g. using a Comment control the value in a privacy setting e.g. Propagate my identity with my comments setting is identified . The feedback source data associated with comment feedback is updated based on the identified value . If the value is 1 the feedback source data is updated to include Charlie s identity. If the value is 0 the feedback source data is not updated or updated to ensure Charlie s identity is not included. The updated post feedback data and or the updated feedback source data may be stored 430 .

In some example embodiments the above process may be implemented with more fewer or different procedures. For example the execution in one or more of blocks may be omitted.

Feedback data and are identified because they are associated with post . Which one of feedback data and to update is identified based on the control used in providing the user input or feedback. In some example embodiments the updated feedback is stored. The updated feedback e.g. feedback data is provided to be displayed using another UI element e.g. feedback data . A UI element can be graphical textual or in another form. In some example embodiments the above process may be implemented with more fewer or different procedures.

Computing device can be communicatively coupled to input user interface and output device interface . Either one or both of input user interface and output device interface can be wired or wireless interface and can be detachable. Input user interface includes any device component sensor or interface physical or virtual that can be used to provide input e.g. keyboard a pointing cursor control microphone camera braille motion sensor optical reader or the like . Output device interface includes a display monitor printer speaker braille or the like. In some example embodiments input user interface and output device interface can be embedded with or physically coupled to computing device e.g. a mobile computing device with buttons or touch screen input user interface and an output or printing display or a television .

Computing device can be communicatively coupled to external storage and network for communicating with any number of networked components devices and systems including one or more computing devices of same or different configuration. Computing device or any connected computing device can be functioning as providing services of or referred to as a server client thin server general machine special purpose machine or by other label.

I O interface can include but is not limited to wired and or wireless interfaces using any communication or I O protocols or standards e.g. Ethernet 802.11x Universal System Bus WiMax modem a cellular network protocol and the like for communicating information to and or from at least all the connected components devices and network in computing environment . Network can be any network or combination of networks e.g. the Internet local area network wide area network a telephonic network a cellular network satellite network and the like .

Computing device can use and or communicate using computer usable or computer readable media including transitory media and non transitory media. Transitory media include transmission media e.g. metal cables fiber optics signals carrier waves and the like. Non transitory media include magnetic media e.g. disks and tapes optical media e.g. CD ROM digital video disks Blu ray disks solid state media e.g. RAM ROM flash memory solid state storage and other non volatile storage or memory.

Computing device can be used to implement techniques methods applications processes or computer executable instructions to implement at least one embodiment e.g. a described embodiment . Computer executable instructions can be retrieved from transitory media and stored on and retrieved from non transitory media. The executable instructions can be originated from one or more of any programming scripting and machine languages e.g. C C C Java Visual Basic Python Perl JavaScript and others .

Processor s can execute under any operating system OS not shown in a native or virtual environment. To implement a described embodiment one or more applications can be deployed that include logic unit application programming interface API unit input unit output unit feedback management unit comment processing unit privacy management unit and inter unit communication mechanism for the different units to communicate with each other with the OS and with other applications not shown . For example feedback management unit comment processing unit and privacy management unit may implement one or more processes shown in . The described units and elements can be varied in design function configuration or implementation and are not limited to the descriptions provided.

In some example embodiments when information or an execution instruction is received by API unit it may be communicated to one or more other units e.g. logic unit input unit output unit feedback management unit comment processing unit and privacy management unit . For example after input unit has detected a user indication or feedback input unit may use API unit to communicate the user indication to feedback management unit . Feedback management unit may via API unit interact with the comment processing unit to detect and process a comment. Using API unit feedback management unit may interact with privacy management unit to determine whether to propagate the feedback and or identify information to an upstream post.

In some examples logic unit may be configured to control the information flow among the units and direct the services provided by API unit input unit output unit settings management unit settings mapping unit and privacy management unit in order to implement an embodiment described above. For example the flow of one or more processes or implementations may be controlled by logic unit alone or in conjunction with API unit .

Although a few example embodiments have been shown and described these example embodiments are provided to convey the subject matter described herein to people who are familiar with this field. It should be understood that the subject matter described herein may be embodied in various forms without being limited to the described example embodiments. The subject matter described herein can be practiced without those specifically defined or described matters or with other or different elements or matters not described. It will be appreciated by those familiar with this field that changes may be made in these example embodiments without departing from the subject matter described herein as defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

