---

title: Multi-directional and variable speed navigation of collage multi-media
abstract: In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure, methods and apparatus are provided for flexible and user-friendly navigation of loaded media in a multi-media presentation, such that a user may be able to view and/or edit the presentation. In one embodiment, a method for navigating loaded media comprises loading a page of a collage document to a client device, the page having a plurality of layers with each layer being associated with a media object. The method further includes creating a list of layers of the loaded page, each layer indexed by at least a position in the collage document; navigating the collage document in at least one direction and at at least one speed based on user input; and filtering the list of layers based on at least the position in the collage document and a visual window of a user interface to display visible layers of the page within the visual window. A client device for navigating loaded media is also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09658754&OS=09658754&RS=09658754
owner: EBAY INC.
number: 09658754
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141118
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 495 684 now issued U.S. Pat. No. 8 893 015 filed Jun. 30 2009 and a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 347 829 now issued U.S. Pat. No. 8 365 092 filed Dec. 31 2008 which claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 078 288 filed Jul. 3 2008 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

This application is related to pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 347 638 filed Dec. 31 2008 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 347 747 filed Dec. 31 2008 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 347 749 now issued U.S. Pat. No. 8 627 192 filed Dec. 31 2008 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention generally relates to network based multi media presentations and more particularly to navigation of media in such a multi media presentation on a client device.

Presently when creating and posting online media presentations a user must typically purchase conventional media presentation software which may be expensive create a media presentation with the conventional media presentation software which is often time consuming upload the file for the media presentation and then post a link to a file for online access to the created media presentation which may require security features. To view the media presentation another user must access the site storing the file pass some form of access security features download the file from the communication network and have the same software that created the file for viewing. However this sequence of creating and downloading the media presentation is often expensive time consuming and inconvenient for each user involved in the process. As such there exists a need to simplify the process of creating and viewing online media presentations over a communication network.

Furthermore once the media presentation is created and saved a user must be able to access view and or edit the presentation over a network which can require large amounts of bandwidth and time if done inefficiently and in particular when dealing with large amounts of media objects. Thus methods and apparatus for efficiently and effectively navigating media in a media presentation delivered over a network is desirable.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure methods and apparatus are provided for flexible and user friendly navigation of loaded media in a multi media presentation such that a user may be able to view and or edit the presentation.

In one embodiment a method for navigating loaded media comprises loading a page of a collage document to a client device the page having a plurality of layers with each layer being associated with a media object. The method further includes creating a list of layers of the loaded page each layer indexed by at least a position in the collage document navigating the collage document in at least one direction and at at least one speed based on user input and filtering the list of layers based on at least the position in the collage document and a visual window of a user interface to display visible layers of the page within the visual window. A client device for navigating loaded media is also disclosed.

These and other features of the present disclosure will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which are described below.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same. It is also noted that figures are not necessarily drawn to scale.

Systems and methods disclosed herein in accordance with one or more embodiments facilitate publishing sharing and or broadcasting multi media presentations over a network for viewing by other users in communication with the network. In one embodiment the multi media presentation may be published or distributed to a site accessible via the network for viewing by one or more other network users in communication with the network. In another embodiment the multi media presentation may be directly emailed to one or more recipients i.e. other network users . In still another embodiment an associated URL link for the multi media presentation may be given e.g. via email or some type of text message to one or more recipients i.e. other network users for direct access to the multi media presentation. In yet another embodiment source code for the multi media presentation may be embedded in a web page via the network.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure methods and apparatus are further provided for efficient flexible and user friendly navigation of loaded media in a multi media presentation over a network such that a user may be able to view and or edit the presentation for example when sharing and or broadcasting the presentation.

The network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments the network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example the network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. a cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet. As such in various embodiments the at least one client device the multi media distribution channels and the at least one service provider device may be associated with a particular link e.g. a link such as a URL Uniform Resource Locator to an IP Internet Protocol address .

The at least one client device in various embodiments may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware firmware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . In various implementations the client device may be implemented as a personal computing device e.g. a personal computer PC in communication with the network . In various other implementations the client device may be implemented as one or more wireless telephones e.g. cell phones personal digital assistants PDAs notebook computers and or various other generally known types of wired and or wireless computing devices. It should be appreciated that the client device may be referred to as a user device or a customer device without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The client device in one embodiment includes a user interface application which may be utilized by a user to conduct information transactions with the distribution channels and the service provider device over the network . For example the user interface application may be implemented as a multi media presentation application to collect create and publish information via the network . In various implementations multi media presentations may be published to and or shared with one or more of the multi media channels via the user interface application over the network .

In one implementation the user interface application comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the multi media channels and the service provider device via the network . In another implementation the user interface application comprises a browser module that provides a network interface to browse information available over the network . For example the user interface application may be implemented in part as a web browser to view information available over the network . In another example the user is able to access multi media websites via the one or more multi media channels to view collect and publish multi media presentations over the network .

The client device in various embodiments may include other applications as may be desired in one or more implementations to provide additional features available to the user . In one example such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or various other types of generally known programs and or applications. In other examples these other applications may interface with the user interface application for improved efficiency and convenience. For example files data and or various types of information may be imported from multi media software directly into the user interface application for ease of access to multi media files e.g. audio video pictures clip art etc. .

The client device in various embodiments may include a user identifier which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the user interface application identifiers associated with hardware of the client device or various other appropriate identifiers. The user identifier may include attributes related to the user such as personal information e.g. a user name password etc. . In one implementation the user identifier may be passed to the service provider device during publishing and or sharing of a multi media presentation.

The multi media distribution channels in one embodiment may be maintained by one or more resource providers and or entities e.g. social networking sites resource information sites management sites merchant sites etc. in communication with the network . As such the multi media distribution channels may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . In one implementation the multi media distribution channels may be implemented as a network computing device e.g. a network server in wired and or wireless communication with the network .

The service provider device in one embodiment may be maintained by an online transaction processing provider and or entity in communication with the network . As such the service provider device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware firmware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . In one implementation the service provider device may be implemented as a network computing device e.g. a network server in wired and or wireless communication with the network . As shown in the service provider device includes a service interface application which may be adapted to interact with the client device to facilitate publishing and or sharing multi media presentations over a network.

The service interface application in one embodiment utilizes a collect module a create module and a publish module to collect information create presentations and publish presentations respectively. As described in greater detail herein the modules enable users such as the user to collect diverse types of audio and visual media create rich multi media presentations with real time editing and authoring using media software such as Flash and then share and or publish the rich multi media presentations with other users via the network . In one example the collect create and publish modules may be implemented within a standard web browser for interfacing with the user .

In one implementation the user is able to share multi media presentations with other users via the media channels and or embed multi media presentations directly in webpages of other users. For example the user may provide a unique URL link for the multi media presentation to other users. In another example the user may directly email multi media presentations to multiple recipients and include a message with the email. In still another example the user may provide the source HTML i.e. HyperText Markup Language code to other users and or embed the source HTML code directly into other user s webpages. Still other examples include the ability to publish multi media presentations on a website to sell a particular item or service for purchase. For items and or services a media rich presentation helps users market and sell items and or services which may be valuable for high end or high priced items and or services. Social and or dating sites may utilize these multi media presentations to provide online users with a way to better present themselves to other online users. In various implementations some types of webpages may be presented in a more dynamic manner by utilizing Rich Site Summary RSS feeds since for example a particular user s presentation may be continually changed with new media.

The service provider device in various embodiments may be configured to maintain store and or archive multi media presentations in a database each of which may include information related to one or more users such as the user and one or more multi media channels such as multi media distributions channels . In various examples the multi media presentations may include attributes stored as part thereof and the attributes may be passed to the service provider device as part of a creating publishing and or sharing of the multi media presentations.

The collect module in one embodiment enables the user to collect media objects such as audio photographic images video and music media from various sources such as a PC RSS feeds websites and any other online source via a user interface such as the user interface application . In various implementations the user interface application comprises multiple tabs and or links for the various sources. Once collected the media may be saved and categorized in the database and edited on the system site via the service provider device . Editing may include one or more of sizing rotating overlying moving and stacking various media backward and forward with an overlay or stack. In one example video may be broken up automatically by the service provider device into smaller segments and selected video segments may be combined and or used as desired. Selected media may be placed on a virtual storyboard such as a clipboard on the same screen as the collection of media. Media may be edited either in the collection or in the storyboard in one example. Placing desired media on the storyboard may be accomplished by dragging and dropping in another example. Thus the collect module provides selected media on a storyboard. In another example the collect module provides media on a user s media page i.e. not placed on the storyboard . In still another example uploading media may be delayed until editing is completed.

The create module in one embodiment enables the user to place selected media onto a presentation style board or collage. The service provider device may automatically suggest a story idea to launch the creative process or the user may select a specific style or presentation tool. In one implementation media from the storyboard may be dragged and dropped onto the presentation. Within the presentation there may be multiple styles such as a picture frame a television a billboard etc. Media may be placed within the viewing window of each type of style. Once in the presentation the media may be edited. For example the media may be rotated sized cut out e.g. by selecting the boundaries of an image such as with clicks to designate points along the boundary enabling as coarse or fine a resolution as desired moved forward or backward in relation to adjacent media slid to add or remove spaces within the presentation and edited to add a hotspot e.g. selecting an area of the image for additional information such as adding a link video text etc. . Other editing features may include adding audio to the background adding text and or distorting images. In one aspect the editing may be achieved in real time so that the user may quickly and easily see the results and change them as needed.

The publish module in one embodiment enables the user to share publish and or distribute the presentation when for example the presentation is completed. In one implementation as described herein the presentation may be saved in the database of the service provider device . Once saved the user may share publish and or distribute presentations to any selected channel such as one or more of the multi media channels . Any users on the network having access to the channels or website related to the channels may refresh the view which may automatically load the presentation into that channel and or website for viewing the content of the presentation. As such the presentations may be distributed to various online websites blogs mobile video players and IP TV networks and or on the system site.

These modules may be combined used and or modified to provide the user with different initial choices regarding the type of presentation and features desired for creating the presentation. The choices may be a simple easy to use tool to quickly build presentations with dynamic content from RSS feeds and online albums. Accordingly the user may select a presentation style and then link it to the user s media libraries through RSS feeds that maintain an always on permalink to the content source.

Referring to the method comprises collecting media for a multi media presentation block . In various implementations media such as photographic images audio video music etc. may be collected from a variety of sources including local sources such as a personal computer PC and online sources such as the Internet for use in the media presentation or media piece. For example an online search engine may be accessed and one or more keyword searches may be utilized to search the Internet for various types of media content. In another example additional media may be collected from other sources such as media from a PC which may be selected uploaded and viewed. As such media from different sources may be viewed by selecting corresponding media source tabs from the user interface application . Media may be viewed as individual media items or clustered such that each of the individual media items within the cluster may be viewed. In one aspect the user interface application interfaces with the service interface application via the network to utilize the collect module for collecting media. In another aspect any media collected may be displayed on the client device via the network for viewing by the user in a media collection area of the user interface application block .

Next the method comprises populating a storyboard block . In one implementation the user interface application includes a graphical storyboard which may be populated with collected media from one or more of the media items or a cluster of media items collected from various media sources. For example the graphical storyboard may include one or more images of items and or clustered items collected from the Internet and items uploaded from a PC. In one example media objects or items may automatically populate the storyboard. Further disclosure of automatic media population may be found in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 347 749 which has been previously incorporated by reference herein for all purposes

Optionally one or more of the media objects items may be edited block . In various implementations media positioned on the graphical storyboard may be edited prior to generating the media presentation or media piece and or individual media items in a media cluster may be reordered.

Next the media presentation or media piece may be created block . In one implementation once media objects have been collected and optionally edited the media presentation or media piece may be created by selecting a creation operation of the user interface application . In one aspect the user interface application interfaces with the service interface application via the network to utilize the create module for creating the media presentation or media piece.

In various implementations creating the media presentation or media piece may include selecting and or customizing its style block and viewing the selected and or customized style block . For example presentation styles may include but are not limited to a picture frame a billboard kaleidoscope a street scene landscape etc. Once a style is selected media items from the storyboard may automatically flow into or populate the selected style. Some styles such as kaleidoscope style support movement of media as part of a presentation style and provides various customizable characteristics of movement such as speed of media rotation etc. within the style. In one aspect the customized style may be displayed on the client device via the network for viewing by the user .

Next referring to the selected and or customized style of the media presentation or media piece may be optionally edited block . In various implementations if further editing of media presentation style is desired style editing tools may be provided to the user interface application via the create module . These editing tools may include the ability to preview the media presentation or media piece edit the media presentation or media piece e.g. scale rotate and or move frames directly onto the media presentation or media piece add text and or captions to the media presentation or media piece add audio sound music and or voice over to the media presentation or media piece place a frame and or mask on the media presentation or piece and add background images and or color to the media presentation or media piece. For example a sound feature may provide options such as adding music to particular media or background having the music vary in loudness depending on time and or spatial indicators and having a repeating playlist that repeats particular music and or plays different segments in a random manner.

Next the method comprises providing identifying information block about the media presentation or media piece e.g. a title a storage location and or various types of descriptive information and deciding where to store the media presentation or media piece block . In one implementation the user may identify and or select one or more distribution channels located on an associated server for storage of the media presentation or media piece or choose an alternative storage location in the network .

Next the method comprises publishing sharing and or broadcasting the media presentation or media piece via the network block . In various implementations the media presentation or media piece may be published or distributed to a site accessible via the network for viewing by one or more other network users in communication with the network . For example the media presentation or media piece may be directly emailed block to one or more recipients i.e. other network users along with a message. In another example an associated URL link block for the media presentation or media piece may be given e.g. via email or some type of text message to one or more recipients i.e. other network users for direct access to the media presentation or media piece via the network . In still another example source code block for the media presentation or media piece may be obtained by the user and embedded into a web page managed by the user via the network .

Accordingly in various implementations the user may email the media presentation or media piece to other network users via the network embed the media presentation or media piece in a web page that is accessible via the network and or create a URL permalink of the media presentation or media piece to one or more of the multi media distribution channels in the network .

In one implementation the user interface application and service interface application allow users to compose multi media stories and presentations by laying out media objects such as photographic images video text and audio on a medium such as a stage or storyboard which is displayable within a visual window. In one aspect a multi media story may begin from an unpopulated storyboard. The user may select to view and work with a sample story until the user is ready to begin the media story. Multi media items from various sources may be viewed by selecting source tabs of the user interface application .

Once the user is ready to create a media story the user accesses a collage storyboard. In one aspect the storyboard or stage progressively moves in a first direction such as a left or right horizontal direction and when viewed may appear as a movie adapted to present a linear narrative in time and or space. In another aspect the stage may progressively move in a second direction such as an upward or downward vertical direction. Again this type of movement may present a natural mapping to time space and or narrative. In one example the vertical orientation may represent physical structures that have height and or depth such as buildings structures monuments and or geological strata. In still another aspect the stage may be adapted to progressively move in a plurality of directions and may be presented as real or virtual spaces in two or three dimensions. Furthermore the storyboard or stage may progressively move at different speeds based upon user input for example via the turning speed of a mouse wheel cursor movement along a slide tool or cursor movement to a boundary of the visual window as further described below. Thus the present disclosure provides for multi dimensional and variable speed navigation of the multi media items presented on the collage storyboard.

In various implementations multi media items from various sources may be uploaded from the network or previously collected media items may be used to populate the storyboard by selecting desired multi media items. A multi media item may be repositioned within the storyboard by selecting dragging and dropping the multi media item to another location in the storyboard. Similarly a multi media item may be removed from the storyboard by dragging and dropping the multi media item from the storyboard. In one aspect once multi media items are positioned within the storyboard the media story may be edited. In this regard a rich interface may be presented to users within a predefined screen area or visual window.

In various embodiments the service interface application utilizes a number of innovative techniques to deal with the limited space of the screen area or visual window. For example a first technique utilizes one or more direct attached media specific tools. When selecting any media object on the stage a highlight rectangle appears around the object. Attached to the rectangle around the media object are a number of tools some generic for all media types others specific to the media type. By showing the tools in close proximity to the media object it is easier for users to understand the relationship of the tool to the media object. For each tool an edge may be specified e.g. expressed as a number from 0 3 0 top 1 right 2 bottom and 3 left a position along the edge e.g. expressed as a ratio of edge length and an offset from the edge e.g. expressed as a factor of the tool s size . Whenever updating a position of a tool an absolute position may be calculated or recalculated based on various parameters.

In another example an embodiment utilizes a rotation invariant display of tools. If a user rotates a media object using a rotate tool the associated tools remain fixed to the original object constraint point i.e. they do not rotate thereby making it easier for the user to read the icons . Once a rotation is complete the attached edge is calculated or recalculated based on the perceived edge and if necessary fades the tool out from a previous location to a new location. As such the user may be accustomed to finding certain tools in certain positions relative to a media object irrespective of the media object s rotation.

In another example an embodiment utilizes a slide tool. When working with media that may progressively move in a particular direction user selection and manipulation of individual media objects may become a challenge. Traditional techniques of multiple selection and direct manipulation may break down when dealing with large numbers of media objects or large documents. The slide tool allows the user to perform an action that may be difficult such as insert or remove horizontal space within a collage or story. The user selects a media object to reveal the media specific tools. The slide tool is affixed to an edge of the media object and when grabbed the slide tool selects one or more media objects at or to the other edge of the selected media object and allows side to side sliding during a user action. In one aspect this technique may be utilized for a vertically oriented collage or story which would present the slide tool on an upper edge of the selected media object and allow dragging of layers at or below the selected object.

In another example an embodiment utilizes a drag and drop insertion. The user may drag thumbnails representing media objects from a media tab and drop them onto the stage or storyboard. As the user drags the thumbnail over the stage or storyboard an insertion point indicator is presented to the user showing where an edge of the dropped item may be located during user action such as if the user s mouse is released. If the user s mouse hovers over the left edge of an existing media object on the stage the indicator state switches to an insert mode. If the user releases the mouse while the indicator is in this mode the underlying media object and all media objects to the right of the left edge of that media object will be offset to the right to allow for the dropped media object to fit on the stage without being obscured.

In another example an embodiment utilizes one or more unconstrained animated button icons. Some applications use iconic images to represent actions that the user may perform. As icons become smaller they are difficult to discern and understand. The service interface application uses animation and unbounded icons to convey visual information in one embodiment. In one aspect a text tool icon in an idle state is an A other applications often use a T as the text tool . On rollover the A is revealed to be a window onto a cropped sliding Add Text message which animates to an edge. In another aspect a soundtrack tool may be represented as a musical note but on rollover the notes play and rise outside of a representative button. To create these buttons a designer may designate a static rectangle which represents traditional bounds of the graphic. These bounds may be used by the button to determine the button bounds and scale. Graphic icon content is not restricted to lie within these bounds and the button class is set to not clip its content. By triggering the animation on rollover the design may exceed its bounds while still preserving visual coherence in the idle state.

In another example an embodiment utilizes one or more collapsible tabbed containers. When editing a collage or story a button bar may represent one or more additional editing options. The collapsed bar may comprise a row of buttons although each icon may be presented as a button rather than an icon. When the user selects at least one of the buttons the selected button transforms into a tab and the bar expands horizontally to include the tab content. The user may collapse the bar by selecting a close button in the bar or by selecting the currently open tab.

In another example the user may add one or more hotspots to the media presentation or piece. A hotspot may be identified by a title as a cursor is moved over a designated hotspot area. Activating the hotspot by selecting the hotspot area may link the user to additional information relating to the hotspot item. For example if an automobile is used as a media item within the collage storyboard a hotspot may link the user to additional information relating to the automobile such as price condition and terms or sale. Hotspots may be specific to one part or element of the media item. In this example the user may create a hotspot on the tire which when opened may give the viewer access and or information on the tire where to buy the tire etc. Other hotspots may link the user to music or other audio clips and other media may be uploaded into the collage storyboard from a clipboard or link to sale items posted on the Internet. Once the media piece has been created the media piece may be viewed saved previewed and or published. Once published the user may have options as to the playback. For example the media presentation or piece may play continuously until stopped play only for a specified number of times play only once etc. Further disclosure of hotspots may be found in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 347 638 which has been previously incorporated by reference herein for all purposes.

In another example an embodiment utilizes innovative methods and apparatus for on demand loading of media as further described below with respect to . Once a media presentation has been created and saved the presentation can be edited or viewed which requires loading of the media to a user interface application such as a media player. A media presentation may be represented as a collage document with a plurality of layers. Each layer may include various layer specific attributes including but not limited to a position in the collage document scale visual bounds associated annotations i.e. hotspots and an associated media object or a target media asset which may have further layer specific properties such as playback behaviors. When a client device e.g. client device or a user interface application e.g. a user interface application a media player etc. loads a media presentation e.g. a collage document or story the user interface application first specifies a maximum number of layers per page of the desired collage document and requests the first page of the collage document. The request is made to the source of the collage document and in one example can be made to a service provider device or a distribution channel server via a network a website or within a user device itself if the collage document has been saved to the user device. In the case of the service provider device e.g. a server being the source of the collage document the service provider device returns up to a page worth of layers sorted by position in the collage e.g. a horizontal or a vertical location . The user interface application may load one or more pages of layers from the presentation source and create a list of layers indexed by at least a position within the collage document. Then the user interface application filters the layers down to the currently visible within the visual window of the user interface application. For each layer if the layer hasn t already been loaded or queued for loading the layer is queued for loading.

Referring now to a flow diagram of a method for loading media via a client device is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. As noted above a collage document includes at least one page having a plurality of layers. Each layer is associated with a media object and may further include layer specific attributes such as a position in the collage document scale visual bounds and an associated annotation. As noted above the collage document may flow in a linear two dimensional fashion or may flow in various directions. Thus a layer specific attribute of the position in the collage document can include one of a horizontal position a vertical position a position along a line a position in an area and combinations thereof. The collage document may further comprise identity information including at least one of a title a storage location and a description thus allowing for requests of particular collage documents.

At step a client device provides a maximum number of layers per page of a collage document and loads a first page of the collage document to the client device at step . Specifying the maximum number of layers per page thus allows for control over bandwidth and or processing requirements if the page of layers is being downloaded over a network or when loading the collage document from within the client device. The maximum number of layers per page may be provided manually by a user through a user interface or automatically by the client device such as via a client device processor. In other embodiments the user or the client device can specify manually or automatically a maximum number of layers within a pre determined or initial visual window of the user interface per page of the collage document the visual window of layers per page in combination with a specification of the maximum number of layers per page or alone to further control for bandwidth and or processing requirements when loading a collage document.

After loading the page of layers the client device creates a list of layers of the loaded page at step with each layer indexed by at least a position in the collage document. At step the list of layers is filtered based on at least the position in the collage document and the visual window of the user interface to thereby display visible layers of the loaded page within the visual window.

At step the client device determines if there is more than one page worth of layers in the collage document. If yes the client device loads another page of the collage document as noted by the process loop back to step . If no the client device finishes the loading process of the collage document.

As noted above method is applicable when loading a collage document to the client device from various sources including a server device or a website via a network and within the client device itself when a collage document is stored within a client device memory.

Referring now to a flow diagram is illustrated of a method for loading media from a server device in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. The server device can store a collage document in a database or have access to a database storing the collage document remotely from the server device in one embodiment.

At step the server device receives a request for a collage document the collage document including at least one page having a plurality of layers with each layer being associated with a media object as noted above. Other attributes of a collage document noted above apply in this process as well and will not further described. At step the server device receives a maximum number of layers per page of the collage document from a client device and as noted above in other embodiments may receive a visual window of layers per page alone or in conjunction with the maximum number of layers per page. At step the server device returns a page of the requested collage document. Although the client device may create a list of layers of a loaded page as noted above the server device may create a list of layers of the returned page in one embodiment with each layer indexed by at least a position in the collage document as at step . At step the server device determines if there is more than one page worth of layers in the collage document. If yes the server device returns another page of the collage document as noted by the process loop back to step . If no the server device finishes the returning process of the collage document.

Referring now to in conjunction with a flow diagram of a method for navigating loaded media via a client device is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. As noted above a collage document includes at least one page having a plurality of layers. Each layer is associated with a media object and may further include layer specific attributes such as a position in the collage document scale visual bounds and an associated annotation.

At step a page of layers is loaded onto a client device in a similar manner as described above with respect to . The client device creates a list of layers of the loaded page at step with each layer indexed by at least a position in the collage document. At step the multi media objects of the collage document are navigated by user input via a user interface such as a mouse display and or slide tool e.g. slide tools . The multi media objects may flow in a linear two dimensional fashion or may flow in various directions and the present disclosure allows for multi directional and variable speed navigation of the multi media utilizing the layer specific attributes of the media object such as position in the collage document which can include one of a horizontal position a vertical position a position along a line a position in an area and combinations thereof. At step the list of layers is filtered based on at least the position in the collage document and the visual window of the user interface to thereby display visible layers of the loaded page within the visual window. At step the client device determines if further navigation of the collage document is detected and if yes the client device loops back to step to filter the layers based on the position in the collage document and the visual window of the user interface. It is noted that if there is more than one page worth of layers in the collage document the client device loads another page of the collage document.

As noted above method is applicable when navigating a loaded collage document from various sources including a server device or a website via a network and within the client device itself when a collage document is stored within a client device memory.

Furthermore as noted above the storyboard or stage may progressively move at different speeds based upon user input for example via the turning speed of a mouse wheel cursor movement along a slide tool e.g. slide tools or cursor movement toward a boundary of the visual window e.g. faster movement in the direction of cursor movement as the cursor is moved closer to a visual window boundary or edge . Thus the present disclosure provides for multi dimensional and variable speed navigation of the multi media items presented on the collage storyboard.

In various implementations using the various media creation and publishing tools described herein a user may quickly and easily create media rich presentations and use e.g. display share edit . . . etc. those presentations in numerous ways. Some examples include the ability to publish a presentation on a site to sell a particular item or service. For items or services a media rich presentation may assist the seller with marketing and selling the item or service which may be valuable for high end or high priced items or services. Sellers may be able to cross sell or promote items or services or direct consumers to partner commercial sites using the hotspot feature. Social or dating sites may use these presentations to give its users a meaningful way to present themselves to others. Blogs and personal pages may be more dynamic using RSS feeds since for example a particular user s presentation may be continually changing with new media.

Referring now to a block diagram is illustrated of a computer system suitable for implementing one or more embodiments of the present disclosure including the client device the one or more distribution channels and the service provider device e.g. a server . In various implementations the client device may comprise a personal computing device capable of communicating with the network such as a personal computer laptop cell phone PDA etc. the one or more distribution channels e.g. merchant devices may comprise a network computing device such as a network server and the service provider device may comprise a network computing device such as a network server. Hence it should be appreciated that each of the devices may be implemented at least in part by computer system in a manner as follows.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a personal computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. system memory component e.g. RAM static storage component e.g. ROM disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card display component e.g. CRT or LCD input component e.g. keyboard and cursor control component e.g. mouse or trackball . In one implementation disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component or disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice embodiments of the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. network of such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

In one embodiment a client device for loading media comprises a network interface configured to allow communication between the client device and a server device over a network and a processor configured to provide a maximum number of layers per page of the collage document. The processor is further configured to load a first page of the collage document create a list of layers of the loaded page each layer indexed by at least a position in the collage document and filter the list of layers based on at least the position in the collage document and a visual window of the user interface to thereby display visible layers of the loaded page within the visual window.

In another embodiment a server device for loading media comprises a database for storing a collage document and a network interface configured to allow communication between a client device and the server device over a network. The server device further includes a processor configured to receive a request from the client device for the collage document for download receive a maximum number of layers per page of the collage document and return a page of the requested collage document.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

