---

title: Cell selection or handover in wireless networks
abstract: Network device selection or handover schemes enable higher network capacity based on partially-observable Markov decision processes. Unavailable cell loading information is observed and/or predicted from non-serving base stations and actions are taken to maintain an active base station set or network device candidate data for selection in routing communications of a mobile device in a mobile device cell selection or handover procedure. A reward function is considered in the selection based on various parameters comprising system capacity, handover times, and mobility of a mobile device or mobile station.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09332471&OS=09332471&RS=09332471
owner: TRANSPACIFIC IP MANAGEMENT GROUP LTD.
number: 09332471
owner_city: Taipei
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20140801
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 901 342 filed on Nov. 7 2013 and entitled POMDP BASED CELL SELECTION SCHEMES FOR WIRELESS NETWORKS and also to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 925 568 filed on Jan. 9 2014 and entitled POMDP BASED CELL SELECTION SCHEMES FOR WIRELESS NETWORKS. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 14 450 135 filed Aug. 1 2014 and entitled CELL SELECTION OR HANDOVER IN WIRELESS NETWORKS. The respective entireties of the aforementioned applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to wireless network systems for instance to cell selection or handover in wireless networks e.g. based on a partially observable Markov decision process POMDP .

The use of mobile devices and resulting mobile traffic continues to grow at a fast pace and the trend shows no signs of stopping. To meet the mobile traffic growth and improve the end user experience mechanisms are desired to improve network efficiency system capacity and end user experience by cost effectively leveraging radio network technologies. The routing or transfer of network traffic to a Wi Fi radio and to a cellular radio for example can affect the user experience. For example if the network traffic is routed to a network or network device that is not appropriate for that network traffic it can result in loss of the communication e.g. a dropped call poor service and negatively impacts the user experience.

Various embodiments described herein control a cell selection or handover transfer process e.g. based on a partially observable Markov decision process. According to an embodiment for example a system comprises a memory storing executable components and a processor coupled to the memory that executes or facilitates execution of the executable components. The executable components can comprise a candidate component configured to determine active device data corresponding to candidate network devices to use for transfer of communications of a mobile device based on a selection of a candidate network device from among the candidate network devices. The executable components can comprise an evaluation component configured to generate an evaluation of the candidate network devices of the active device data via a reward function to select the candidate network device from among the candidate network devices. The executable components can further comprise a network parameter component configured to determine a set of parameters of the reward function that comprise a capacity of the candidate network devices to be utilized in the evaluation.

For further examples the executable components can further comprise a transition probability component configured to generate a cell loading state transition probability of the active device data based on a previous network load and a previous network event generated by the candidate network devices. The executable components can further comprise a partially observable markov decision component configured to account for a set of defined uncertainties in the capacity of the candidate network devices.

According to another example embodiment a method can comprise determining by a device comprising a processing device an active network device data set comprising candidate network devices from which a candidate network device is selected for routing of communications of a mobile device and determining a set of parameters of a reward function comprising a capacity of the candidate network devices. The method can further comprise generating an evaluation of the candidate network devices of the active network device data set via the reward function or selecting which of the candidate network devices of the active network device data set to which to communicate network traffic of the mobile device based on the evaluation.

For further examples the method can comprise determining the capacity as a function of a total network bandwidth and respective signal to noise ratios for respective network device to mobile device links. The method can comprise generating a profile of the capacity via the reward function based on a previous load state and a set of previous actions corresponding to the candidate network devices wherein the set of previous actions comprises at least one of an exceeding of a capacity limit or an executing of an off loading event by the candidate network devices to transfer a connection of at least one mobile device connection to a different network device. The method can comprise generating the reward function based on a loading state transition probability for the candidate network devices that comprises a predicted capacity of the candidate network devices based on a previous load state and a set of previous actions.

Additionally the method can comprise determining the set of parameters comprising determining a movement parameter of the mobile device determining the set of parameters of the reward function comprising the capacity and a time cost of communicating the network traffic of the mobile device from a serving network device to the candidate network device of the candidate network devices determining the set of parameters of the reward function comprising the capacity and a mobility of the mobile device or determining the set of parameters of the reward function comprising the capacity a time cost of communicating the network traffic of the mobile device from a serving network device to the candidate network device of the candidate network devices and a mobility of the mobile device.

According to another example embodiment a mobile device can comprise a memory storing executable instructions and a processor coupled to the memory that executes or facilitates execution of the executable instructions to at least determine active device data that is associated with candidate network devices with which to potentially communicate based on a selection of a candidate network device of the candidate network devices generate an evaluation of the candidate network devices of the active device data comprising a network load level and a reward function for decreasing a number of handovers to a different network of the candidate network devices and determine a network device of the candidate network devices of the active device data with which to communicate based on a reward determined by the reward function.

The processor of the mobile device can further execute or facilitate the execution of the executable instructions to route communications to the network device based on a capacity according to a partially observable markov cell selection. The processor can further execute or facilitate the execution of the executable instructions to route communications to the network device based on a handover time according to a partially observable markov cell selection. The processor can further execute or facilitate the execution of the executable instructions to route communications to the network device based on a current reward at a time slot determined by the reward function a predicted reward by the reward function and a movement measure according to a partially observable markov cell selection. The processor can further execute or facilitate the execution of the executable instructions to route communications to the network device based on a movement measure and a handover time according to a partially observable markov cell selection.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the various embodiments may be employed. The disclosed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the techniques described herein can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring certain aspects.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

As utilized herein terms component system interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity hardware software e.g. in execution and or firmware. For example a component can be a processor a process running on a processor an object an executable a program a storage device and or a computer. By way of illustration an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Further these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network e.g. the Internet a local area network a wide area network etc. with other systems via the signal .

As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry the electric or electronic circuitry can be operated by a software application or a firmware application executed by one or more processors the one or more processors can be internal or external to the apparatus and can execute at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include one or more processors therein to execute software and or firmware that confer s at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. In an aspect a component can emulate an electronic component via a virtual machine e.g. within a cloud computing system.

The word exemplary and or demonstrative is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary and or demonstrative is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

Artificial intelligence based systems e.g. utilizing explicitly and or implicitly trained classifiers can be employed in connection with performing inference and or probabilistic determinations and or statistical based determinations as in accordance with one or more aspects of the disclosed subject matter as described herein. For example an artificial intelligence system can be used by scenario identification component to infer a starvation scenario present in a WiFi network in real time. Furthermore the artificial intelligence system can be used by heuristic component to automatically determine heuristic probabilities associated with possible modifications to operating parameters that could alleviate an identified starvation scenario.

As used herein the term infer or inference refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment user and or intent from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Captured data and events can include user data device data environment data data from sensors sensor data application data implicit data explicit data etc. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events for example.

Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks expert systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic and data fusion engines can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the disclosed subject matter.

In addition the disclosed subject matter can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device computer readable carrier or computer readable media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to a magnetic storage device e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strip s an optical disk e.g. compact disk CD a digital video disc DVD a Blu ray Disc BD a smart card a flash memory device e.g. card stick key drive and or a virtual device that emulates a storage device and or any of the above computer readable media.

Aspects of the subject disclosure will now be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings that illustrate different example embodiments. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. However the subject disclosure can embody many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the example embodiments set forth herein.

To guarantee quality of service QoS a feasible cell selection scheme can enable mobile stations MSs to associate with a base station BS that possesses the desired e.g. best channel and network conditions. In high speed downlink packet access HSDPA fast cell selection FCS allows MSs to maintain an active set which comprises the candidate BSs and the MS selects the serving BS SBS with the defined level e.g. strongest pilot signal in the active set. The idea of FCS can be further applied in OFDMA networks for the LTE A standard to facilitate the SBS selection in heterogeneous networks. In this regard the MS can execute cell selection or a cell reselection procedure to find a suitable cell after power on or link loss according to the LTE A system.

In 802.16m either the MS or the SBS can initiate the handover procedure and select the next SBS. The procedure of transferring MS from the connection with its original SBS to the next BS is called handover. Handover helps the MS fulfill its QoS requirements from selecting a better SBS but the procedure of handover also causes extra time delay and communication overheads. To ensure customer satisfaction network providers aim to deliver a high quality service at any location and to facilitate reliable and efficient mobile communications. Consumers can access a growing number of networks using a mobile device and still receive QoS by reducing handover time delay and communication overheads in the network.

To acquire higher network capacity determining a proper network device that operates a communication network for a mobile device handover can be a cell selection problem which is formulated based on a partially observable Markov decision process POMDP . Systems and methods described can operate to observe and predict unavailable cell loading information from non serving base stations and take action for maintaining an active base station set or data for a handover target selection. Various utility functions are designed to consider different factors in the proposed POMDP based cell selection POCS schemes including system capacity handover time and a mobility of a mobile station or device. With the considerations of cell loading as a hidden Markov model and a mobility parameter as a reward function simulation results demonstrate that the proposed POCS schemes can outperform conventional received signal strength based methods for handover processes.

In an embodiment a system for example can comprise a memory storing executable components and a processor that executes or facilitates execution of the executable components. The executable components can comprise for example a device candidate component configured to determine active device data e.g. an active data set that corresponds to candidate network devices such as network devices unavailable or not communicatively coupled to a mobile device but potentially available for a handover process. The candidate network devices can operate to route communications for the mobile device based on a selection of at least one candidate network device for routing communications to a network of the selected candidate network device. An evaluation component can be configured to generate an evaluation of the candidate network device s of the active device data and maintain a list or entries of the candidates in the active device data. The evaluation can include various parameters such as a network load level and a reward function for decreasing a number of routing attempts for routing communications to a different network of the candidate network devices in the handover. A network parameter component can operate to determine the parameters which then parameterize the reward function. The parameters can include for example a capacity of the at least one candidate network device that is determined as a function of a total network bandwidth and respective signal to noise ratios for respective network device to mobile device links at a timeslot. The parameters can also comprise a loading capacity of the at least one candidate network device a time cost of routing the communications to the at least one candidate network device a mobility of the mobile device a current reward a future reward of routing the communications to the at least one candidate network device or any combination thereof. The current reward can be a function of a loading capacity of the at least one candidate network device or a time cost of routing the communications for example while the future reward can be a function of a mobility of the mobile device or a prediction of a movement vector of the mobile device.

Initiating a cell network selection or a handover procedure can comprise load balancing and mobility factors. For example the number of connections of each base station BS is usually unequal as a result of a non uniform population distribution. When a total amount of traffic in a current cell exceeds the capacity limit a hot spot problem an objective of load balancing among the network devices hosting corresponding networks for mobile stations mobile devices is to enhance user throughput by off loading the data transmission to a neighboring cell with a load balancing cell selection procedure for example. In addition due to mobile device movement the received channel quality can decrease when the mobile station MS moves out of a current cell coverage area. An objective of utilizing mobility factors is to minimize the handover frequency while maintaining system capacity via a network device or cell coverage selection from among a set of network devices providing network communication in corresponding coverage areas.

A predictive movement based handover algorithm for decreasing the number of handovers with mobile devices moving among network devices can be utilized in handover selection processes. For example a partially observable Markov decision process POMDP based handoff can observe the signal strengths from each BS or network device according to either measurement or prediction which is utilized to estimate a set one or more of hidden states as the serving BS SBS sequence. In an embodiment a POMDP framework can be modeled from a different perspective to select the next SBS based on traffic load information as a hidden Markov model HMM given that the traffic information of neighboring cell s is not fully known by the MS. Four versions of the POMDP based cell selection POCS schemes are proposed and are associated with different utility functions based on various considerations including system capacity handover time mobility of MS and mobility of the MS with a handover cost. In addition a predictive movement of the MS is designed into the reward calculation. Both cell loading for the HMM and the mobility factors operate as parameters of a reward function used in a cell selection decision. Furthermore simulation results are illustrated to validate that the cell loading and mobility information benefits with the proposed POCS schemes.

The wireless communications environment can include one or more macro cell network devices that broadcast macro network zone coverage areas and one or more micro network devices e.g. Pico network access point Metro network access point or other similar micro network access points deployed within the a heterogeneous wireless communications environment and servicing one or more mobile devices in corresponding network coverage zones. Each wireless communications network e.g. macro access points and micro access points comprises one or more network devices e.g. a set of network devices such as a base station that operates in conjunction with one another in order to process network traffic e.g. handoff operations and coverage for the one or more mobile devices or . The network devices e.g. can be neighbors within one another that overlap or have coverage boundaries alongside or proximate to one another. For example a number micro network devices can overlap or have neighboring coverage with each macro network device respectively. The macro network devices can comprise a set of network devices that are cellular enabled network devices which could provide different network speeds e.g. 2G 3G 4G etc. . In another example the micro access point devices can include a set of network devices that extend network coverage or expand the network environment at the cell edge especially where access would otherwise be limited or unavailable and can include any particular standard or communication protocol such as for WCDMA GSM CDMA2000 TD SCDMA WiMAX for LTE or other solutions.

The communications environment can include one or more management servers that are communicatively coupled to the network devices such as the macro network devices and the micro network devices as a control node for one or more networks. The management servers can operatively control mobile device tracking and paging procedures including retransmissions and handover hand off operations to ensure seamless mobility through various network zones within the network environment . The management servers can control for example the bearer activation deactivation process and choosing a serving gateway for the mobile devices or at an initial attach and at the time of an intra network handover e.g. among the different networks device coverage zones . The management servers can authenticate the mobile devices by interacting with the other devices communicatively coupled thereto and or sets of data servers such as a home subscriber server and the like. The management servers can operate in conjunction with one or more backend packet core components having a processor and memory that can operate to generate and allocate temporary identities to the mobile devices and can terminate signaling protocol layers.

The communication environment can operate to implement techniques for a heterogeneous network environment that provide automatic configuration of neighbor cell relations for example. The managing servers can operate as network devices that can facilitate automatic neighbor relationship operations to configure discovered neighbor relations such that handovers can be performed in combination with neighbor relation establishment without dropping a mobile device connection to the networks of the network environment .

As illustrated each of the one or more micro access points can have a corresponding service area . In addition each of the one or more macro network devices can have a corresponding service or broadcast area . However the wireless communications environment is not limited to this implementation and various other architectures can also be employed. For example the network devices of the communication environment could deploy any number of Wi Fi access points and respective service areas within the wireless communications environment .

A mobile device can contain some or all of the functionality of a system subscriber unit subscriber station mobile station mobile wireless terminal device user equipment device remote station remote terminal access terminal user terminal terminal wireless communication device wireless communication apparatus user agent user device and the like for example. A mobile station or mobile device can be a cellular telephone a cordless telephone a Session Initiation Protocol SIP phone a smart phone a feature phone a wireless local loop WLL station a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop a handheld communication device a handheld computing device a netbook a tablet a satellite radio a data card a wireless modem card and or another processing device for communicating over a wireless system. Each mobile device can be served by the macro cell devices or or the micro cell devices or in which handovers can be controlled by a network data data store a data set a data list neighbor relation table NRT or the like that is managed or maintained by the managing servers a macro network device a micro network device or the other network device for example or each mobile device itself. The mobile devices can respectively broadcast an identifying signature or waveform which can be an identification or fingerprint that the network devices store from the UE devices as a time and frequency reference as well as for identification. Each waveform can be enumerated by the Physical Cell Identity PCI . The network devices of the network environment can communicate broadcasts with UE devices comprising a globally unique cell identifier CGI as well and the network devices of the communication environment can utilize mobile device neighbor relation functions in which mobile devices can decode and report CGI information of neighbor cells to the serving cell upon request.

For example a network device such as a macro cell network device or can maintain network data for each cell. The entries or candidates of the network data can comprise data that the network device utilizes about neighboring networks and network devices. Network device for example can have a complete knowledge of its neighbors such as of network device and . Network devices and can have a complete knowledge an incomplete knowledge or not be aware of all neighbors depending upon inaccuracies in signal propagation maps data if a network has been newly installed or the like.

In an example scenario networks can service mobile devices and through one of the macro network devices or other micro network devices in a heterogeneous network. As a mobile device travels within the wireless communications environment the respective mobile device can move in and out of the coverage area of the associated serving network device. For example as a user is sending receiving communications through their respective mobile device the user might be walking riding in a car riding on a train moving around a densely populated urban area e.g. a large city wherein the movement might cause the mobile device to be moved among various wireless communications networks. In such cases it is beneficial to route the network traffic e.g. handoff from a serving network to a target network in order to continue the communication e.g. avoid dropped calls .

The mobile devices and for example can operate to generate and maintain an active data set such as a candidate device data set that dynamically includes a set of potential network devices for a handover procedure from one network device or SBS to another. The mobile devices operate to select the best SBS from the maintained active candidate device data based on different objective functions at a predefined timeslot. The number of associative BSs or network devices in an active set is no greater than a predetermined threshold M. represents a ratio of handover time cost per timeslot in which 0

In addition at most L mobile devices within the communication environment can be enabled or allowed to connect to a particular network device or BS and each mobile device and can obtain the traffic load information from its active candidate data or data set. However because the mobile device does not maintain an active data set with all the BSs N or network devices in the network environment and only a partial subset of the set of all network devices i.e. M

A difference between POMDP and Markov decision process MDP is that the MDP requires full information of the environment and network devices therein while the POMDP can tolerate or incorporate uncertainties and still gain information from observations or sensed data from the network environment. The POMDP can be described or defined by a tuple S A T R . In a cell selection or network device handover selection scheme implemented by the base station or a mobile device cell loading for each BS or network device or can be quantized into units of the number of mobile stations for its load capacity and utilized to generate an L state Markovian model. Specifically the state s t can represent the number of connections for example of the k th BS for a timeslot t. For ease of representation herein the cell loading state vector can be written as s t s t . . . s t . . . s t where s t S and S 1 . . . L.

Referring now to illustrated is an example non limiting communication network system for routing communications in handover operations for a mobile device and network devices that generate a network coverage area according to aspects described. System can be implemented for example on a mobile device or be distributed throughout a set of self organizing network devices of a heterogeneous network in communication with the mobile device . System comprises at least one memory that can store computer executable components and instructions. System can also include at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one memory . Coupling can include various communications including but not limited to direct communications indirect communications wired communications or wireless communications. The processor can facilitate execution of the computer executable components stored in the at least one memory . The at least one processor can be directly involved in the execution of the computer executable component s .

System can comprise various components that can integrate with one or more mobile devices as an internal component externally as a network device or as a virtual component. The system for example can comprise an evaluation component that can be configured to compare one or more parameters associated with two or more wireless networks and further evaluate parameters that can comprise mobility data related to the mobility of the mobile device e.g. accelerometer data speed data directional movement data and network observed signaling data representing a signaling of the network devices load data representing a load of the set of self organizing network devices and congestion data representing a congestion of the set of self organizing network devices.

According to one embodiment parameters associated with a first network or a first set one or more of network devices can be compared to parameters associated with a second network device or second set of network devices and or a parameters associated with subsequent e.g. third fourth networks. The one or more parameters can include network load information for example or bandwidth utilization of the network e.g. 3G 4G long term evolution and so on . Other parameters can include peak usage times available bandwidth of a network a number of requests received by a network resource as well as other metrics or parameters such as events including a number of attach attempts by other mobile devices within a defined time slot or period of time or a number of dropped connections of one or more mobile devices within the define time slot period .

The evaluation component can also be configured to compare the one or more network parameters associated with the two or more wireless networks with one or more parameters associated with the mobile device . The parameters can also include a movement or mobility parameter of the mobile device . The movement parameter can relate to whether the user equipment device is stationary or moving and if moving a speed at which the device is being moved and or a direction to which the device is being moved. The speed and or direction of the device can be analyzed with respect to a location of a cellular network and or a Wi Fi network according to an implementation. For example if the mobile device is being moved toward a network that network might be favored over a network that the device is being moved away from or not directly headed toward.

The evaluation component is configured to maintain active network device data for example such as a data set a table or a set of active candidate device data that comprises one or more entries and corresponding information on parameters of network devices unavailable to the mobile device or not in communication with the mobile device. The evaluation component can operate to generate an evaluation or a profile that comprises a first network load level and a first set of network parameters or parameter conditions of a first set of network devices. The parameters can comprise a load congestion a capacity level or a number of current mobile devices being managed for communication routing within a given network device that can operate as a potential handover candidate for example. The evaluation or the profile can include a second network load level a second set of network parameter conditions of a second set of network devices of a second network and further include one or more parameter of the mobile device for example.

The evaluation component is further configured to evaluate network parameters or parameter conditions among network devices based on a reward function that determines a benefit of a handover to a particular network device within the active data set or candidate device data of the mobile device. The reward functions can include parameters comprising at least one of a capacity or load capacity a frequency of connection transfers a mobility parameter of the mobile device a current reward e.g. a capacity or load condition and or a time delay involved with the transfer or a predictive future reward.

For example a capacity for a network device base station can be determined as a function of a total network bandwidth and respective signal to noise ratios for respective network device to mobile device links at a timeslot. A connection transfer time can be determined via the evaluation manager as a function of a penalty or delay of a transfer of a connection for the mobile device which can be represented by a timeslot ratio of a timeslot a total network bandwidth and respective signal to noise ratios for respective network device to mobile device links at the timeslot for example. The reward function can also be based on a mobility of the mobile device and a time time length to transfer a mobile device connection which can be determined as a function of a simulated time interval of a continuous movement parameter of the mobile device over a change of time into a set of simulated time intervals. In addition the evaluation component is further configured to evaluate network parameters parameter using a reward function based on a non fixed signal to noise ratio with respect to a mobility parameter of the mobile device. The non fixed signal to noise ratio can be based on a current reward of a transfer of a connection to a network device and a predicted reward. For example the current reward can be a function of a capacity at a timeslot for the transfer of the connection to a particular network device or a time delay of the transfer. The predicted reward can be a function of a path loss at a distance for the transfer of the connection at the timeslot for example.

The system can further comprise a selection manager component that can be configured to determine which radio technology and associated set of network devices should be chosen such that at least a portion of the network traffic of the user equipment also referred to as user traffic is routed to the selected network e.g. by a routing component . The selection manager component can operate for example to make determinations for policy considerations. The determination performed by selection manager component can comply with a network selection policy received from a network device that currently provides a service to the mobile device e.g. a set of source devices . In an implementation complying with the network selection policy can include observing discovery information and selection policies of the serving network e.g. set of serving devices . The discovery information can relate to one or more traffic routing rules established by the serving network.

The routing component can be configured to route one or more portions of the network traffic of the user equipment device to a network devices chosen by the selection component . For example a cellular network might be congested and therefore some of the traffic of the user equipment device can be kept on or routed to a LTE network for example.

The system further comprises an application services and application programming interface manager API . The application services and API manager can operate to manage underlying flow state information information to manage dynamic pricing or billing and integrate proper interfaces to manage micro shift data delivery. The application services and API manager can further provide virtual service portals for new Quality of Experience QOE dependent business models enable analytic and knowledge dashboards to applications on the mobile device and create personalized flow models and policy based services for users businesses and internal optimization tools.

A markov component can be configured to determine based on the evaluation of the evaluation component a network device to route network traffic of the mobile device based on a hidden markov model. The markov component can determine a markovian matrix that can comprise nonnegative real numbers for example representing a probability for a number of connections for the network devices base stations within the communication environment such as network devices and which each generate a communication network.

As stated above the POMDP can be described or defined by the tuple S A T R . In a cell selection or network device handover selection scheme implemented by the base station or a mobile device cell loading for each BS or network device can be quantized into units of the number of mobile stations for its load capacity and utilized to generate an L state Markovian model. Specifically the state s t can represent the number of connections for example of the k th BS for a timeslot t. For ease of representation herein the cell loading state vector can be written as s t s t . . . s t . . . s t where s t S and S 1 . . . L.

The mobile station device for example can operate to maintain an active device data or candidate device data set A where the element of A is the index of a network device or a base station in the active set and A 1 . . . N. The mobile station device can select the SBS e.g. network device or other network device at each timeslot among the BSs in the active set as a t where a t A. The parameter a t is a 1 M vector and it contains all the indexes of the base stations to be included in the active set A to provide active set maintenance. The action is denoted as a vector a t a t a t . Based on the previous cell loading state and the taken actions e.g. handover attempts handover completions dropped connections loading data etc. Trepresents the cell loading state transition probability in which current cell loading state of the th BS only depends on the previous state and historical actions i.e. T s t i s t 1 j P s t i s t 1 j a 1 t 1 where a 1 t 1 denotes actions from time 1 to t 1. The Markovian matrix is composed by a state transition probability of the number of connections for each BS network device and can be known by the mobile station device via the markov component for example. Due to the non uniform population distribution as hot spot problem the Markovian matrix of each BS in the wireless network is considered different.

Because full information or complete and accurate information of cell loading for a network device is not entirely observable by a mobile device a belief state which stands for or represents a statistical probability of the cell loading state can be utilized to represent a state uncertainty. With N network devices or BSs in the network environment the dimensions of belief state Lgrows exponentially as the number of BSs increases which is computationally complex. A network environment can for example comprise the set of network devices operable for routing communications of a mobile device or station that could operate as potential handover candidate s for the mobile device. Thus a sub optimal strategy is considered that each network device or BS keeps track of its cell load and estimates the transition probability separately and can be utilized by reducing a size of belief states to become N i.e. the belief state vector of the kth network device or BS is represented as b s t b s t . . . b s t . . . b s t where b s t stands for the probability of cell loading state s t i. Under N independent cell loading states the belief state comprises sufficient statistical information for the past history. With sufficient statistic for the design of action each network device or BS evolves independently which consequently reduces the complexity to O N . Since each of the BSs contains at most L users e.g. mobile devices as the maximum cell loading the belief state value of cell loading state s t i is denoted as b s t with its value in the interval 0 1 and b s t P s t i 1.

Moreover the parameter O represents the finite set of observations. The mobile device or station can obtain s t where k A from the active set with total M network devices or BSs. However even though cell loading of the BSs is not available the proposed cell selection schemes can make decisions based on the prediction from HMM. The observation o t represents the observed number of connections for the k th BS at timeslot t and o t O where O 1 . . . L. The expression s t i P o t I s 1 t a 1 t 1 represents the likelihood of observation o t from the resulting historical state s 1 t and action a 1 t 1 . Providing that s t is available the observation is described as a Dirac delta function as s t i i s t k A and i . On the other hand if s t is not available the belief is predicted based on the transition model while the observation is described as s t i 1 L k A and i . For example M N stands for the availability of all the cell loading information and the POMDP model becomes equivalent to an MDP model. Based on the transition and observation functions the belief update process can be acquired by Baye s Theorem as 

Furthermore r s t a t is the expected reward of taking the action a t at state s t . Since there are uncertainties of the states the expected reward over the states is derived as . 2 

Consequently the optimal policy to maximum expected reward for the cell selection problem is to select the action as

The network system can further comprise a partially observable markov decision POMD component that is part of or communicatively coupled to the markov component and a transition probability component . The POMD component is configured to account for a set of defined uncertainties in a first network load level and a second network load level of different corresponding network devices for comparison in the evaluation.

As discussed above Trepresents a cell loading state transition probability that is based on a previous cell loading state of a network device and the taken historical actions e.g. handover attempts handover completions dropped connections loading data etc. by the network device in which current cell loading state of the th BS only depends on the previous state and historical actions i.e. T s t i s t 1 j P s t i s t 1 j a 1 t 1 . Because full information or complete and accurate information of cell loading for a network device is not entirely observable by a mobile device a belief state which stands for or represents a statistical probability of the cell loading state can be generated by the POMD component to represent a state uncertainty. Thus the markov component is operable to factor uncertainties and utilize information from observations rather than precise and entire information of the network devices in the communication environment as sensed by a mobile device.

According to the above operations the partially observable markov decision component can be configured to generate a profile of a first network load level and a second network load level based on a corresponding previous load state and a set of corresponding previous actions with respect to time. The previous actions can comprise statistics on events involving the network device exceeding a capacity limit a capacity or loading data of mobile devices having communications being routed on the corresponding network device an off loading event by the first set of network devices and the second set of network devices to transfer a connection of at least one mobile device to a different network device handover attempts handover completions dropped connections time delays for handover etc. for example.

The transition probability component is configured to generate a cell loading state transition probability as a current cell loading state of one or more active network devices of the active network device data maintained by the mobile device or another network device based on a previous network load level at a defined time slot and on a previous network event generated by the at least one active network device. The transition probability component is configured to generate a cell loading state transition probability as a current cell loading state of one or more active network devices of the active network device data maintained by the mobile device or another network device based on a previous network load level at a defined time slot and on a previous network event generated by the at least one active network device. As discussed above with N network devices or BSs in the network environment the dimension of belief state L grows exponentially as the number of BSs increases which is computationally complex. Thus a size of belief states is reduced to become N i.e. the belief state vector of the kth network device or BS is represented as b s t b s t . . . b s t . . . b s t where b s t stands for the probability of cell loading state s t i. Under N independent cell loading states the belief state comprises sufficient statistical information for the past history. With sufficient statistic for the design of action each network device or BS evolves independently which consequently reduces the complexity to O N . Since each of the BSs contains at most L users e.g. mobile devices as the maximum cell loading the belief state value of cell loading state s t i is denoted as b s t with its value in the interval 0 1 and b s t P s t i 1.

Referring to illustrated is an aspect of a non limiting communication network system for routing communications in handover operations for a mobile device and network devices that generate a network coverage area according to aspects described. Aspects and components are similar to the communication network environments or systems described above. The system further comprises a candidate component and a network parameter component .

The candidate component can be configured to determine active device data comprising corresponding candidate network devices for potentially routing communications for a mobile device based on a selection of at least one candidate network device. The active device data or data set can be dynamically maintained as one or more network devices are sensed and populated within the data for tracking or observation. The data can include information that corresponds to each network device that is monitored via the evaluation component discussed in detail supra.

The network parameter component can operate to detect different parameters in relation to each network device within the active device data. For example the network parameter component can be configured to determine parameters of the reward function comprising a capacity of the at least one candidate network device. The capacity can be determined as a function of a total network bandwidth and respective signal to noise ratios for respective network device to mobile device links at a timeslot. The network parameter component can be configured to determine a set of parameters of the reward function that comprise a loading capacity of the at least one candidate network device such as an amount of data or connection number that can be established based on a current state or a time slot of the network device. The network parameter component can be configured to determine the set of parameters of the reward function comprising a time cost of routing the communications to the at least one candidate network device or of a handover operation in addition to a mobility direction acceleration speed etc. of the mobile device relative to a neighboring cell network or cell network device coverage area for example. The network parameter component can also be configured to determine a set of parameters of the reward function that comprise a current reward and a future reward of routing the communications to the at least one candidate network device. The current reward for example can be a function of a loading capacity of the at least one candidate network device or a time cost of routing the communications and the future reward can be a function of a mobility of the mobile device or a prediction based on the mobility for a handover procedure. For example whether a handover will be required network devices available based on the mobility need for a specific network or data amount could be factors involved in the prediction.

In an aspect four POMDP based cell selection POCS schemes can be implemented with the above referenced components with different reward functions in equation 3 above based on capacity handover frequency and mobility of the mobile device or MS. In a capacity based POCS C POCS scheme for example a higher throughput can be generated if users transmit more data within a fixed time interval. Assuming that there is a larger amount of data greater than capacity to be transmitted the reward function of proposed capacity based POCS C POCS scheme is defined to achieve high system capacity 

In another aspect a handover based POCS H POCS scheme utilizes a handover delay or a time of transmission delay caused by a handover process in which the transmission interrupt can influence the QoS of network communication for a mobile device. The handover based POCS H POCS scheme processes can effectively reduce the handover time experienced in which the reward of the H POCS scheme for non serving BSs can be defined as

In another aspect a mobility based POCS M POCS scheme or processes can be utilized to consider a mobility parameter of the mobile device station in which the received SNR is not be fixed when the MS is moving fast or past a predetermined threshold of speed e.g. when driving a car traveling by train or the like in the network. Therefore not only the current reward such as a capacity at a timeslot t but also a future reward predicted by the mobility of the mobile device can be taken into consideration in the reward function.

In an embodiment a system comprises a memory storing executable components and a processor coupled to the memory that executes or facilitates execution of the executable components. The executable components can comprise a candidate component configured to determine active device data corresponding to candidate network devices e.g. network device or other network device having corresponding service areas to use for transfer of communications of a mobile device based on a selection of a candidate network device from among the candidate network devices. The executable components can comprise an evaluation component configured to generate an evaluation of the candidate network devices of the active device data via a reward function to select the candidate network device from among the candidate network devices. The executable components can further comprise a network parameter component configured to determine a set of parameters of the reward function that comprise a capacity of the candidate network devices to be utilized in the evaluation.

The network parameter component can further be configured to determine the set of parameters of the reward function comprising the capacity as a function of a total network bandwidth and respective signal to noise ratios for network device to mobile device links of the candidate network devices. The set of parameters of the reward function can comprise a time cost of respectively routing the communications to the candidate network devices a mobility of the mobile device a time cost of respectively routing the communications to the candidate network devices and a mobility of the mobile device or a signal to noise ratio or a signal strength of the candidate network devices.

The evaluation component can be further configured to evaluate the set of parameters. In this regard the evaluation component can be further configured to evaluate the set of parameters using the reward function based on at least one of the capacity a frequency of connection transfers or a mobility parameter of the mobile device. Alternatively the evaluation component can be further configured to evaluate the set of parameters using the reward function based on a connection transfer time that is a penalty of at least one of a transfer of a connection of the mobile device a total network bandwidth or respective signal to noise ratios for network device to mobile device links. The evaluation component can be further configured to evaluate the set of parameters using the reward function based on a non fixed signal to noise ratio for a mobility of the mobile device. The non fixed signal to noise ratio can be a function of a current reward of a transfer of a connection to the candidate network devices and a predicted reward. The current reward can be a function of the capacity at a timeslot for the transfer of the connection and the predicted reward can be another function of a path loss at a distance for the transfer of the connection at the timeslot.

For another example the evaluation component can be configured to evaluate the set of parameters using the reward function based on a mobility of the mobile device and a time of a transfer of a connection that is determined as a function of a simulated time interval of a continuous movement parameter of the mobile device over a defined change in time into a set of simulated time intervals a penalty of the transfer of the connection of the mobile device a total network bandwidth and respective signal to noise ratios for respective network device to mobile device links.

The executable components can further comprise a transition probability component configured to generate a cell loading state transition probability of the active device data based on a previous network load and a previous network event generated by the candidate network devices.

The executable components can further comprise a partially observable markov decision component configured to account for a set of defined uncertainties in the capacity of the candidate network devices. In this regard the partially observable markov decision component can be configured to generate a profile of the capacity based on a corresponding previous load state and a set of corresponding previous actions that comprise at least one of exceeding a capacity limit or an off loading event by the candidate network devices to transfer a connection of the mobile device to the selected candidate network device.

where d t 1 and d t are the distances of these two consecutive observation samples and represents how fast the correlation is decayed with a distance. Based on equation 7 when d t 1 d t the signal variance demonstrates that the fading effect between n t 1 and n t are strongly correlated as d t 1 and d t of two observation samples that are close to each other. As a result the path loss model for two consecutive points can be derived from equation 6 as

The objective of M POCS scheme is to calculate the reward in equation 4 is based on the prediction of the mobile device s movement. In p t denotes the position of the mobile device station MS at timeslot t and p t represents the position of the MS at the 1 th simulated time interval after p t . t is the predefined length of a timeslot. Assuming that the referenced distance d 0 and the referenced path loss PL d 0 are acquired as the empirical values while PL d t 1 and PL d t are also obtainable at time instants t 1 and t. From equation 8 the distances d t 1 and d t can be acquired with the known values of d 0 and PL d 0 . Assuming that the velocity and moving direction from p t to p t 1 are the same as those from p t 1 to p t i.e. v t v t 1 and t t 1 the moving distance of the mobile device is also the same as d t d t 1 v t 1 t. By the law of cosines t 1 in is calculated based on d t 1 d t and d t 1 . Therefore based on t 1 d t 1 d t 1 the following method illustrated in can be utilized to predict the expected capacity from p t to p t 1 .

At predict the SNR The distance from the MS s position p t to the k th BS denoted as d t is obtained by 

Since the path loss from the k th BS to p t as PL d t can be calculated in equation 8 by d t d 0 and PL d 0 the mobile device can therefore calculate a predicted SNR for the k th BS to MS link at the 1 th simulated timeslot after p t i.e. the value of

At predict the reward After obtaining the predicted SNR from the k th BS the future reward considering MS s movement is calculated as

After calculating the predicted rewards of all the BSs the mobile device can choose the BS which has the maximum reward to become its SBS for the next timeslot.

In a mobility and handover based POCS MH POCS scheme a handoff can occur based on the mobile device mobility parameters and a time delay for handover with respect to a network device. The MH POCS scheme considers both the mobility of MS and the handover time cost. The reward function of a nonserving BS is calculated by multiplying 1 a t with equation 9 as

While the methods described within this disclosure are illustrated in and described herein as a series of acts or events it will be appreciated that the illustrated ordering of such acts or events are not to be interpreted in a limiting sense. For example some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts or events apart from those illustrated and or described herein. In addition not all illustrated acts may be required to implement one or more aspects or embodiments of the description herein. Further one or more of the acts depicted herein may be carried out in one or more separate acts and or phases. Reference may be made to the figures described above for ease of description. However the methods are not limited to any particular embodiment or example provided within this disclosure and can be applied to any of the systems disclosed herein.

At the method comprises determining which of the candidate network devices of the active network device data set to route network traffic of the mobile device based on a hidden markov modeling process for a network connection transfer of the mobile device. The hidden markov model for example can include a statistical Markov model in which the network environment being modeled is assumed to be a Markov process with unobserved hidden states. The determining can be based for example on the hidden markov modeling process that comprises selecting a candidate network device for the network connection transfer with a partially observable markov decision process. A stochastic model such as with a partially observable markov decision process models a process where the state depends on previous states in a non deterministic way. A stochastic process has the Markov property if the conditional probability distribution of future states of the process conditional on both past and present values depends only upon the present state that is given the present the future does not depend on the past. Generally this assumption enables reasoning and computation with the model that would otherwise be intractable. The hidden markov modeling process can comprise a partially observable markov decision process that generates a profile of the network load level and the set of parameter conditions for the candidate network devices based on a previous load state at a time slot and a set of previous actions corresponding to the candidate network devices. In one example the set of previous actions comprises at least one of exceeding a capacity limit or executing an off loading event by the candidate network devices to transfer a connection of at least one mobile device connection to a different network device. The set of parameter conditions comprises at least one of a signal to noise ratio or a signal strength. Additionally a reward function can based on at least one of a capacity a time of the network connection transfer or a mobility of the mobile device of the candidate network devices with the set of parameter conditions.

Referring now to illustrated is an example non limiting method according to an aspect. At determine active device data is determined that comprises corresponding candidate network device data to route communications for a mobile device based on a selection of at least one candidate network device for a network of the candidate network devices. At an evaluation component configured to generate an evaluation of the candidate network devices of the active device data that comprises a reward function for decreasing a number of routing attempts for routing communications to a different network of the candidate network devices. Alternatively or additionally the active device data can include a network load level for a device or the devices of the network environment.

At a network parameter component is configured to determine parameters of the reward function comprising a capacity of the at least one candidate network device that is determined as a function of a total network bandwidth and respective signal to noise ratios for respective network device to mobile device links at a timeslot. The parameters can operate to parameterize the reward function and can further comprise a time cost of routing the communications to the at least one candidate network device a mobility of the mobile device a loading capacity of the at least one candidate network device a current reward a future reward of routing the communications to the at least one candidate network device and combinations thereof. The current reward for example can include a function of the loading capacity of the at least one candidate network device or a time cost of routing the communications and the future reward can include a function of a mobility of the mobile device.

Performance evaluation of the proposed schemes can be evaluated via simulations. For example simulation parameters are illustrated in Table 1 below.

The simulation parameters of a path loss model used in equation 6 adopts the model parameters of a terrain type. The relationship between shadowing effect and the distance is simulated. In scenario 1 an mobile station MS moves at a constant speed v 12 m s crossing several cell edges or network coverage area boundaries while in scenario 2 a random walk model is adopted for the MS with velocity between 9 m s and 15 m s. To avoid the ping pong effect of switching back and forth between network devices at coverage area boundaries an RSS based scheme selects the new SBS when its received signal strength RSS is greater than the original SBS with a hysteresis threshold . Two RSS based schemes are simulated based on different settings of as follows. The parameter of RSS f is fixed and equal to 3 dB while of RSS v varies along with the time cost of handover. When the time cost of handover increases is augmented in order to not spend too much time on handover process. The following equation is used to establish the relationship between and log 1 1 log 1 . 10 

The left hand side of equality in equation 10 defines the capacity of connecting to the original SBS while the right hand side represents the capacity of connecting to a new SBS. Since there are three unknown parameters in 10 3 dB when 0.3 is defined to calculate the corresponding SNR value as . To obtain the relationships of with different equation 10 would be reformulated as

RSS v and RSS f are the conventional schemes without cell loading information to serve as the performance benchmarks compared to the proposed schemes discussed above.

Referring now to illustrated is another example non limiting method according to an aspect. At the method can comprise determining by a device comprising a processing device an active network device data set comprising candidate network devices from which a candidate network device is selected for routing of communications of a mobile device. At the method can comprise determining a set of parameters of a reward function comprising a capacity of the candidate network devices. At the method can comprise generating an evaluation of the candidate network devices of the active network device data set via the reward function. At the method can comprise selecting which of the candidate network devices of the active network device data set to which to communicate network traffic of the mobile device based on the evaluation.

In various embodiments the method can comprise various optional operations such as determining the set of parameters by determining a movement parameter of the mobile device. For another example the capacity can be determined as a function of a total network bandwidth and respective signal to noise ratios for respective network device to mobile device links. In addition the method can comprise generating a profile of the capacity via the reward function based on a previous load state and a set of previous actions corresponding to the candidate network devices wherein the set of previous actions comprises at least one of an exceeding of a capacity limit or an executing of an off loading event by the candidate network devices to transfer a connection of at least one mobile device connection to a different network device.

The method can further comprise generating the reward function based on a loading state transition probability for the candidate network devices that comprises a predicted capacity of the candidate network devices based on a previous load state and a set of previous actions. Optionally the reward function can be determined based on at least one of the capacity a time amount of a network connection transfer or a mobility of the mobile device of the candidate network devices with the set of parameters.

The method can further comprise determining the set of parameters of the reward function comprising the capacity and a time cost of communicating the network traffic of the mobile device from a serving network device to the candidate network device of the candidate network devices. As another option the set of parameters can comprise the capacity and a mobility of the mobile device. As yet another non limiting example the method can further comprise determining the set of parameters of the reward function comprising the capacity a time cost of communicating the network traffic of the mobile device from a serving network device to the candidate network device of the candidate network devices and a mobility of the mobile device.

Referring now to illustrated is another example non limiting mobile device according to an aspect. The mobile device can comprise a memory storing executable instructions and a processor coupled to the memory . The processor can execute or facilitate execution of the executable instructions to at least determine active device data that is associated with candidate network devices with which to potentially communicate based on a selection of a candidate network device of the candidate network devices. The processor can execute or facilitate execution of the executable instructions to at least generate an evaluation of the candidate network devices of the active device data comprising a network load level and a reward function for decreasing a number of handovers to a different network of the candidate network devices. The processor can execute or facilitate execution of the executable instructions to at least determine a network device of the candidate network devices of the active device data with which to communicate based on a reward determined by the reward function.

In various embodiments the processor can execute or facilitate execution of the executable instructions to perform various optional operations such as routing communications to the network device based on a capacity according to a partially observable markov cell selection. As an option the processor can execute or facilitate execution of the executable instructions to route communications to the network device based on a handover time according to a partially observable markov cell selection. As another option the processor can execute or facilitate execution of the executable instructions to route communications to the network device based on a current reward at a time slot determined by the reward function a predicted reward by the reward function and a movement measure according to a partially observable markov cell selection. As yet another option the processor can execute or facilitate execution of the executable instructions to route communications to the network device based on a movement measure and a handover time according to a partially observable markov cell selection.

In an example embodiment the network load level can comprise an observed number of connections at a time slot respectively for the candidate network devices and a hidden markov process selects the network device of the network devices according to the reward by determining a likelihood of the observed number of connections from a historical network load level and a set of corresponding previous actions that comprise at least one of a capacity limit being exceeded or an off loading event being respectively initiated for the candidate network devices.

Because scenario 1 considers a straight line movement where the trajectory of the MS is predictable as the MS moves in the same direction with a fixed velocity it is shown in the left subplot of that MH POCS and M POCS algorithms can provide a higher capacity performance than the other schemes. H POCS and C POCS schemes both outperform conventional RSS based methods and thus demonstrate the effectiveness of HMM for cell loading under a regular movement case.

Moreover shows scenario 2 where the MS s trajectory is no longer a line with fixed velocity due to its random walk behaviors. In the left subplot of cell loading information has a significant impact on capacity when the time cost of handover is small e.g. all POCS schemes outperform the RSS based methods. On the other hand with the consideration of handover time cost both the H POCS and MH POCS schemes can outperform the other methods especially under larger time cost of a handover. Under the irregular movement case in scenario 2 joint considerations of cell loading and handover cost are utilized in the reward function design to achieve higher capacity such as the proposed MH POCS scheme.

The right subplots of illustrate the result of a handover probability under different time costs of a handover. Since C POCS M POCS and RSS f do not consider the impact of different handover time costs their handover probabilities are not influenced by the time cost of handover. The MPOCS scheme predicts the future reward and the tendency of capacity variations results in the highest handover probability. Moreover with the consideration of handover time cost the handover probabilities of H POCS MH POCS and RSS v methods decrease as the time cost of handover rises. This result is considered reasonable since higher handover cost which penalizes the capacity makes the MS reluctant to perform handover. A crossover point at 300 ms exists between the RSS v and RSS f methods due to the derivation of from equation 11 above.

The effect on the number of SBS candidates in the active set M is also simulated in both scenarios. To validate the gain of cell loading information to this cell selection problem an MDP case M N 20 is considered the upper bound of all the POCS schemes. The cost function of this upper bound is taken to be the same as MH POCS scheme in 10 which outperforms all other cases in the simulation. The case M 1 indicates that only one BS is in the active set and selected as the SBS. It is intuitive to observe worse performance in this case compared to the cases with larger M values since the cell loading from other BSs can only be predicted based on HMM. The case with M 3 in a regular cell deployment can provide satisfactory performance since at most three BSs are located around the same distances to MS. This case also validates the need of the active set design for the cell selection schemes compared to the case with M 1. Moreover it can be observed in both that the cases with M 3 and 19 result in similar performance which demonstrates that the number of active set can be chosen as M 3 with the consideration of tradeoff between computational complexity and capacity performance.

The POMDP based cell selection POCS methods are thus designed to consider both cell loading and mobility to achieve higher network capacity. Four versions of POCS schemes have been proposed including the C POCS HPOCS M POCS and MH POCS algorithms which consider capacity handover time mobility of the mobile device and mobility of MS with handover time respectively. Based on the simulation results it can be observed that MH POCS scheme can outperform the other methods while M POCS scheme achieves similar performance under linear MS movement. Compared to conventional RSS based schemes higher system capacity can be achieved by the C POCS method. Moreover with slight degradation on capacity performance H POCS scheme decreases handover probability which can effectively alleviate the ping pong effect. It can also be observed from simulation results that a small number of BSs in the active set e.g. M 3 can achieve satisfactory performance for the cell selection problem.

Next it is illustrated how to apply the various POCS embodiments described herein for cell selection and handover procedures in LTE A systems. In the 3GPP terminology cell selection and handover are two distinct procedures. Cell selection which is initiated from the MS takes place when the MS is in its idle mode and the MS will decide on which BS to camp. In other words either cell selection or re selection will occur as long as the MS is idle and moves from cell to cell. In this section we will firstly explain the implementation of proposed POCS scheme for cell selection and re selection in LTE A networks. On the other hand handover takes place when the MS is in active mode and moves from cell to cell. The network decides to which BS the UE will switch so as to provide seamless service for the MS. An embodiment of POMDP based handover for LTE A system is also described nicknamed POH in the following subsections.

With regard to cell selection according to LTE A systems the MS will execute cell selection or cell re selection procedure to find a suitable cell after power on or link loss. Therefore the proposed POCS embodiments which measure SNR and observe cell loading information can be implemented at the MS side of the LTE A network in order to provide a feasible decision for cell selection or re selection. With some adjustments on frame structure the POCS embodiments that utilize MS s mobility and handover cost can also be implemented as cell selection procedures for an LTE A system.

With regard to handover handover in LTE A system is a network control mechanism. Measurements are made and reported by the MS to the network which will then select the target cell for the MS. The MS measures reference signals RS of neighbor BSs for both SNR calculation and mobility prediction in the POH embodiments. Two types of measurement reports are adopted in the LTE A system as follows. The MS can periodically report the measured information for SNR calculation and mobility prediction based on predefined timer. On the other hand the serving BS sends measurement control messages to the MS in order to trigger the measurement report sending from the MS. Note that the following threshold comparison can be included at the first stage of proposed POCS POH scheme in order to avoid unnecessary decisions when signal quality is good enough. The POH embodiment will be initiated if the serving BS found the reported reference signal receive power RSRP from MS dropped below a threshold T e.g. 

Qis the RSRP of serving BS and Q is the offset to avoid a ping pong effect. Afterwards the network decides if the MS is to handover to other cells based on 3 and negotiates with the neighbor BSs. The cell loading information is exchanged between BSs through an X2 interface which is defined in LTE A networks. Providing that the cell loading information is exchanged between BSs in a current timeslot this information is updated whereas the initial state of HMM is reset. On the other hand if cell loading of a neighbor BS is not exchanged in the current timeslot this information can be predicted based on the HMM. Therefore the cell loading information is maintained by the BS and can be updated based on the HMM by adopting the presently described POH embodiment. According to the reported RSRP from the MS the network can decide the next target BS for the MS as formulated in 3 .

In an embodiment a system in a wireless network environment comprises a memory storing executable components and a processor communicatively coupled to the memory that executes or facilitates execution of the executable components. The executable components can comprise a candidate component configured to determine active device data corresponding to a first set of network devices and a second set of network devices to use for transfer of communications of a mobile device based on a selection of a network device from among the first set of network devices and the second set of network devices . the first set of network devices and the second set of network devices can have coverage and respectively. The executable components can comprise an evaluation component configured to generate an evaluation via a reward function to perform the transfer of the communications of the mobile device in a handover process. The executable components can further comprise a network parameter component configured to determine a set of parameters for the reward function comprising a first network load level and a second network load level based on a current capacity that comprises a current number of connections for the first set of network devices and the second set of network devices .

Various embodiments of the network parameter component can include different options. For instance the network parameter component can be further configured to determine the first network load level and the second network load level based on a network device loading state transition probability determined from a corresponding previous load state and a set of corresponding previous network device actions of the first set of network devices and the second set of network devices .

Various embodiments of the evaluation component can include different options as well. For example the evaluation component can be further configured to evaluate a first set of network parameter conditions of the first set of network devices and a second set of network parameter conditions of the second set of network devices by the reward function based on a mobility parameter of the mobile device and at least one of a network device capacity and a frequency of connection transfers. As another example the evaluation component can be further configured to evaluate a first set of network parameter conditions of the first set of network devices and a second set of network parameter conditions of the second set of network devices via the reward function that respectively comprises a capacity that is a function of a total network bandwidth and respective signal to noise ratios for network device to mobile device of the first set of network devices and the second set of network devices .

The evaluation component can be further configured to evaluate a first set of network parameter conditions of the first set of network devices and a second set of network parameter conditions of the second set of network devices via the reward function that respectively comprises a connection transfer time that is determined as a function of a penalty of a transfer of a connection of the mobile device that is represented by a timeslot ratio of a timeslot a total network bandwidth and respective signal to noise ratios for network device to mobile device connections.

As yet another example the evaluation component can be further configured to evaluate a first set of network parameter conditions of the first set of network devices and a second set of network parameter conditions of the second set of network devices via the reward function comprising a mobility of the mobile device and a time of a transfer of a connection that is determined as a function of a simulated time interval of a continuous movement parameter of the mobile device over a change of time in a set of simulated time intervals a penalty of the transfer of the connection of the mobile device that is represented by a timeslot ratio of a timeslot a total network bandwidth and respective signal to noise ratios for respective network device to mobile device connections.

Alternatively the evaluation component can be further configured to evaluate a first set of network parameter conditions of the first set of network devices and a second set of network parameter conditions of the second set of network devices via the reward function comprising a non fixed signal to noise ratio that is based on a current reward of a transfer of a connection to the first set of network devices or the second set of network devices and a predicted reward. The current reward can be a function of a capacity at a timeslot for the transfer of the connection and the predicted reward can be a function of a path loss estimated at a distance for the transfer of the connection at the timeslot.

The executable components can further comprise a reference component configured to determine a reference signal for the first set of network devices and the second set of network devices and generate a determination of whether a reported reference signal satisfies a threshold condition to facilitate another handover process among the first set of network devices and the second set of network devices .

The executable components can further comprise a markov component configured to determine based on the evaluation the network device of the first set of network devices and the second set of network devices to use to route network traffic from the mobile device based on the reward function being determined from a hidden markov model. In this regard the reference signal can comprise a signal to noise ratio and a mobility prediction of the mobile device and the threshold condition can be a function of a minimum receive signal of the first set of network devices and the second set of network devices . The markov component can also be a partially observable markov decision component configured to account for a set of defined uncertainties in the first network load level and the second network load level.

The executable components can further comprise a transition probability component configured to generate a network device loading state transition probability based on a set of previous network device load states at a defined time slot and a set of previous network device actions respectively associated with the first set of network devices and the second set of network devices .

Referring now to illustrated is another example non limiting method according to an aspect. At the method can comprise determining by a device comprising a processing device a reference signal of a set of candidate network devices. The method can further comprise at generating a determination of whether a reported reference signal receive power satisfies a threshold condition. In addition in response to the reported reference signal receive power satisfying the threshold condition the method can comprise at determining a set of active device data associated with the set of candidate network devices to route network communications of a mobile device to a network device of the set of candidate network devices and also in response to the reported reference signal receive power satisfying the threshold condition at routing the network communications of the mobile device to the network device based on an evaluation of the set of candidate network devices via a reward function derived from a hidden markov model.

The hidden markov model can be a function of a predicted network device load and an active network device load corresponding to the set of candidate network devices of the set of active device data. In addition the method can further comprise determining the reward function based on at least one of a capacity a time of a network connection transfer or a mobility of the mobile device of the set of candidate network devices.

The method can also comprise generating a signal to noise ratio and a mobility prediction derived from the reference signal of the set of candidate network devices. The method can further comprise communicating the signal to noise ratio and the mobility prediction derived from the reference signal of the set of candidate network devices based on a predefined period of time.

Alternatively the method can comprise communicating the signal to noise ratio and the mobility prediction derived from the reference signal of the set of candidate network devices in response to a measurement control message.

The method can also optionally comprise generating a profile of an active network load for the set of candidate network devices via a partially observable markov decision process of the hidden markov model that is based on a previous load state at a time slot and a set of previous actions of the set of candidate network devices. The set of previous actions can comprise at least one of exceeding a capacity limit or executing an off loading event by the set of candidate network devices to transfer a connection of at least one mobile device connection to a different network device.

The method can further comprise generating another determination of whether candidate network devices of the set of candidate network devices have exchanged network device load data.

The method can further comprise generating the hidden markov model as a function of a predicted network device load that is generated in response to the determination indicating that the set of candidate network devices have not exchanged network device load data wherein the predicted network device load is a function of a probability of a network device loading state based on a previous load state at a time slot and a set of previous actions of the set of candidate network devices.

Referring now to illustrated is another example non limiting mobile device according to an aspect. The mobile device can comprise a memory storing executable instructions and a processor coupled to the memory . The processor can execute or facilitate execution of the executable instructions to at least at determine a reference signal of a set of candidate network devices and at receive a determination of whether a reported reference signal receive power satisfies a threshold condition. In addition in response to the reported reference signal receive power satisfying the threshold condition the processor can execute or facilitate execution of the executable instructions to at determine active device data comprising candidate network devices for a potential handover to communicate via a set of network devices of a network at generate an evaluation of the candidate network devices of the active device data comprising a network load and a reward function for decreasing a number of handovers to a different network of the candidate network devices and at determine a network device of the candidate network devices of the active device data to route network communications of the network based on a reward determined by the reward function and the network load.

Various embodiments present additional embodiments for the mobile device . For instance the processor can execute or facilitate execution of the executable instructions to route the network communications to the network device based on a capacity according to a partially observable markov cell selection of a hidden markov process that selects the network device according to the reward and the network load. Further the processor can execute or facilitate execution of the executable instructions to route the network communications to the network device based on a handover time according to a partially observable markov cell selection.

As another alternative the network communications can be routed to the network device based on a current reward at a time slot determined and a predicted reward via the reward function and a movement measure of the mobile device according to a partially observable markov cell selection. Or instead the network communications can be routed to the network device based on a movement measure and a handover time according to a partially observable markov cell selection. For other example embodiments the network load can comprise an observed number of connections at a time slot respectively for the candidate network devices and a hidden markov process can select the network device according to the reward and the network load using a likelihood of the observed number of connections from a historical network load level and a set of corresponding previous actions that comprise at least one of exceeding a capacity limit or respective off loading events for the candidate network devices.

By way of further description with respect to one or more non limiting ways to facilitate network traffic routing selection is a schematic example wireless environment that can operate in accordance with aspects described herein. In particular example wireless environment illustrates a set of wireless network macro cells. Three coverage macro cells and include the illustrative wireless environment however it is noted that wireless cellular network deployments can encompass any number of macro cells. Coverage macro cells and are illustrated as hexagons however coverage cells can adopt other geometries generally dictated by a deployment configuration or floor plan geographic areas to be covered and so on. Each macro cell and is sectorized in a 2 3 configuration in which each macro cell includes three sectors demarcated with dashed lines in . It is noted that other sectorizations are possible and aspects or features of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited regardless of type of sectorization. Macro cells and are served respectively through base stations and . Any two BSs can be considered a BS site pair. It is noted that radio component s are functionally coupled through links such as cables e.g. RF and microwave coaxial lines ports switches connectors and the like to a set of one or more antennas that transmit and receive wireless signals not illustrated . It is noted that a radio network controller not shown which can be a part of mobile network platform s and set of base stations e.g. and that serve a set of macro cells electronic circuitry or components associated with the base stations in the set of base stations a set of respective wireless links e.g. links and operated in accordance to a radio technology through the base stations form a macro radio access network. It is further noted that based on network features the radio controller can be distributed among the set of base stations or associated radio equipment. In an aspect for universal mobile telecommunication system based networks wireless links and embody a Uu interface universal mobile telecommunication system Air Interface .

Mobile network platform s facilitates circuit switched based e.g. voice and data and packet switched e.g. Internet protocol frame relay or asynchronous transfer mode traffic and signaling generation as well as delivery and reception for networked telecommunication in accordance with various radio technologies for disparate markets. Telecommunication is based at least in part on standardized protocols for communication determined by a radio technology utilized for communication. In addition telecommunication can exploit various frequency bands or carriers which include any electromagnetic frequency bands licensed by the service provider network e.g. personal communication services advanced wireless services general wireless communications service and so forth and any unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication e.g. the 2.4 GHz industrial medical and scientific band or one or more of the 5 GHz set of bands . In addition mobile network platform s can control and manage base stations and and radio component s associated thereof in disparate macro cells and by way of for example a wireless network management component e.g. radio network controller s cellular gateway node s etc. . Moreover wireless network platform s can integrate disparate networks e.g. Wi Fi network s broadband network s service network s enterprise network s and so on . In cellular wireless technologies e.g. third generation partnership project universal mobile telecommunication system global system for mobile communication mobile network platform can be embodied in the service provider network .

In addition wireless backhaul link s can include wired link components such as T1 E1 phone line T3 DS3 line a digital subscriber line either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric digital subscriber line an optical fiber backbone a coaxial cable etc. and wireless link components such as line of sight or non line of sight links which can include terrestrial air interfaces or deep space links e.g. satellite communication links for navigation . In an aspect for universal mobile telecommunication system based networks wireless backhaul link s embodies IuB interface.

It is noted that while exemplary wireless environment is illustrated for macro cells and macro base stations aspects features and advantages of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented in micro cells pico cells femto cells or the like wherein base stations are embodied in home based equipment related to access to a network.

To provide further context for various aspects of the disclosed subject matter illustrates a block diagram of an embodiment of access equipment and or software related to access of a network e.g. base station wireless access point femtocell access point and so forth that can enable and or exploit features or aspects of the disclosed aspects.

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network can receive and transmit signal s from and to wireless devices wireless ports wireless routers etc. through segments B is a positive integer . Segments can be internal and or external to access equipment and or software related to access of a network and can be controlled by a monitor component and an antenna component . Monitor component and antenna component can couple to communication platform which can include electronic components and associated circuitry that provide for processing and manipulation of received signal s and other signal s to be transmitted.

In an aspect communication platform includes a receiver transmitter that can convert analog signals to digital signals upon reception of the analog signals and can convert digital signals to analog signals upon transmission. In addition receiver transmitter can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. Coupled to receiver transmitter can be a multiplexer demultiplexer that can facilitate manipulation of signals in time and frequency space. Multiplexer demultiplexer can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing frequency division multiplexing orthogonal frequency division multiplexing code division multiplexing space division multiplexing. In addition multiplexer demultiplexer component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art such as Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so forth .

A modulator demodulator is also a part of communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation with M a positive integer phase shift keying and so forth .

Access equipment and or software related to access of a network also includes a processor configured to confer at least in part functionality to substantially any electronic component in access equipment and or software . In particular processor can facilitate configuration of access equipment and or software through for example monitor component antenna component and one or more components therein. Additionally access equipment and or software can include display interface which can display functions that control functionality of access equipment and or software or reveal operation conditions thereof. In addition display interface can include a screen to convey information to an end user. In an aspect display interface can be a liquid crystal display a plasma panel a monolithic thin film based electrochromic display and so on. Moreover display interface can include a component e.g. speaker that facilitates communication of aural indicia which can also be employed in connection with messages that convey operational instructions to an end user. Display interface can also facilitate data entry e.g. through a linked keypad or through touch gestures which can cause access equipment and or software to receive external commands e.g. restart operation .

Broadband network interface facilitates connection of access equipment and or software to a service provider network not shown that can include one or more cellular technologies e.g. third generation partnership project universal mobile telecommunication system global system for mobile communication and so on through backhaul link s not shown which enable incoming and outgoing data flow. Broadband network interface can be internal or external to access equipment and or software and can utilize display interface for end user interaction and status information delivery.

Processor can be functionally connected to communication platform and can facilitate operations on data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times and so on. Moreover processor can be functionally connected through data system or an address bus to display interface and broadband network interface to confer at least in part functionality to each of such components.

In access equipment and or software memory can retain location and or coverage area e.g. macro sector identifier s access list s that authorize access to wireless coverage through access equipment and or software sector intelligence that can include ranking of coverage areas in the wireless environment of access equipment and or software radio link quality and strength associated therewith or the like. Memory also can store data structures code instructions and program modules system or device information code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission access point configuration and so on. Processor can be coupled e.g. through a memory bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information used to operate and or confer functionality to the components platform and interface that reside within access equipment and or software .

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device including but not limited to including single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit a digital signal processor a field programmable gate array a programmable logic controller a complex programmable logic device a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions and or processes described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of mobile devices. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component and or process refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components including the memory. It is noted that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory for example can be included in memory non volatile memory see below disk storage see below and memory storage see below . Further nonvolatile memory can be included in read only memory programmable read only memory electrically programmable read only memory electrically erasable programmable read only memory or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation random access memory is available in many forms such as synchronous random access memory dynamic random access memory synchronous dynamic random access memory double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory enhanced synchronous dynamic random access memory Synchlink dynamic random access memory and direct Rambus random access memory. Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to include without being limited to including these and any other suitable types of memory.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that performs particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. For example in memory there can be software which can instruct a processor to perform various actions. The processor can be configured to execute the instructions in order to implement the analysis of monitoring an uplink power level detecting the uplink power level is at or above a threshold level and or disable transmission of at least one message as a result of the monitored uplink power level.

Moreover those skilled in the art will understand that the various aspects can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers base stations hand held computing devices or user equipment such as a tablet phone watch and so forth processor based computers systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network however some if not all aspects of the subject disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to a block diagram of a computing system operable to execute the disclosed systems and methods is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . System bus couples system components including but not limited to system memory to processing unit . Processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as processing unit .

System bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus or an external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to industrial standard architecture micro channel architecture extended industrial standard architecture intelligent drive electronics video electronics standards association local bus peripheral component interconnect card bus universal serial bus advanced graphics port personal computer memory card international association bus Firewire and small computer systems interface.

System memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . A basic input output system containing routines to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory programmable read only memory electrically programmable read only memory electrically erasable programmable read only memory or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation random access memory is available in many forms such as dynamic random access memory synchronous random access memory synchronous dynamic random access memory double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory enhanced synchronous dynamic random access memory Synchlink dynamic random access memory and direct Rambus random access memory direct Rambus dynamic random access memory and Rambus dynamic random access memory.

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. In an implementation provided is a non transitory or tangible computer readable medium storing executable instructions that in response to execution cause a system comprising a processor to perform operations. The operations can include comparing a first network congestion condition and a first network parameter condition received from a first set of network devices of a first network and a second network congestion condition and a second network parameter condition received from a second set of network devices of a second network to a usage parameter and a movement parameter of a mobile device. The operations can also include determining a radio technology e.g. radio network device to which to route network traffic of the mobile device. Determining the routing of the network traffic can include based on a first outcome of the comparing determining to route the network traffic to the first set of network devices associated with a first radio technology. In another example determining the routing of the network traffic can include based on a second outcome of the comparing determining to route the network traffic of the mobile device to the second set of network devices associated with a second radio technology. In an implementation determining the set of network devices can include complying with a network selection policy received from a network device that provides a service to the mobile device. Further the operations can include facilitating routing of the network traffic of the mobile device to the set of network devices.

In an implementation the operations can include analyzing relative movement of the mobile device with respect to the first set of network devices and the second set of network devices . According to another implementation the operations can include determining speed data representing a substantially current speed of the mobile device and direction data representing a substantially current direction of the mobile device.

It is to be noted that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and computer resources described in suitable operating environment. Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of computer system . System applications can take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be understood that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands or information for example through interface component into computer system through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to processing unit through system bus through interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus. Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s .

Thus for example a universal serial bus port can be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices such as monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which use special adapters. Output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide means of connection between output device and system bus . It is also noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . Remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network computer a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer .

For purposes of brevity only one memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected through communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks and wide area networks. Local area network technologies include fiber distributed data interface copper distributed data interface Ethernet token ring and the like. Wide area network technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks such as integrated services digital networks and variations thereon packet switching networks and digital subscriber lines.

Communication connection s refer s to hardware software employed to connect network interface to system bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software for connection to network interface can include for example internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

It is to be noted that aspects features or advantages of the aspects described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any communication technology. For example 4G technologies Wi Fi worldwide interoperability for microwave access Enhanced gateway general packet radio service third generation partnership project long term evolution third generation partnership project ultra mobile broadband third generation partnership project universal mobile telecommunication system high speed packet access high speed downlink packet access high speed uplink packet access global system for mobile communication edge radio access network universal mobile telecommunication system terrestrial radio access network long term evolution advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. global system for mobile communication. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. Internet data service network such as Internet protocol television can exploit aspect or features described herein.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware.

Other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware can enable or implement aspects described herein including the disclosed method s . The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc digital versatile disc blu ray disc . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows.

Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to random access memory read only memory electrically erasable programmable read only memory flash memory or other memory technology compact disk read only memory digital versatile disk or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the one or more aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

As used in this application the terms component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution computer executable instructions a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output components as well as associated processor application or application programming interface components.

The term set subset or the like as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein . Thus a set subset or the like includes one or more elements or periods for example. As an illustration a set of periods includes one or more periods a set of transmissions includes one or more transmissions a set of resources includes one or more resources a set of messages includes one or more messages and so forth.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

