---

title: Time-based triggering of related content links
abstract: Video content can be amplified to enhance the experiences of content consumers. In that regard, the presentation of the video content need not be treated as a standalone experience, but rather can be integrated with other rich and related content to provide a more immersive and engaging experience. Video content can be presented in a first portion of the display, and references to related content can be presented in a second portion of the display. The references can be triggered at defined times of the presentation of the video content. The related content can be displayed alongside the video content upon selection of an associated reference or in some cases automatically at the defined time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09307181&OS=09307181&RS=09307181
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09307181
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140401
---
This disclosure generally relates to mechanisms for providing links during a presentation of a video that reference content that is related to the video at a predetermined time during the presentation of a video.

Today a significant portion of video presentations are sourced remotely and streamed to a local display. Numerous opportunities exist to enhance the experiences of content creators curators and content consumers in connection with video content.

The following presents a simplified summary of the specification in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the specification. This summary is not an extensive overview of the specification. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the specification nor delineate the scope of any particular embodiments of the specification or any scope of the claims. Its purpose is to present some concepts of the specification in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented in this disclosure.

Systems disclosed herein relate to time based triggering of related content links e.g. references . A presentation component can be configured to provide a presentation of a video at a first portion of a display. An amplification component can be configured to facilitate at a second portion of the display a presentation of a reference that references related content that is related to the video. A timing component can be configured to instruct the amplification component to activate the reference at the defined time associated with the presentation of the video.

The following description and the drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects of the specification. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the specification may be employed. Other advantages and novel features of the specification will become apparent from the following detailed description of the specification when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Video content can be very engaging but is in some ways one dimensional and transitory. In this regard the viewing experience of video presentations can be extended to provide improved engagement and storytelling power and to introduce content creators or curators and content consumers to a richer range of content types with which most users are already familiar. The disclosed subject matter can provide a scalable video curation platform and a richer video presentation platform. These platforms can provide content amplification and rich topic based linking in connection with video presentations

For example content amplification can relate to mechanisms to signpost and display other sources of related content e.g. web content alongside a video in a separate portion of the display. Signposting can be contextual with respect to the video and triggered at a specific point on the video timeline. It is appreciated that technologies exist that leverage in frame annotation however the disclosed subject matter has numerous advantages over previous in frame annotation. For example previous in frame annotations exist within the video presentation area which can occlude and or interfere with the presentation. In contrast the claimed subject matter can provide references in a separate portion of the display. Furthermore previous in frame annotations typically do not significantly affect a viewing experience in terms of e.g. interactivity and immersion with respect to the video content. In contrast the claimed subject matter can provide for richer related content and potentially user directed themes or categories for the related content. As another example previous in frame annotations typically operate at most on the source video presentation. In contrast the claimed subject matter can provide links that operate on or affect multiple presentations included in the integrated display.

In some embodiments advanced content management tools or techniques can be provided. Such can enable content creators or curators to easily and effectively link content through a network of relationships that goes deeper than simple tags which can enrich the experiences of content consumers and can improve content discovery processes. Such tools and techniques can be supplemented by an ability to map content to sources such as Freebase to automatically discover further relationships and to join the platform content to a knowledge graph.

In some embodiments the disclosed subject matter can be implemented via a browser e.g. web browser . Responsive interfaces can be provided and such interfaces can be optimized for any form factor including e.g. mobile displays or tablet displays.

Various aspects or features of this disclosure are described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In this specification numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of this disclosure. It should be understood however that certain aspects of disclosure may be practiced without these specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form to facilitate describing the subject disclosure.

It is to be appreciated that in accordance with one or more implementations described in this disclosure users can consent to providing data in connection with data gathering aspects. In instances where a user consents to the use of such data the data may be used in an authorized manner. Moreover one or more implementations described herein can provide for anonymization of identifiers e.g. for devices or for data collected received or transmitted as well as transparency and user controls that can include functionality to enable users to modify or delete data relating to the user s use of a product or service.

Referring now to a system is depicted. System can present amplified content that can inter alia provide for presenting links or references to related content at a defined time during a presentation of a video. Embodiments disclosed herein can for example extend the viewing experience of video content and can leverage the engagement and storytelling power of video in advantageous ways including introducing content consumers to a richer range of content types that can be integrated and or unified. System can include a memory that stores computer executable components and a processor that executes computer executable components stored in the memory examples of which can be found with reference to . It is to be appreciated that the computer can be used in connection with implementing one or more of the systems or components shown and described in connection with and other figures disclosed herein. As depicted system can include a presentation component an amplification component and a timing component .

Presentation component can be configured to provide a presentation of a video at a first portion of a display . In that regard presentation component or other components of system can be coupled to repository . Repository can include one or more video that is presented e.g. via video presentation one or more reference elements and one or more related content elements which are further detailed herein. By way of brief introduction however related content can be related to video and or video presentation . Reference can represent a link address location or call to the related content . Elements can be included in a single repository or distributed among multiple repositories . As used herein repository is intended to be a store of all or portions of data data sets or information described herein or otherwise suitable for use with the described subject matter. repository can be centralized either remotely or locally cached or distributed potentially across multiple devices and or schemas. Furthermore repository can be embodied as substantially any type of memory including but not limited to volatile or non volatile sequential access structured access or random access solid state and so on. It should be understood that all or portions of repository can be included in systems or other suitable components described herein or can reside in part or entirely remotely.

In some embodiments video data can reside at a content hosting site or service and can be streamed via a communication network to a user device display e.g. display . Regardless as previously noted presentation component can provide video presentation at a particular location of display which is denoted herein as first portion and for which various illustrative examples are provided in connection with . Display can be a view screen of some type or a graphical user interface. In some embodiments display can be a user interface associated with a browser such as a web browser.

Amplification component can be configured to facilitate a reference presentation which can leverage presentation component . Reference presentation can be a presentation of a particular reference that references related content that is related to video and or video presentation . Reference presentation can be presented at a second portion of display that differs from first portion . In other words amplification component can present a reference to content in one part of display e.g. second portion that references related content that is related to a video that is being presented in another part of display e.g. first portion .

Timing component can be configured to instruct amplification component to activate the reference at a defined time associated with the presentation of the video . For example certain related content might only be relevant to video during a brief segment of video presentation e.g. for a thirty second span that begins two minutes into video presentation . In that case defined time can be 2 00 minutes and can span for thirty seconds. At the defined time reference can be activated which depending on the embodiment can take many forms. In some embodiments reference presentation might be displayed at the defined time . After the thirty second period reference presentation might be removed from display . In some embodiments reference presentation might be previously or continuously presented at second portion but ghosted and or not selectable then become active and or selectable at defined time . Regardless of the implementation once reference becomes active a live link to related content can be provided various examples of which can be found in connection with .

Referring now to illustration is provided. Illustration depicts numerous examples of related content . It is understood that related content can be expansive but a few non limiting concrete examples are provided for illustrative purposes. For instance related content can be another video a map e.g. an orthogonal map satellite view etc. or a street view any of which might be interactive or updateable. As other examples related content can be various types of content such as knowledge content charting content search engine results or user account data .

Knowledge content can relate to information from a knowledge graph information from a wiki or other data source e.g. biographies guides etc. product or brand information specifications purchasing etc. and so forth. Charting content can relate to various relevant charting data which can include heat maps bar pie or other charts and so forth. User account data can relate to named account identities or content searches to be displayed within e.g. a channel and associated with specific content. Such might be related to accounts associated with online services such as social networking services content hosting services communication services and so on.

As still another example related content can be an application . In some embodiments application can be an application programming interface API . As with items content from application can be embedded in display in addition to video presentation .

Turning now to Illustration is provided. Illustration depicts an example arrangement for display . In this example presentation of video can be situated at the first portion of the display . Presentation of reference s can be situated at the second portion of the display . Reference presentation can update as video presentation progresses. For example suppose the beginning of video presentation mentions a particular brand of chocolate but thereafter there is no further mention of the chocolate. In that case reference presentation can update such that during the beginning of the video presentation various references to content related to that particular brand of chocolate can be presented and thereafter those references can be removed. At the appropriate times timing component of system can instruct amplification component to activate those references which is denoted by reference numeral . Such can occur at the defined time associated with video presentation e.g. while video presentation is making mention of the chocolate or otherwise when such a reference is relevant.

In some embodiments amplification component can facilitate at one or more defined time a visual cue . Visual cue can be configured to attract attention to reference presentation . For example a reference that links to video content that details the making of the chocolate can be displayed initially but that reference can be grayed or ghosted. At defined time the reference can become active and the associated presentation can be highlighted or flash briefly to provide visual cue .

In some embodiments amplification component can facilitate at one or more defined time a presentation of the related content . In this example the related content is a brief video detailing the making of the chocolate and such can be automatically presented at third portion of display . Generally third portion differs from first portion as illustrated and does not overlap first portion . A content consumer might choose to play the related content for instance by selecting a play icon within third portion. Other related content might be presented in fourth portion such as sales information relating to the brand of chocolate in the country or other locale of the content consumer.

In some embodiments amplification component can facilitate a presentation of the related content in response to selection of an associated reference included in reference presentation that is located at second portion of display . For instance a content consumer might select an icon associated with reference via a mouse click and such selection input can be provided to system . Regardless of whether related content presentation is initiated automatically e.g. at a defined time or in response to selection input additional aspects can be provided.

For example in some embodiments related content can be presented in first portion of display and video presentation that previously occupied first portion can be moved to third portion or another portion of display . In such cases video presentation and or related content presentation can be resized while being moved to the destination portion of display . In some embodiments video presentation can continue uninterrupted during related content presentation . In other embodiments for instance in the case where related content is another video video presentation can be automatically paused.

Graphical depiction of also includes a first portion second portion and third portion . In this example video presentation relates to a city mayor discussing lessons he learned while growing up in a poor neighborhood. While the mayor mentions his boyhood neighborhood related content can be a streetview of the indicated neighborhood or even the specific address. Such might be presented automatically e.g. at a defined time or in response to selection of an associated reference .

Graphical depiction of also includes a first portion second portion and third portion . In this example video presentation relates to a video from a popular fashion blog wherein the first episode relates to fashion in Milan Italy. In this case related content relates to an interactive map of Milan which can be presented at a relevant time e.g. defined time or in response to selection input .

Turning now to various example interfaces are provided. These interfaces illustrate an overall progression of an example experience of a content consumer as well as providing an example of the experience on a mobile tablet or smaller form factor devices. Interface depicts an example illustration in which a variety of different categories available within the overall content domain are presented. The content consumer might choose to filter the overall content in a range of different ways such as e.g. by category video author topic and so on.

Upon selection of a particular category depicted by example interface the display can change to that of example interface . For instance one the content consumer has selected the category or area of content of interest the presentation can then provide the ability to browse a selection of video content with additional content provided. Selecting a video e.g. at example interface can progress to an immersive layer with amplified content as detailed herein and similar to that detailed in connection with .

Example interface reflects an example of the immersive layer. Video presentation can be provided as well as reference presentation that presents various references . Once viewing a video the content consumer can be provided with a range of different options for engaging further with the video content as detailed. For example amplification content e.g. provided by references can be arranged alongside the video and can be accessed while the video continues to play. In addition content items can be actively brought to the attention of the user through timeline based triggers which can be set up with a set of curation tools further detailed below. Related content e.g. related content can be presented via a variety of calls to action and can open up many ways in which the content consumer can surf on to the next piece of content depending on which feature of the video has most effectively engaged the content consumer. It is appreciated that deep linking can be provided as well which can enable the content consumer to drop straight into this immersive layer through a shared link or shortcut provided from another source such as another area of a video channel.

Referring to system is provided. System can provide for augmenting video content to enable time based triggers of related content links or references. For example system can provide a set of tools such that curators and or content creators can create the content that is presented according to system detailed above. System can include an augmentation component a temporal component and a tagging component .

Augmentation component can be configured to identify related content that is related to a presentation of a video . Additional features or aspects of augmentation component can be found with reference to . Temporal component can identify time data that represents a run time during the presentation of the video characterized by the related content being relevant. For instance drawing from the previous example if video mentions a particular brand of chocolate at a particular time during the presentation of video then at that time related content that relates to the making of chocolate items can be deemed to be relevant. However after some time has elapsed and there are not more mentions of chocolate in video the above mentioned related content might no longer be relevant. Accordingly the time range of relevance for a particular item of related content can be included in time data .

Tagging component can be configured to tag video with tag data that includes an instruction to trigger display of a reference to related content at the run time of a presentation of video that is included in time data . It is appreciated that the instruction to trigger display of the reference can be for a display in a different portion of the screen than the area in which video is being presented.

Turning now to system is provided. System provides for additional features or aspects in connection with augmentation component . As detailed previously augmentation component can identify related content . In some embodiments augmentation component can identify related content based on input received from a content curator entity which can be a device associated with an individual creating or curating video . In such embodiments the curator the other content that is related and augmentation component identifies related content based on that input .

Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments augmentation component can identify related content without explicit direction from the content creator. For example augmentation component can examine video perform various types of analyses and compare video to a set of related content items included in related content repository .

For instance some embodiments augmentation component can identify based on a transcript of the presentation of video . Transcript can be a rich source of information about video as well as information that can be accurately and efficiently mapped to items of related content with a high degree of confidence. In some embodiments augmentation component can be identified based on a brand . Brand can related to a product brand a channel brand a video content brand web content brand etc. Brand can also serve as a rich source of information that can be effectively mapped to items of related content. For example if video relates to a particular brand of automobile then rich sources of information can be mined and presented as related content that relate to that particular automobile e.g. specifications images etc. or to the manufacturer and so forth. It is appreciated that augmentation component can identify related content in many other ways based on various other examples of data which is illustrated as other data .

In some embodiments and particularly when related content is identified based on machine techniques e.g. without curator input or the like then such related content might require authorization from content curator entity .

At reference numeral a presentation of a reference that references related content that is related to the video can be provided at a second portion of the display. This reference or multiple references can be presented e.g. in a frame close to the embedded player.

At reference numeral the reference can be activated at a defined time during the presentation of the video. For example certain references might become relevant at certain times during the progress of the video. At such a time the reference can be activated which can mean the link to the related content becomes active the reference is highlighted or otherwise updated with visual indicia intended to draw attention or the reference becomes visible in second portion or is initially presented. Method can end or continue to insert A which is detailed in connection with .

At reference numeral the related content can be presented in response to selection input that selects the reference. In other words a content consumer viewing the presentation of the video and noticing the reference e.g. at the defined time due to a visual cue might click the reference icon which can prompt a presentation of the related content in addition to the video. The related content can be presented alongside the video in different portions of the display and or an associated user interface.

At reference numeral the related content can be presented at the first portion of the display. As detailed in connection with reference numeral of the presentation of the video typically initially occupies the first portion of the display. Thus if related content is presented in the first portion of the display then the presentation of the video can be moved to a third portion of the display. At reference numeral the presentation of the video can be resized in accordance with the third portion of the display. It is appreciated that while the presentation of the video is moved and or resized that presentation of the video can continue uninterrupted and the viewing experience need not be halted while the content consumer examines the related content. In some embodiments the presentation of the video might alternatively be paused either temporarily or until manually unpaused by the content consumer.

The systems and processes described below can be embodied within hardware such as a single integrated circuit IC chip multiple ICs an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or the like. Further the order in which some or all of the process blocks appear in each process should not be deemed limiting. Rather it should be understood that some of the process blocks can be executed in a variety of orders not all of which may be explicitly illustrated herein.

With reference to a suitable environment for implementing various aspects of the claimed subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory a codec and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1394 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI or others now in existence or later developed.

The system memory includes volatile memory and non volatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in non volatile memory . In addition according to present innovations codec may include at least one of an encoder or decoder wherein the at least one of an encoder or decoder may consist of hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. Although codec is depicted as a separate component codec may be contained within non volatile memory or included in other components detailed herein. By way of illustration and not limitation non volatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. According to present aspects the volatile memory may store the write operation retry logic not shown in and the like. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM and enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM resistive RAM RRAM or others now in existence or later developed.

Computer may also include removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage medium. illustrates for example disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive solid state disk SSD floppy disk drive tape drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage medium separately or in combination with other storage medium including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface . It is appreciated that storage devices can store information related to a user. Such information might be stored at or provided to a server or to an application running on a user device. In one embodiment the user can be notified e.g. by way of output device s of the types of information that are stored to disk storage and or transmitted to the server or application. The user can be provided the opportunity to authorize having such information collected and or shared with the server or application e.g. by way of input from input device s .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in the suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer system . Applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data such as the boot shutdown transaction table and the like stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device a smart phone a tablet or other network node and typically includes many of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then connected via communication connection s . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN and cellular networks. LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and wired and wireless Ethernet cards hubs and routers.

Referring now to there is illustrated a schematic block diagram of a computing environment in accordance with this specification. The system includes one or more client s e.g. laptops smart phones PDAs media players computers portable electronic devices tablets and the like . The client s can be hardware and or software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The system also includes one or more server s . The server s can also be hardware or hardware in combination with software e.g. threads processes computing devices . The servers can house threads to perform transformations by employing aspects of this disclosure for example. One possible communication between a client and a server can be in the form of a data packet transmitted between two or more computer processes wherein the data packet may include video data. The data packet can include a cookie and or associated contextual information for example. The system includes a communication framework e.g. a global communication network such as the Internet or mobile network s that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s .

Communications can be facilitated via a wired including optical fiber and or wireless technology. The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s e.g. cookie s and or associated contextual information . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

In one embodiment a client can transfer an encoded file in accordance with the disclosed subject matter to server . Server can store the file decode the file or transmit the file to another client . It is to be appreciated that a client can also transfer uncompressed file to a server and server can compress the file in accordance with the disclosed subject matter. Likewise server can encode video information and transmit the information via communication framework to one or more clients .

The illustrated aspects of the disclosure may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Moreover it is to be appreciated that various components described herein can include electrical circuit s that can include components and circuitry elements of suitable value in order to implement the embodiments of the subject innovation s . Furthermore it can be appreciated that many of the various components can be implemented on one or more integrated circuit IC chips. For example in one embodiment a set of components can be implemented in a single IC chip. In other embodiments one or more of respective components are fabricated or implemented on separate IC chips.

What has been described above includes examples of the embodiments of the present invention. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but it is to be appreciated that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the claimed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Moreover the above description of illustrated embodiments of the subject disclosure including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosed embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments and examples are described herein for illustrative purposes various modifications are possible that are considered within the scope of such embodiments and examples as those skilled in the relevant art can recognize. Moreover use of the term an embodiment or one embodiment throughout is not intended to mean the same embodiment unless specifically described as such.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the claimed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the innovation includes a system as well as a computer readable storage medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the claimed subject matter.

The aforementioned systems circuits modules have been described with respect to interaction between several components blocks. It can be appreciated that such systems circuits and components blocks can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it should be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but known by those of skill in the art.

In addition while a particular feature of the subject innovation may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes including has contains variants thereof and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

As used in this application the terms component module system or the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware e.g. a circuit a combination of hardware and software software or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor e.g. digital signal processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Further a device can come in the form of specially designed hardware generalized hardware made specialized by the execution of software thereon that enables the hardware to perform specific function software stored on a computer readable medium or a combination thereof.

Moreover the words example or exemplary are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the words example or exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media in which these two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer is typically of a non transitory nature and can include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

On the other hand communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal that can be transitory such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

