---

title: Wireless device for group access and management
abstract: A system and method for establishing a group of wireless devices having shared media stored thereupon associates each group member device of the group of wireless devices, communicates with at least some of the group member devices of the group of wireless devices to identify shared media and upon receiving a request transmitted by a group member device of the group of wireless devices, supports access to shared media. The shared media may be stored on a different group member device, upon a managing server computer, or a media server. Upon a successful validation, the group member device that made the request is notified to facilitate the access to the shared media. The notification includes access information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09078136&OS=09078136&RS=09078136
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 09078136
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140127
---
The present U.S. Utility patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 as a continuation of U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 12 549 620 entitled Wireless Device for Group Access and Management filed Aug. 28 2009 issuing as U.S. Pat. No. 8 640 204 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and made part of the present U.S. Utility patent application for all purposes.

The present invention relates to wired and wireless communications and more particularly to accessing shared media services and resources by grouped member devices.

In today s world of rapidly changing devices that instantly add tools that become a significant part of everyday life the Internet has served as a backbone for coupling networks of all types include cellular and wireless local area networks as well as wired networks to create opportunity for the continual advancement of feature based devices. As different devices are developed to operate using these networks popular features are often limited to the particular devices. Thus devices are often application specific having application related data formats and associated interfaces that are incompatible. Accordingly specific functionality corresponds to specific hardware platforms that support specific protocols and interfaces.

Many communication systems nonetheless support wireless and wire lined communications between wireless and or wire lined communication devices to expand global communications. Such communication systems range from national and or international cellular telephone systems to the Internet to point to point in home wireless networks.

Each type of communication system is constructed to operate to be compatible with one or more communication standards. For instance wireless communication systems may operate in accordance with one or more standards including but not limited to IEEE 802.11 Bluetooth advanced mobile phone services AMPS digital AMPS global system for mobile communications GSM code division multiple access CDMA local multi point distribution systems LMDS multi channel multi point distribution systems MMDS and or variations thereof.

Depending on the type of wireless communication system a wireless communication device such as a cellular telephone two way radio personal digital assistant PDA personal computer PC laptop computer home entertainment equipment etc. communicates directly or indirectly with other wireless communication devices. For direct communications also known as point to point communications the participating wireless communication devices tune their receivers and transmitters to the same channel or channels e.g. one of a plurality of radio frequency RF carriers of the wireless communication system and communicate over that channel s .

For indirect wireless communications each wireless communication device communicates directly with an associated base station e.g. for cellular services and or an associated access point e.g. for an in home or in building wireless network via an assigned channel. To complete a communication connection between the wireless communication devices the associated base stations and or associated access points communicate with each other directly via a system controller via a public switch telephone network PSTN via the Internet and or via some other wide area network.

Each wireless communication device includes a built in radio transceiver i.e. receiver and transmitter or is connected to a radio transceiver e.g. a station for in home and or in building wireless communication networks RF modem etc. . The various circuit blocks of a radio transceiver jointly operate to support communications and associated functionality according to the type of communication system s it supports.

The Internet has thus vastly expanded capabilities and services that may be provided to the user. For example users can now download media including streaming media on demand. Other network based services are also now available based on the connectivity that is possible due to the integration and cross platform coupling that the Internet has made possible.

The present invention is directed to apparatus and methods of operation that are further described in the following Brief Description of the Drawings the Detailed Description of the Invention and the claims. Other features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention made with reference to the accompanying drawings.

In the exemplary embodiment of a primary group member e.g. cell phone creates an association of group member devices for the networked group of wired and wireless devices. The association of group members includes at least two devices and may be permanent until changed or temporary limited by time or usage. Cell phone as a primary group member is operable to store a list of authorized identities that are allowed to access to shared media services or resources. Cell phone determines therefore whether a requested access or sharing is authorized. In one embodiment such determinations may be based on defined criteria such as stored digital rights management specifications DRM .

Digital rights management refers to access control technologies that limit access and use of content. Generally DRM limits the playback of protected content to prevent copying and or unpaid use of such content. Additionally hardware often limits access to content because content is formatted in a manner in which only specified types of devices can access the content. As such a user typically purchases multiple hand held devices to access various types of content and or services. Generally DRM and or hardware limitations only allow access in a specified manner and often limit enjoyment of content and or services that are purchased by a user. The embodiments of the invention among other aspects address authorized access to shared media services or resources that would otherwise by limited by digital rights management or by hardware limitations. Specifically DRM specifications stored within any of the group member devices as well as the media sources such as media source or service device allow group access to shared media services or resources under the control of a group member device.

In one embodiment the DRM based sharing logic is stored within the primary group member such as cell phone . Thus cell phone upon receiving an access request message from another group member device is operable to determine that the other group member device of group member devices is authorized to access the shared media service or resource. After validating the access request by determining the other group member device is authorized to access the shared media service or resource cell phone communicates with the other group member device to allow access to the shared media services or resources. This communication can be in the form of transmitting access information or even transmitting the requested media to the other group member device.

Generally each of the group member device identities for group member devices are entered into memory of cell phone or received by cell phone from the group of wireless devices . The identities are stored in a way to create an association or group for the group member devices . Based on the DRM specifications and this association group member devices may share or access specified media service or resource for which group access is allowed. The term resources refers to all resources of the device here cell phone and includes hardware circuitry software logic account and access information data etc. For example one group member device may grant access to hardware resources to allow the other device to access shared media or services that can only be accessed with specific hardware interfaces or communications protocols. Alternately cell phone may allow another cell phone device to use its transceiver circuitry and account information identity to place a call.

The group member devices of the group of wireless devices includes a plurality of group member devices that are associated as a group and have access rights to shared media services and shared resources. The shared media may be discrete files of media e.g. video or audio content electronic books etc. or streaming media received by a plurality of group member devices. All references to shared media include media in all forms include discrete files and streaming media. Furthermore services may be shared that do not necessarily require the sharing of content or media. In one embodiment hardware and software resources including data and account access information that are required to access shared media or services are shared to support and allow the access to the requested shared media or service.

Resource sharing may be for the purpose of accessing shared media or services or may be for other reasons. For example transceiver circuitry may be shared for the sole reason of reducing the cost of a call. Thus if a temporary group association is defined a first cell phone having a local subscription may share its phone account and access circuitry logic and resources to allow another cell phone e.g. a visiting cell phone to use such resources for a call. The visiting cell phone might therefore communicate with the first cell phone via a WLAN Bluetooth or tethered connection to gain access to the shared resources to place the call. For example permission to use such resources may be limited in a number of ways including duration usage or number of occurrences.

In the described embodiment the group member devices are associated with cell phone that is operable to control access to shared media that is distributed by media source . Thus cell phone as a part of managing or establishing the group association for accessing shared media may store the device IDs to create the group. In this example a user of cell phone enters the device identities for each of the group member devices to create the group or alternately establishes a wired or wireless connection with the devices of networked group and selects an option to create the association. Cell phone then stores at least one type of identity that corresponds to the device of networked group as a part of creating the grouped association.

Additionally in one embodiment the user of the primary group member device such as cell phone selects types of media and other resources that may be shared and or a total amount of access or usage of the shared media or resource. The type of access or total amount of access is tiered and is thus specified either as a group total individual group member device total for each group member device could be different for the different devices or even sub group totals. For sub groups sub group members of group member devices of the sub group have equal allocations that are different from other sub groups. In one embodiment cell phone monitors a number of times shared media or a service is accessed and denies access after the shared media or service has been accessed a specified number of times either collectively by the group of wireless devices by an associated sub group or by the individual group member device of the group member devices .

As may further be seen each device of networked group includes an application programming interface API . API generally comprises an application specific interface between the group member devices of networked group that supports media service and or resource sharing. For example API supports transmission and processing of communication signals control commands and data that support group media and service sharing and resource sharing. As such PDA for example may use a personal area network wireless protocol for short distance wireless communications to establish a communication link with cell phone to receive shared media delivered to cell phone from media source . The API within each of cell phone and PDA jointly communicate to support such operations.

Cell phone in one embodiment transmits access authorization information to media source either in response to receiving a request from one of group member devices to access shared media or in advance to support shared access to shared media by group member devices based in part upon stored DRM requirements that support group access to shared media.

For example cell phone may send a group identity or a list of device identities to media source having an association for accessing shared media to enable any one of group member devices to request shared media. Accordingly media source stores authorized identities for shared media. In an alternate embodiment cell phone does not send a list of identities. Rather if a group member seeking access to the shared media is an authorized device cell phone merely transmits its own identity to media source to download the requested media and then transmits the requested media to the other group member device of group member devices seeking access to the shared media. For this embodiment DRM specifications in media source are not required to allow group access to shared media as such operations are transparent to media source .

Alternately if cell phone allows another group member device to use its resources the other device e.g. media player uses hardware and or software resources to establish a communication link with media source to download desired media. For example if media source is the iTunes store operated to support media downloads for Apple products and if cell phone is for example an iPhone which is an Apple product media player may use communication hardware and software of cell phone as well as access logic and account information stored within cell phone to download media content from media source . Moreover media player may use logic and processing capabilities of cell phone to perform a protocol conversion of the downloaded media content prior to downloading the content from cell phone .

The access authorization information may also include in the same or subsequent transmissions or messages information to allow access that corresponds to a specific content request transmitted by one of group member devices . Accordingly media source transmits shared media to respond to a content request according to DRM specifications . Generally all such sharing of media content and hardware and software resources including access logic and data is performed in association with the DRM specifications that allow group based access to media content. Alternately access permissions may be tiered to allow access to resources that don t allow violation of the DRM specifications. For example access may be given to share communication resources or processing resources but not access logic or data.

One aspect of DRM specifications in the described embodiment of the invention is that group access to specified media content is validated by a primary group member device based on group associations. While not shown explicitly here in and as will be explained in greater detail in relation to the figures that follow cell phone in one embodiment stores DRM specifications in relation to shared media access by group member devices to allow group access to shared media.

Another aspect of DRM specifications in the described embodiment is that the group member devices may be different types of devices having different types of hardware resources and associated capabilities wherein the group members of an associated group are allowed to use each other s resources to gain access to shared media. For example PDA may access the memory of cell phone to download shared media stored by cell phone . Alternatively PDA may utilize hardware resources of cell phone to download shared media from media source .

As is suggested in cell phone may establish a communication link with network hardware to access media source or alternately may utilize network resources of personal computer to communicate with media source through network hardware . If network hardware is an access point cell phone utilizes in one embodiment a personal area network protocol such as Bluetooth or a wireless local area network protocol based on IEEE 802.11 to communicate with network hardware . If network hardware comprises one or more cellular network elements such as a base station transceiver then cell phone communicates with network hardware using a corresponding cellular protocol. Cell phone also determines in one embodiment a required format or protocol for the shared media for the group member device seeking access to the shared media. This determination is based upon device capabilities of the group member device seeking access to the shared media. Accordingly cell phone formats the shared media to correspond with the required format or protocol and transmits the shared media in the required format or protocol to the group member device of group member devices .

Additionally in one embodiment each API includes buffering logic and formatting logic to buffer and format shared media according to device capabilities of the group member device of group member devices that is to receive the shared media . If for example shared media is received over a first communication channel and is transmitted over a second and slower communication channel an API would buffer the received media content until transmitted on the second communication channel. Additionally even if the second communication channel is operable to transmit as fast as shared media is received on the first communication channel formatting or protocol conversion processes for repackaging the shared media may introduce delay thereby requiring buffering.

Cell phone is further operable to maintain a billing record for access to shared media including media transfers streaming media services including for example communication services etc. for subsequent billing for the access by the group member devices according to usage terms. Additionally in one embodiment cell phone is a primary group member device that has particular account access rights to modify data and control parameters for an account that corresponds to the shared access activities for group member devices . Accordingly when the particular account is accessed by cell phone specified data and control parameters are produced or displayed to cell phone . Changes to the specified data and control parameters made by cell phone are then accepted. Cell phone accesses and changes the account information that is stored on a remote server by way of WAN .

In another embodiment cell phone maintains a list of content stored on each group member device of the group member devices . This content list is populated or updated when access to shared media is authorized by cell phone or when shared media is transmitted to a group member device. The content list is also populated or updated by communicating with one or more group member devices to determine what shared media is stored thereon. Specifically a content request may be transmitted by cell phone to determine what shared media is stored on each of the group member devices of group member devices .

Cell phone transmits the content list to at least one group member device of the group member devices to facilitate group member devices sharing media amongst each other. Thus a primary group member such cell phone is operable to receive a content request message originated by a first group member device for shared media previously delivered to a second group member device. In response cell phone validates the request for the first group member device to access to the shared media that was previously delivered to the second group member device. Cell phone transmits access information to at least one of the first and second group member devices to enable the first group member device to access the shared media stored on the second group member device. Alternately cell phone transmits the shared media to the first group member device. To transmit the shared media to the first group member device cell phone retrieves the shared media from media source or from the second group member device.

One aspect of one embodiment of the invention is that cell phone transmits access information that includes an encryption key to the group member device or alternately at least partially decrypts the shared media content prior to transmitting the shared media to the group member device of group member devices .

The wireless communication channel between PDA and cell phone comprises one of a personal area network PAN protocol such as Bluetooth protocol communication link a wireless communication link with an access point using a wireless local area network WLAN protocol such as IEEE 802.11 any of the various 802.11 communication protocols may be used or any other wireless link including infrared frequency communication protocols or a wired communication link e.g. by a tether or a universal synchronous bus USB cable . The communication link between cell phone and media source comprises at least one of a cellular communication link a wired communication link over a wide area network such as WAN a WLAN communication link a PAN communication link or any other wireless link including infrared frequency communication protocols.

In operation PDA transmits access request to cell phone to request access to a resource of cell phone . For example PDA may want to use communication circuitry of cell phone to establish a communication link with a remote device that provides a service. For example access request may be an access request for a particular web page for a service provider. In such a case cell phone may communicate with a remote server associated with the specified web page. Access request and all other access request messages mentioned herein generally include any type of message that is a request for access to resources of a device for access to shared media or other content stored on the device for the receiving device to perform requested operations for the receiving device to engage in specified communications etc. In one embodiment of this type of operation cell phone generates a graphical user interface GUI based menu or other menu and transmits menu to PDA . Menu may also comprise any other menu format including a simple text menu prompting the user to reply in a specified manner.

Thereafter PDA transmits one of a selected option data or control command in response to menu to cell phone . Among other options menu may require PDA to reply with an access code or identity or a choice that specifies the type of access PDA wishes to make. It should be understood that the communications represent three or more communications that may be iterative.

Access request may be instead of an access request for a hardware resource of cell phone may be a request to access memory of cell phone or to request access to shared media. The shared media may be shared media that is stored within cell phone or it may be shared media that is stored within media source .

After the communications are complete cell phone validates the access request received in access request and subsequent communications in validation step . If the access request includes use of transceiver circuitry as is the case here in the process continues by establishing communications through a communication link with a media source using cellular transceiver circuitry. Media access communications can includes any communication to facilitate the access request of access request . Media access communications include communications made in response to received commands from PDA . Thereafter media source other group member device validates the request of communication . Once validated media source may optionally transmit an authorization or access information to cell phone . Media source then transmits requested media to cell phone . Thereafter cell phone transmits either access information or requested media to PDA based on the application and nature of access request . If cell phone receives access information for delivery to PDA cell phone transmits access information to PDA . If cell phone received the requested media at an earlier time and received authorization in authorization access information to deliver the requested media then cell phone transmits requested media . Alternatively if cell phone receives requested media in response to communication then cell phone transmits requested media to PDA .

Generally represents that an access request from PDA or another group member device of networked group for access to the resources of cell phone including hardware resources memory content shared media may be given. Additionally cell phone may communicate on behalf of PDA or under the control of PDA with media source to receive the requested media for delivery to PDA . Another aspect of the example of is that cell phone is operable to generate modified displays data for PDA .

As is shown cell phone is operable to perform step to format or buffer displays or data prior to transmitting to PDA . Thus if requested media comprises a video or a web page cell phone is operable to modify a format of the media that corresponds to technical capabilities or requirements of PDA . Finally if the requested media is a menu or web page or otherwise includes selectable options PDA transmits selection to cell phone that in turn transmits selection to media source other group member device . Additionally cell phone may also transmit usage instructions methods of interaction with the web server web page testing related parameters for a variety of purposes including determining how to support the requested access requests for authorization of currently unauthorized functionality a busy indication if the requested web page is unavailable. Other steps performed by cell phone may include determining at least one web site address that corresponds to the requested web page determining the second group member device is authorized to access the at least one web site and retrieving at least one internet protocol address for the at least one web site to support operations associated with the second group member device request for the web page. While not shown here the communications could include multiple communications or steps in any sequential order to facilitate a particular service or media access.

In the example of cell phone may engage in media access communications as if it were the device seeking access to the media or service and control the communications. Alternately cell phone may allow PDA to use its resources for media access communications . In this example PDA uses the identity account and access information and transceiver circuitry of cell phone but it is PDA that controls such communications.

Cell phone either receives the requested media based on its own initiated request or subsequently based on receiving an access request from another group member device such as media player to prompt the access communications and downloading of requested media . Upon receiving access request if the access request is for shared media cell phone transmits requested media to media player immediately if it had previously received the shared media. The access communications and receiving requested media occurs in response to cell phone receiving access request if requested media had not already been received by cell phone . If access request is for access to a service provided by media source or another networked service provider then cell phone facilitates the access and produces data generates displays or performs operational steps according to the characteristics of the associated service.

As may be seen cell phone includes group operations logic buffering and protocol conversion module and storage for storing shared media data and DRM requirements. Group operations logic defines logic to support access requests for resources or shared media including logic for associated operations according to the embodiments of the invention. For example logic may include validation logic that is different for the different group member devices of group member devices in terms of resource sharing and in terms of media sharing. For example only some of member devices may be allowed to access communication resources of cell phone . Alternately different group member devices may have different access rights to shared media.

Generally cell phone receives access request message and upon determining that the group member device of group member devices that is attempting to access the shared media is part of an authorized group for the shared media transmits requested media or allows the requested media to be downloaded from it. The media is obtained by cell phone from media source either prior to receiving or in response to receiving access request message . Requested media transmitted by cell phone to media player comprises at least a portion of the stored media in storage .

As may be seen therefor media player is using the resources of cell phone that in turn is using the resources of personal computer to receive requested media . In addition to saving costs of using cellular network such operations may require less battery power thereby enabling cell phone to operate for a longer period. In one embodiment such switching from cellular network to personal computer is triggered by a low battery charge on cell phone . In another embodiment such switching is always triggered by a determination that communication link has become available. Alternately communication link may be with a WLAN access point instead of PC . Accordingly when the access point becomes available according to one embodiment of the invention cell phone utilizes communication link to avoid cellular network . If required an existing call through network is handed off in favor of an established communication link .

While a media source is described in relation to providing requested media in and much of the discussion of relates to shared media including stored and streaming media it should be understood that any type of service provider may be shown in place of media server by for example service device . Accordingly access related communications may be for the purpose of supporting access to the requested service.

Wireless access device also includes communications interfaces and . These communication interfaces represent any number of types of communications interfaces to support communications over local area networks wireless local area networks personal area networks and cellular networks. They also support tethering and direct coupling to devices such as printers and hard disk drives for very specific operations. Additionally wireless access device includes a user interface to generate displays and audio for a user and to receive user inputs from the user.

Wireless access device also includes an application programming interface block API that defines an interface e.g. a software based communication interface and associated logic to support for group operations as described herein. Here API includes buffering protocol converter group operations logic and storage for storing group shared access media content. Generally API also includes logic and a communications interface that support group member communications for sharing services media and or resources of wireless access device . Such an interface includes for example signaling protocols for communicating with defined signals to request access to resources of device for requesting shared media for requesting shared media from another group member for uploading shared media for delivery to another group member for requesting access to shared services and for storing access related data. The interface also can include defined signals for communicating with at least one of cell phone a media source or other group member to establish access rights.

API also includes logic to facilitate the resource sharing between group member devices or associated devices. Thus resource sharing logic specifically includes interfaces and signaling logic that enable other group member devices to utilize resources within wireless access device . For example another device could access specific memory areas e.g. of content storage or specific resources such as software and hardware based communication interfaces. A PDA with only wireless local area network protocol radio transceiver elements for example may utilize cellular radio transceiver elements of wireless access device to communicate over a cellular network to establish a communication link with a media source to download desired media or alternatively merely to establish a connection for a communication or to access a service.

To illustrate API includes computer instructions to enable wireless access device to engage in resource sharing communications. The resource sharing communications include device receiving an access request here transmitted by media player to share a hardware resource from device transmitting display information or signals to the other group member here media player that define resource sharing options receiving a response from the other group member and operating according to data commands received from the other group member.

The display information that wireless access device is operable to transmit includes any one of a graphical user interface type of transmission or even text characters that correspond to the resource sharing options. As described before the resource sharing may be for hardware software memory content specified logic and or data etc. Thus each of the signals and messages may vary according to the specific implementation and resource sharing that is being pursued. Such resource sharing can be for a plurality of purposes including but not limited to sharing media including streaming media and services.

API includes a buffering protocol converter that is similar in operation and logic to buffering protocol converter logic described elsewhere in this specification. The buffering and protocol converter block is operable to buffer shared media received on a first communications interface e.g. interface until transmitted on a second communications interface e.g. interface . Buffering and protocol converter block is further operable to based on capabilities of at least one group member device that is to receive the shared media convert a format or protocol used to deliver the media content to a format or protocol that is compatible with the capabilities of the group member device s that will receive the media content.

If the media content audio files received over the first communication interface is in a first format but is required to be delivered in a second format device converts the media content to the appropriate format. To illustrate if wireless access device is an iTunes capable device that communicates with a media source that delivers audio files in an AAC format but the requesting group member device requires MP3 format audio files block is operable to buffer if necessary and to convert the audio files to MP3 format prior to transmitting the shared media to the group member device requesting the shared media content.

Wireless access device further includes group operations logic that defines group operations according to the various embodiments for accessing and sharing shared media based on a group association. Group operations logic not only defines logic for group related access of group member devices as disclosed herein but also defines logic for hardware resource sharing between group members. For example group operations logic includes resource sharing access logic that evaluates group associations to determine whether resource sharing is permitted with the other device requesting resource sharing. Such evaluation occurs prior to API engaging in resource sharing communications so that only group members are allowed to share hardware resources.

Group shared access content storage stores shared media for access by group member devices. Finally wireless access device includes a content list block for tracking content on each of the group member devices. Content list block is included in at least one embodiment in which the wireless access device is a primary group member having account access and control rights as discussed previously in relation to cell phone . Content list block populates and updates a content list and transmits the content list to group member devices to facilitate group access to shared media. As may further be seen API is operable to communicate with APIs of remote devices such as API of media player as shown here.

Responsive to engaging in media access communications PDA transmits requested media which is at least a portion of stored media . Requested media may alternately be accessed and downloaded by PDA from another media source e.g. an associated media source . In one embodiment cell phone also transmits access authorization information to PDA that includes at least one of an indication of a transaction identity or an identity of media player . PDA then validates the attempted access of media access communications based on the access authorization information and determines to produce requested media to media player .

In the example shown both the media player and PDA are group member devices of an associated group e.g. networked group of and have access rights to the shared media that may be accessed by any of group member devices . While not shown explicitly here the stored media could have been previously loaded or retrieved by PDA in response to a media request within media access communications .

Similarly in cell phone transmits an access request in the form of a content request message to media player to request shared media. Here media player is a primary group member device for media from media source . In response media player engages in media access communications with media source and receives or downloads requested media . Media player then transmits requested media to cell phone .

One aspect of the embodiment of is that they illustrate that different groups may be defined for accessing different media sources and that different group member devices may act as primary group devices for the different groups. Additionally the group membership is not necessarily the same for the multiple groups. A group member device can belong to multiple groups. Tiered access permissions may therefore be according to group in addition to being according to device ID for the group members.

As an additional aspect of the embodiments of the invention each of the media sources and and service devices includes a list of authorized ID s and associated access permissions for the group member devices. Accordingly either in addition to or in place of any validation performed by a primary group member e.g. cell phone for media distributed from media source or media player for media from media source media sources and are operable to perform access request validation.

In cell phone receives an initial content request message from media player for media from media source while media player receives an initial content request from cell phone for media from media source . It should be understood that in cell phone could receive such a content request message for media from any group member device of group member devices . Similarly in media player can receive a content request message from any of the group member devices of group member devices . The content request messages of may also be any type of resource access request message to request access for any type of resource including media content. Thus what is referenced in as a content request message may actually be an access request message such as message of which includes a request for media content. For the example operation of the access request is for content and is thus shown as content request message .

In one embodiment authorization message and access authorization information both include an authorization number. The authorization number is then included in media access communications that occur between the group member device that originated message and media source . Based on at least one of the content of authorized IDs and the media access communications media source validates the access request and transmits requested media to the group member device of group member devices that originated content request message .

One aspect to note about the operations shown in is that the shared media does not flow through the primary group member device that controls access to the shared media. Thus the primary group member device controls and facilitates access to the shared media but is not in the media path for shared media from media source . Similarly a primary group member device here cell phone may control and facilitate access to shared media stored in other group member devices of group member devices in a similar manner. In one embodiment a primary group member device can also control and facilitate resource sharing between group members . Cell phone as a primary group member device controls and facilitates access to the services provided by service device but is not in the service path. Thus in this example service device communicates directly with the corresponding group member device to provide the requested service once authorized by cell phone .

In reference to a cell phone is described in relation to operations as a primary group member. Such operations however may be by any type of device operating as a primary group member of the associated group member devices of group member devices . Such operations that relate to resource and media sharing control therefore are not limited to cell phones.

The step of communicating with at least one group member device to facilitate access to the shared media may include receiving and forwarding the shared media to one of the plurality of group member devices . This step optionally includes receiving the shared media from a shared media source or uploading the shared media from a group member . For example if a first group member requests the shared media the method includes uploading the shared media from a second group member for delivery to the first group member.

After receiving authorization the method can include optionally receiving and forwarding access information to the second group member device . Alternately the method may merely include a primary group member device that received the first content request message merely generating and transmitting access information to the other group member device. The access information may include either an authorization code or number or an encryption key for decrypting all or at least a portion of the shared media content. Alternately the method can include at least partially decrypting the shared media . Finally the method includes transmitting the shared media to the other group member device based on the group member device being authorized to receive the media. This authorization can be determined by the device performing the method based on stored DRM specifications and or based on a received authorization . In this embodiment the handheld group member device performing the method steps of had previously received and stored the shared media and is therefore sharing the stored once authorization is determined.

Wireless second device is capable of supporting both wired and wireless communications by way of short distance wireless communications e.g. infrared communications personal area network communications such as Bluetooth radio frequency identification RFID communications and other proximity based systems longer distance wireless communications e.g. wireless local area networks cellular networks satellite networks and wired communications over the various known wired and wireless networks. Wireless third device is similar to wireless second device . Service provider is a remote device such as a server operable to communicate over a plurality of networks especially packet data networks to provide a service. For example the services provided can include media services data services maintenance and repair services etc. Communication element is any type of remote device with which wireless second device may communicate over any known and supported network.

Wireless second device engages in grouping related communications with at least one of devices and to establish a group or association between at least two of the three devices . Thereafter wireless second device engages in at least one of hardware and software resource identification communications and media content identification communications with at least one of devices and to identify resources and or media or services that may be shared. Thus communications and identify content and or resources that device may access. Communications and specifically include identification of access logic and data that may be shared. For example the resources can include processing resources communication resources data storage resources video processing resources account management related resources etc. The account management related resources can include software and or stored account access information logic data and protocols.

In operation for example wireless third device transmits access request message to wireless second device . Wireless second device determines whether wireless second device is part of the associated group and what resource media or service sharing access can be allowed. Wireless second device then transmits first access permission message to wireless third device to indicate that wireless third device is allowed access as identified in request message .

The resource requested in message may be content stored within wireless second device or hardware or software or other resources of wireless second device . The access that is granted in first access permission message may be limited in any manner including a number of access times a duration that access is allowed or a definition or identification of which resources may be accessed wherein the identification of allowed resources may be less than that which was requested in message .

Wireless third device and wireless second device then engage in resource access related communications if necessary to support the access that was identified or approved within message . These communications can include wireless third device generating display signals or options for wireless second device to allow a user of wireless second device to generate selected responses. If for example wireless second device has limited graphing capabilities wireless second device may generate display signals to prompt wireless third device to generate corresponding displays. Thus wireless third device then generates resource access control signals that correspond to the allowed access. If such access includes for example using hardware or software resources of wireless second device to communicate with a communication element to download desired media content wireless second device engages in communications with communication element in a corresponding manner.

In one embodiment wireless second device includes cellular communication hardware and software which is used to support communications according to resource access control signals . In another embodiment wireless second device includes application and account related software and data that is required for communications . Accordingly wireless third device uses such application and accounted related software and data to download or access desired content from communication element . Similarly first device transmits access request message receives second access permission message engages in access related communications and generates access control signals messages all as appropriate to a specific request.

Second access permission message may be different than first access permission message . In one embodiment of the invention permissions vary according to device and or group affiliations and are tiered to give different levels of access to resources hardware software media access logic etc. . The permission tiers may be time or usage dependent as well. For example first device may have a first level of access initially and then a subsequent either higher or lower level of access subsequently.

Wireless access device also includes an application programming interface block API that defines an interface and associated logic to support for group operations as described herein. Generally API includes logic and a communications interface that support group member communications for sharing media including streaming media services and or other resources including hardware and software resources including data account and access information . Such an interface includes for example communicating with defined signals to request access to shared media for requesting shared media from another group member for uploading shared media for delivery to another group member and for storing access related data.

API includes logic to facilitate hardware resource sharing between group member devices or associated devices in one embodiment. Specifically a buffering protocol converter logic supports cross platform and protocol communications. The buffering and protocol converter is operable to buffer shared media or other content received on a first communications interface e.g. interface until transmitted on a second communications interface e.g. interface . Buffering and protocol converter is further operable to based on capabilities of at least one group member device that is to receive the shared media or other content convert a format or protocol used to deliver the media content to a format or protocol that is compatible with the capabilities of the group member device s that will receive the media content.

For example if the media content audio files received over the first communication interface is in a first format but is required to be delivered in a second format may convert the media content to the appropriate protocol. To illustrate if wireless access device is an iTunes capable device that communicates with a media source that delivers audio files in an AAC format but the requesting group member device requires .mp3 format audio files converter is operable to buffer if necessary and to convert the audio files to MP3 format prior to transmitting the shared media to the group member device requesting the shared media content.

In one embodiment wireless access device includes resource sharing logic for determining whether a device can access or share resources of device and a level of access in an embodiment in which access levels are tiered. Alternately at least a portion resource sharing logic may be included as a part of the logic of API .

For example resource sharing logic can include programmable resource sharing logic that works in cooperation with resource sharing logic stored in association with API which defines more generic resource sharing logic to support resource sharing determinations and access. Resource sharing logic also includes interfaces and signaling logic that enable other group member devices to utilize resources within wireless access device .

Wireless access device also includes group operations logic . Group operations logic generally defines group operations according to the various embodiments for accessing and sharing resources based on a group association. More specifically logic defines the creation and modification of groups including creating permanent groups until the groups are modified and temporary groups. Group operations logic also includes logic that defines what resources may be shared and any conditions that are required for such sharing to comply with digital rights management or other operational concerns. In addition to logic that defines sharing permissions other types of logic may be included. For example group operations logic could include resource sharing access logic that supports hardware and software control and operation in a resource sharing application.

Additionally wireless access device includes a memory for storing a content list of device as well as other devices of the associated groups of devices. Content and resource list is included in at least one embodiment in which the wireless access device is a primary group member having account access and control rights as discussed previously in relation to cell phone . Finally wireless access device includes group shared access content storage for storing shared media that may be accessed by group member devices. The content in storage comprises at least a portion of the content identified in content list .

In the example of wireless access device is communicatively coupled to various devices of network to support resource sharing. Thus wireless access device may engage in resource request communications to receive a resource request and in resource sharing communications with the devices of network with which it is grouped or has an association. In one embodiment the permissions defined in the resource sharing communications are tiered according to device identity and group affiliations thereby resulting in the various devices having different levels of resource access permissions. Thus if laptop transmits resource request message to wireless access device wireless access device determines what level of resource sharing is allowed for laptop and any corresponding limitations e.g. duration window of time number of accesses or uses and transmits first access permission message that specifies the determined level of resource sharing. Similarly wireless access device transmits second access permission message in response to resource request message transmitted by cell phone and transmits third access permission message in response to resource request message transmitted by PDA .

The resources requested in messages and can include hardware as well as software and account access logic and information. If a wireless access device has software and hardware required to access a specified account for media for example the request by cell phone can includes a request to utilize such software and hardware to download media using an associated account. The tiered level of allowed access may be based on the requesting device identify capabilities and or group associations. For example a first access permission message transmitted in resource sharing communications with laptop may only allow laptop to use cellular communication circuitry and associated logic of device . This permission may be further limited in time usage or duration. Thus in this situation if device includes cellular communication circuitry and logic that allows for lower cost cellular communications a user of device may be willing to allow laptop to access such resources to save money but only on a limited basis. Similarly cell phone may request access to cellular network communication circuitry and logic to place a lower cost call. Alternately in a second access permission message transmitted in resource sharing communications device may also allow cell phone to access group shared access media content stored in media content storage .

Alternately for example a PDA such as PDA with only wireless local area network or personal area network e.g. Bluetooth protocol radio transceiver elements may utilize cellular radio transceiver elements of wireless access device to communicate over a cellular network to establish a communication link with a media source to download desired media or to access desired service. Thus a third access permission message transmitted in resource sharing communications may also include permissions to allow PDA to use media account access logic and account data to download media from a remote media source. Generally resource sharing may be unlimited or may be limited according to access type resource being accessed a specified number of successful accesses or by time and may be tiered according to device and group associations or according to user input of device .

Referring to row the same iPod may request access to streaming media from the iTunes store or another media source. Here the group member device receiving the request determines from table that to facilitate the request it must share its cellular transceiver resources and must allow the requesting group member device the iPod in this example to use account and access information in order to establish a communication link with the streaming media source to successfully log in purchase the shared media and to use processing resources to download the requested media. The processing resources can include any resources necessary for manipulating storing or converting the streaming media to allow access by the iPod in a way comports with its capabilities.

Referring to row a requesting group member device is a cell phone having device ID ab7 and the request is for streaming media. Here the group member device determines that the requesting group member device only needs account and access information.

Referring to row a requesting group member device is a laptop computer having device ID xy9 and the request is for a specific shared media content that is already stored on a group member device. Here the group member device determines that the requesting group member device only needs to transmit the requested shared media content to the requesting group member device.

Referring to row a requesting group member device is the cell phone having device ID ab7 and the request is for a communication link. Here the group member device determines that the requesting group member device only needs access to transceiver circuitry and therefore grants such access.

In this embodiment of the invention of therefore the resource request identifies a shared media content that may be shared by the group member devices. Based on the characteristics of the requested shared media and the identity of the requesting device the group member device receiving the request determines what resources require sharing with the requesting device to support access to the requested shared media. Characteristics of the shared media that correspond to what resources require sharing include location or source of the requested shared media data characteristics size data rate data format etc. .

These data characteristics in relation to requesting device capabilities are implicitly associated with resources other than the shared media itself that are required to support access to the requested shared media. In the shown embodiment the group member device receiving the request stores an association of resources in relation to group member devices and shared media content similar to what is shown in Table of . Alternately the requesting device may request specific resources in association with the request for shared media which specific resources hardware software etc. are required to access receive or process the shared media.

As one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate the term substantially or approximately as may be used herein provides an industry accepted tolerance to its corresponding term and or relativity between items. Such an industry accepted tolerance ranges from less than one percent to twenty percent and corresponds to but is not limited to component values integrated circuit process variations temperature variations rise and fall times and or thermal noise. Such relativity between items ranges from a difference of a few percent to magnitude differences. As one of ordinary skill in the art will further appreciate the term operably coupled as may be used herein includes direct coupling and indirect coupling via another component element circuit or module where for indirect coupling the intervening component element circuit or module does not modify the information of a signal but may adjust its current level voltage level and or power level. Moreover the term operable to requires a device to include logic circuitry or computer instructions stored in memory or other structure that facilitates the functionality associated with such language. As one of ordinary skill in the art will also appreciate inferred coupling i.e. where one element is coupled to another element by inference includes direct and indirect coupling between two elements in the same manner as operably coupled .

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and detailed description. It should be understood however that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the invention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. As may be seen the described embodiments may be modified in many different ways without departing from the scope or teachings of the invention.

