---

title: High ZT bismuth-doped perovskite thermoelectrics
abstract: A bismuth-doped perovskite thermoelectric, comprising (Bi, La)SrTiO, wherein x is between 0.01 and 0.1, can have a high figure-of-merit, ZT.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09269880&OS=09269880&RS=09269880
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09269880
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140213
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 765 227 filed Feb. 15 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to thermoelectrics and in particular to high ZT bismuth doped perovskite thermoelectrics.

The thermoelectric effect refers to phenomena by which either a temperature difference creates an electric potential or an electric potential creates a temperature difference. Thermoelectric materials show the thermoelectric effect in a strong or convenient form. Thermoelectric performance is defined by a dimensionless figure of merit ZT ST where is electrical conductivity S m S is the Seebeck coefficient V K and is thermal conductivity W mK . Therefore by going to much higher temperatures ZT can be substantially increased. The power factor PF S can be optimized by modifying the composition and crystallinity of the material. In particular without a high degree of crystallization ZT for thermoelectric materials tends to be unacceptably low due to deleterious effects to the power factor. Low cost materials that have a sufficiently strong thermoelectric effect can be used in many applications including power generation and refrigeration.

Metal oxide ceramics have recently garnered increased interest as thermoelectric materials for high temperature energy harvesting applications. In particular perovskites including CaTiO SrTiO and BaTiOare interesting candidates for thermoelectrics because their electrical and thermal behavior can be tailored with A site and B site dopants. Further the perovskites can accommodate multiple dopant atoms that can be used to reduce phonon heat transport while simultaneously creating defect states below conduction band.

However a need remains to identify methodologies for reducing thermal conductivity without sacrificing thermopower and electrical conductivity of bulk oxides.

The present invention is directed to a bismuth doped perovskite thermoelectric comprising Bi La SrTiO wherein x is between 0.01 and 0.1 that can have a high thermoelectric figure of merit.

A perovskite structure is any material with the same type of crystal structure as calcium titanium oxide CaTiO . The perovskite structure is adopted by many oxides that have the formula ABO where A and B are two cations of very different sizes and the oxygen anion bonds to both. The ideal cubic symmetry structure has the B site cation in 6 fold coordination surrounded by an octahedron of oxygen anions and the A site cation in 12 fold cuboctahedral coordination. The relative ion size requirements for stability of the cubic structure are quite stringent so slight buckling and distortion for example via doping can produce several lower symmetry distorted versions in which the coordination numbers of the A cations B cations or both are reduced.

Strontium titanate SrTiO STO is a large band gap perovskite oxide that can be easily doped at the A and B cationic sites. shows the cubic perovskite structure for doped SrTiO with Ti occupying the B site Sr occupying the A site and divalent dopants Ca Ba and aliovalent dopants La Bi substituted at the A sites. The large orbital degeneracy of titanium d band carriers results in large power factors. See Ravichandran et al. 82 165126 2010 .

This invention is directed to the thermoelectric performance of bismuth doped perovskites and more particularly to Bi La doped SrTiOwherein the lanthanum dopant is partially substituted with bismuth. La doped SrTiO La STO is a promising n type thermoelectric material due to its combination of high thermopower S 90 V K and electrical conductivity 1200 S cm . Typically the thermal conductivity of La STO is 5 5.5 W m K at room temperature which limits its applicability as a high ZT thermoelectric. According to the present invention the replacement of small amounts of La with Bi increases the Seebeck coefficient and decreases the thermal conductivity of reduced La STO. As described below laboratory scale specimens with nominal compositions of Bi La Sr TiOand Bi La Sr TiOwere evaluated for thermal conductivity electrical conductivity and Seebeck coefficient. Additional compositions that utilize B site dopants Mn Nb Ta W V Cr etc. for titanium can also be used.

These compositions can be manufactured by many methods including solid state liquid state and gaseous phase synthesis. These materials can be made into single crystals thin films bulk ceramics or nano structures by methods including but not limited to sintering melt fusion chemical solution deposition CSD reactive sputtering physical vapor deposition atomic layer deposition chemical vapor deposition and pulsed laser deposition. In particular CSD is a technique that can produce large quantities of nanograined material quickly and inexpensively. See Brennecka et al. 93 3935 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference. However achieving fully dense crystalline films with CSD can be challenging due to remnant organic material inhibiting complete crystallization. See Aygun et al. 109 034108 2011 . As examples of the invention bulk ceramics and CSD thin films are described below

Polycrystalline nano SrTiOthin films were prepared by CSD using 0.15M chelate chemistry with methanol solvent. The films were spin cast and every layer was crystallized at 700 C. on 0001 oriented sapphire substrates. The cast films were additionally heat treated for one half hour in air at high temperature to coarsen the microstructure.

Bulk Bi La STO thermoelectrics were produced by reacting a homogenous mixture of SrCO LaO BiO and TiOat an elevated temperature 1200 C. under an oxidizing atmosphere. Bi La doped SrTiOsamples were prepared by milling the metal oxides and carbonates in ethanol and calcining under flowing Oor Ar 3 H. The calcined powders were then ground and pelletized. The ceramics were sintered and post heat treated under flowing Ar 3 Hto generate conductive n type SrTiOceramics.

The calcination atmosphere influenced the sintered microstructure. is an SEM of the microstructure of bulk La Sr TiOcalcined in O. is an SEM of the microstructure of bulk La Sr TiOcalcined in H. is an SEM of the fracture surface. Powders calcined in flowing Oreached higher densities that those calcined in Ar 3 H.

After calcination the powders were ground and compacted with or without an organic binder to form uniform ceramic green bodies. These green bodies were then heated to a sintering temperature required to facilitate densification in flowing O. Typically the sintering temperature required to densify the powder generated by calcination exceeded 1400 C. A number of sintering conditions can be used to control microstructure and thus thermoelectric performance of the final component. After sintering the dense ceramic was sectioned into the desired geometries required for testing by diamond machining and heat treated in Ar 3 Hto facilitate reduction. This reduction step is preferred to achieve the desired thermoelectric performance and can be accomplished using reducing gas mixtures of CO CO Ar H N H and the like. The duration and temperature of the reduction step is an important variable that impacts the thermoelectric performance of the material. Heat treatment of Bi La doped SrTiOin reducing atmospheres produced Bi rich and Ti rich precipitates. Precipitation of Bi and TiOcauses a decrease in carrier concentration.

Time domain thermoreflectance TDTR was used to characterize thermal conductivities of films and bulk ceramics. See Cahill et al. 75 5119 2004 and Hopkins et al. 132 081302 2010 . The amount of bismuth dopant in the La STO influences the thermoelectric performance. shows the temperature dependence of Seebeck coefficient at subambient temperatures for samples containing 10 mol. total dopant. shows a similar plot for temperatures from 300 to 550K. shows the temperature dependence of the electrical conductivity at subambient temperatures for samples containing 10 mol. total dopant. shows a similar plot for temperatures from 300 to 550K. The temperature dependent power factor can be calculated from Seebeck coefficient and electrical conductivity. shows the change in power factor as a function temperature and composition. shows the thermal conductivity of Bi doped La STO at elevated temperature as a function of bismuth doping. Bismuth effectively reduced thermal conductivity when it replaced lanthanum. Small changes in bismuth content as low as 1 reduce the thermal conductivity of the La STO from 5 5.5 W m K to 3.5 4 W m K at 300K. The dimensionless figure of merit ZT ST can be calculated from the power factor and thermal conductivity at a given temperature. shows ZT as a function of temperature temperatures from 300 to 550K for Bi La STO samples containing 10 mol. total dopant. Favorable power factor and figure of merit values were obtained for Bi La SrTiOdespite a drop in with respect to La SrTiO. As a result of the higher thermopower S and lower thermal conductivity k the composition Bi La Sr TiOhas a ZT 0.10 compared to ZT 0.15 for La STO. Lower thermal conductivity will be important to realize compact modules high power density with very high T values. High achievable T will provide higher power modules in a smaller volume which makes control of thermal conductivity necessary.

A Jonker analysis enables the determination of electrical properties from which the maximum achievable PF can be predicted. shows a Jonker plot of S vs. log . See J. Ravichandran et al. 83 035101 2011 and S. Lee et al. 79 134110 2009 . shows a plot of PF vs. log . Post sintering reduction conditions of Bi La SrTiOcontributed heavily to S and the resulting power factors.

The thermoelectric performance of the Bi La SrTiOfor various bismuth concentrations Is summarized at 300K in Table 1 and at 500K in Table 2.

The present invention has been described as high ZT bismuth doped bulk perovskite thermoelectrics. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

