---

title: Electronic testing device
abstract: Systems and methods for cabling verification may include one or more operations including, but not limited to: receiving floor plan data representing a floor plan of a premises; receiving at least one user input specifying a location of at least one cabling endpoint relative to the floor plan; receiving at least one user input selecting at least one cabling verification test for the at least one cabling endpoint; receiving one or more cabling verification test results for the at least one cabling endpoint obtained by at least one testing device; and updating at least one database element associated with the at least one cabling endpoint and maintained by the cloud-based server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09400301&OS=09400301&RS=09400301
owner: WOW Insites LLC
number: 09400301
owner_city: Elkhorn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140331
---
The present application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. Nos. 61 806 554 filed Mar. 29 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference and 61 877 813 filed Sep. 13 2013 which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure generally relates to the field of cabling verification and more particularly to low voltage circuit testing devices.

Conventional cable testing devices are utilized by Information Technology Technicians around the world every day to test Cat 5 and other cables that facilitate data communications in buildings. Every cable must be tested when installed and or modified to verify that it is working properly. Each test is conducted from one termination point usually in a wall jack to a second termination point often in a patch panel in a data computer closet . Conventional cable testing devices are costly heavy and provide limited functionality.

When testing has been completed on each connection and results marked for each wall connection technicians must bring equipment and floor plans back to the office where a CAD technician will update the CAD floor plan and cabling diagram for the facility. This process leaves room for human error or worse yet lost records.

Systems and methods for cabling verification may include one or more operations including but not limited to receiving floor plan data representing a floor plan of a premises receiving at least one user input specifying a location of at least one cabling endpoint relative to the floor plan receiving at least one user input selecting at least one cabling verification test for the at least one cabling endpoint receiving one or more cabling verification test results for the at least one cabling endpoint obtained by at least one testing device and updating at least one database element associated with the at least one cabling endpoint and maintained by the cloud based server.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not necessarily restrictive of the present disclosure. The accompanying drawings which are incorporated in and constitute a part of the specification illustrate subject matter of the disclosure. Together the descriptions and the drawings serve to explain the principles of the disclosure.

Reference will now be made in detail to the subject matter disclosed which is illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

Referring to a cabling testing system may include a first testing device and a second testing device . The testing device and the testing device may respectively include a power source e.g. a battery one or more display elements e.g. LED indicators LCD displays and the like one or more ports e.g. data cable jacks such as RJ 45 jacks wire clamps and the like and a processing device e.g. a microprocessor configured for transceiving signals via the ports and performing one or more circuit and or network connectivity verification tests and generating testing results e.g. detected voltages on a cable network connectivity data e.g. IP addresses bit rates Packet Captures Network Scans Network Mapping DNS resolution DHCP PING TraceRoute IPerf IPv4 and IPv6 etc. associated with one or more networked devices connected to a cable and the like . The testing device may be a passive device configured to simply return test signals received at a port to the testing device . In another embodiment the testing device may be an add on device connectable e.g. wirelessly or via a connecting data cable to existing network connectivity testing equipment. In another embodiment the display elements of the testing device e.g. an LCD display screen may be omitted and any display operations associated with the cable testing and or results may be provided via a mobile device as further described below. Both the testing device and testing device may be equipped with removable sleeves which can be color coded. The cases of the testing device and testing device may be configured to be coupled e.g. snapped together . The incorporation of the eyelet and belt clip allows easy transfer and operational use.

The testing device may include a heavy duty e.g. multi core processing device . This may allow for testing on a Gigabit Ethernet cable . Also a heavy duty processing device may allow simultaneous operation of multiple applications. The testing device may include a Linux operating system embedded hardware server. Using a combination of the features of Linux OS The testing device may be configured to receive firmware updates by BLUETOOTH and or a network connection.

Upon connection of the testing device and the testing device to the outlet port and the patch panel port respectively the testing device and the testing device may perform various pairing operations prior to the initiation of cable testing. It may be the case that the testing device may include an associated identifier e.g. a device number serial number authentication code etc. maintained in memory. The associated identifier may be a globally unique identifier. When the testing device and the testing device are connected via a cable the testing device may query the testing device for its associated identifier. The testing device may transmit its associated identifier to the testing device e.g. in the form of a voltage modulated serial communication which may verify the validity of the associated identifier e.g. compare the associated identifier to a list of known valid identifiers perform one or more checksum operations etc. prior to the commencement of cable testing operations. Once the associated identifier has been verified the testing device and the testing device may commence cable testing operations.

In order to conduct a cabling verification test on a cable e.g. low voltage CAT3 CAT5 CAT5E CAT6 UTP STP SSTP and or FTP data cables and or standard voltage electrical wiring forming a portion of a electrical network within a premises e.g. a home office school and the like the ports of the testing device and the testing device may be coupled to a patch panel port of a patch panel in a data closet and an outlet port of an outlet respectively via patch cables .

A cabling test e.g. cable integrity tests network connectivity tests associated with one or more networked devices e.g. routers switches end devices etc. may be initiated by a technician whereby the testing device may generate one or more test signals which may be transmitted via the cable to the testing device and or another connected network device. The testing device may receive the test signals and transmit response signals via the cable . The testing device may receive those response signals and perform one or more processing operations via the processing device to verify whether or not the cable is transmitting data as intended e.g. that the cable is connected properly that the component wires of the cable have been terminated correctly without being crossed all the wires in the cable are all transmitting data etc. . When data is obtained from a test it may be stored in the master device stored in the mobile device and may be stored in cloud based storage. Data may be further transferred to a personal computer. With location and time stamping data can be verified and authenticated. It is contemplated that the tests may be stored time stamped to generate a historical data set over a network lifetime such that cable integrity may be verified over the course of its useful life. Further data may be aggregated for comparison with other facilities.

In conventional testing systems a technician may be required to be present at both ends of a cable under test in order to place the testing device and the testing device properly. For example after a first cable is tested a technician must review the facility layout drawing coordinate via walkie talkie or other mechanism with another technician and then move on to a second cable . It is critical that both technicians are testing the same cable and communicating constantly otherwise the tests will be ineffective. After a test on an outlet port of a outlet is complete a technician must move the testing device to an outlet port of a outlet at a new location of a cable and another technician must move the testing device to the next corresponding patch panel port in the patch panel on the other end of the cable .

Upon completing all the tests for all wires at a facility technicians may be required to connect the testing device with a computer for downloading test data. This may require technicians to return to their office where the storage computer is located. They must then physically hook a cable up to the tester and download all results. After the results are downloaded they can be labeled manually by another technician in a spreadsheet to show the facility where the test took place the date of the test the test result and the like. After reviewing the building drawings and importing the data if an error is identified or a cable missed the technician must be sent back to the job site to conduct the missed tests. A final CAD drawing may be generated showing all cables that have been tested and labeled.

Referring now to in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure the cabling testing system may include at least one mobile device e.g. a touch screen enabled smart phone or tablet computer laptop computer application specific device and the like . The mobile device may be wirelessly couplable to a wireless transceiver of the testing device and or the testing device not shown .

In one embodiment mobile device the testing device and or the testing device may communicate via respective transceivers implementing a BLUETOOTH protocol. While BLUETOOTH may be employed other wireless communication protocols may also be utilized such as Wi Fi RFID Infrared peer to peer and the like. Wireless signals transceived between the mobile device and the testing device and or testing device may include control signals provided by the mobile device to control cable testing operations by the testing device testing device or data signals indicative of cable testing results provided by the testing device testing device to the mobile device .

In another embodiment the mobile device may be operably coupled to the testing device and or testing device via a data cable. In yet another embodiment the mobile device itself may provide the testing signals transmitted to the outlet port via a dongle interface or simple data cable physically linking e.g. via a wired connection mobile device to a patch panel port not shown .

A cable testing application resident on the mobile device may have the ability to test multiple cables simultaneously. For example as shown in the testing device may include multiple ports which may be simultaneously coupled to multiple outlet ports . The testing device may be successively connected to each of the patch panel ports corresponding to the outlet ports without having to modify the connections of the patch cables at an outlet .

Further the mobile device may implement Real Time Location Services RTLS to simultaneously associate coordinates of the mobile device with cable test results as they occur. RTLS may be implemented through the use of any available standards based location services platform including but not limited to GPS Wireless LAN Cellular Services Radio Frequency Identification and Infrared Signal. It is contemplated that other additional location identification mechanisms may also be employed particularly for use in the premises .

The cable testing application of the mobile device may connect to a cloud based network e.g. the internet using the built in wireless capabilities of the mobile device . Once a secure connection has been established and verified the software application may upload and synchronize each test result to a related proprietary cloud based database residing on a cloud based server device e.g. a web server accessible over a web browser or application implemented on the mobile device . The cloud based server device may implement at least one cloud based application accessible by a mobile device and or one or more additional network devices such as a laptop or desktop computer .

The computer may access the cloud based application of the cloud based server device via web browser software resident on the computer running applications e.g. Java applets or other applications which may include application programming interfaces API s to more sophisticated applications such as cloud based application running on remote servers that provide the cloud based service cloud based server device as an example embodiment.

In an example embodiment through the web browser software a user can use a computer to log on to cloud based services e.g. by the web browser software resident on the computer communicating with cloud based server device to access a cloud based application . After logging on to the cloud based application the user may create edit save and delete files on cloud based server device and may establish set up or change edit various options such as user preferences and or system settings and or may receive or download software e.g. operating system or other software or software updates various data files or media files user preferences and or system settings and other information previously stored on the cloud based server device via the cloud based application running on the cloud based server device .

The cloud based application implemented on the cloud based server device may provide various interfaces facilitating cabling testing. Referring to exemplary representations of such interfaces and their associated functional operations are presented. With the ability to access data via cloud based storage it is contemplated that floor diagrams building specs and other information may be accessed and the data from tests may be quickly integrated by technicians in the field. The cabling testing system of the present disclosure may allow management of multiple facilities by allowing the following access to real time data diagrams enhance management and productivity of technicians e.g. tracking of technicians and ability to schedule technicians to appropriate locations depict firewall locations enable virtual testing and testing validation. As shown in the cloud based application may be access protected. As such the cloud based application may present user login interface prompting a user for an authentication e.g. a user name and password in order to further access the functionality of the cloud based application. Differing access levels may provide different access to the functionality of the cloud based application . For example client and project creation operations may only be available to users having administrative privileges. Project specification and configuration operations may be available to project managers and technicians. Project status query operations may be available to clients.

Referring to following authorization of a user the cloud based application may present a dashboard interface . The dashboard interface may include project status data e.g. most recent activity date one or more cable testing completion level indicators etc. associated with one or more cable testing projects list . The dashboard interface may further include one or more actuatable interface elements. For example the dashboard interface may include a Create New Client interface element . Actuation of the Create New Client interface element may transition the cloud based application to present a client creation interface as shown in . The client creation interface may allow a user to add a new client reference to a cable testing database maintained by the cloud based server device as shown in . The client creation interface may present a Client Name data entry field whereby a user may enter a client name. Clicking or pressing a Create interface element may cause the addition of a new client to the cable testing database .

Referring again to the dashboard interface may further include a Create New Project interface element . Actuation of the Create New Project interface element may transition the cloud based application to present a project creation interface as shown in . The project creation interface may allow a user to add a new cable testing project to a given client in the cable testing database maintained by the cloud based server device as shown in . The project creation interface may present a pull down client list whereby a user may select an existing client . The project creation interface may further present a Project Name data entry field whereby a user may enter a new project name. The project creation interface may further provide for the importation of design file representative of a floor plan of a premises subject to a cable testing project. For example as shown in a floor plan may include a graphical representation e.g. a digital CAD file of one or more environmental or structural features corresponding to analogous features of the premises . The floor plan may be captured e.g. via a camera and or uploaded from a mobile device and or the computer .

Following importation of the floor plan into a project the cloud based application may load the floor plan and provide a port addition interface as shown in to allow for the specification of locations of outlets and or patch panels on the floor plan . The port addition interface may present a client selection menu e.g. a pull down menu including a listing of all available clients in the cable testing database and a project selection field e.g. a pull down menu including a listing of all projects associated with a client previously selected via the client selection menu a text entry field and the like . Following selection of a particular client and project an Add Ports interface element may be activated transitioning the port addition interface to present an end point specification interface as shown in .

The end point specification interface may present an endpoint specification field where a name of a port to be added may be entered. Further details regarding an endpoint to be added may be specified by one or more endpoint detail menus . For example an endpoint type e.g. an outlet patch panel etc. and a number of ports associated with that specified endpoint type may be selected.

Referring to the end point specification interface may further present a port type specification menu . For example the port type specification menu may include a pull down menu listing selectable port types e.g. data voice etc. for a given port of an endpoint.

Following creation and specification of one or more endpoints via the end point specification interface the end point specification interface may transition to an endpoint positioning interface . As shown in the endpoint positioning interface may include endpoint selection menu associated with previously created endpoints e.g. Outlet Outlet Outlet Outlet Outlet etc . Selection of a given endpoint from the endpoint selection menu may result in the display of an endpoint icon representing the selected endpoint within the floor plan e.g. the selection of the radio button associated with Outlet results in the display of an Outlet icon in the floor plan . Once the endpoint icon is included in the floor plan its position may be moved relative to the features e.g. walls of the floor plan in order to indicate the desired location of the associated endpoint within the premises modeled by the floor plan . Further a portion of each endpoint icon e.g. an exterior ring may be color coded to correspond with other endpoints on the same network or linked to a common patch panel. Still further each endpoint icon may also be color coded to reflect its testing status e.g. red indicates a failed test associated with an endpoint green indicates a successful test associated with an endpoint and grey indicates that no test has been performed on an endpoint . Still further hovering over an endpoint icon e.g. with a mouse cursor may result in the display of endpoint details e.g. endpoint name port types port numbers etc. associated with an associated endpoint via a pop up window.

Following completion of port addition for a given project one or more cabling tests may be specified for a given port. As shown in following selection of a given endpoint e.g. double clicking on a endpoint icon as shown in and B a port testing specification interface may be provided displaying the port names for a selected endpoint and presenting a test type selection menu . The test type selection menu may be a pull down menu including various possible tests for an endpoint e.g. CAT5e testing CAT6 testing etc. . Selection of a test type adds that particular test to a testing queue associated with the endpoint.

Following completion of port addition and cabling test specification a project may be assigned to one or more project managers and or one or more technicians tasked with performing the cable testing operations. As shown in the cloud based application may further present a personnel specification interface . The personnel specification interface may allow for the specification of personnel having access to a given project.

In association with the specification of endpoint configurations e.g. via a computer as described above this endpoint configuration data maintained by the cable testing database may be pushed to mobile device e.g. substantially in real time from the cloud based server device over the cloud based network . Once received at the mobile device the mobile device may employ a cable testing application resident on the mobile device to perform one or more cable testing operations on at least one cable via the testing device and the testing device .

Referring to the cable testing application may present a testing interface via a display device e.g. a touch screen display of a mobile device . The testing interface may include a selectable project status interface element . Upon activation of the project status interface element the cable testing application may present a project status interface . The project status interface may include information corresponding to that found in the dashboard interface of the cloud based application . For example the project status interface may include the cable testing projects list and the cable testing completion level indicators . Referring to upon selection e.g. detection of a user touch to a portion of the touch screen display corresponding to a project of a given cable testing project from the project status interface the cable testing application may present an endpoint selection interface displaying the floor plan associated with the project and including the endpoint icons representative of locations of endpoints previously specified for the project.

Referring to upon selection of a given endpoint icon from the endpoint selection interface the cable testing application may present a port testing interface . The port testing interface may display a port indicator indicating a port currently subject to test a test indicator indicating the test to be performed on the port and a wiring diagram representative of the cabling schematic associated with the port cable subject to test. Upon activation of a Test interface element of the port testing interface as shown in the mobile device may transmit one or more control signals to a testing device coupled to a patch panel port cable outlet port subject to testing causing the testing device and the testing device to perform one or more cable testing operations on the outlet port as described above.

Following completion of the cable testing operations by the testing device and the testing device the testing device may transmit cable testing result data signals to the mobile device .

As shown in a test result indicator element of the port testing interface may provide a visual indication of the result of the test on the selected port. For example as shown in in the case of an unsuccessful test the test result indicator element may display FAIL and turn red. Further the portion of the wiring diagram associated with the failure may also be indicated e.g. colored red and an indication of crossed wires displayed . Alternately as shown in in the case of an successful test the test result indicator element may display PASSED and turn green. Further the wiring diagram may indicate correct connection of the respective color coded wire pairs of the cable . While the test failure depicted in is shown with respect to a failure between a designed conductor pair the cable testing signals transceived between the testing device and the testing device may be provided in a manner other than with respect to the designed pair wise configuration of the cable. For example each upstream conductor of a cable may be tested in a round robin manner with any or all other downstream conductors to perform a comprehensive test of all wire pair combinations. Also as noted above it may be the case that the testing device includes one or more display elements . These display elements may be indicative of a cable testing result. For example the testing device may include one or more display elements that turn red in response to an unsuccessful cabling test and or one or more display elements that turn green in response to a successful test.

In addition to performing testing operations the cable testing application may further provide test documentation functionality. For example as shown in the cable testing application may present a test documentation interface . The test documentation interface may include a test notes field where a technician may enter text based notes associated with a cable test for the selected port. Further the test documentation interface may include an Add Photo interface element . Activation of the Add Photo interface element may cause the mobile device to either open a native stored photo video gallery maintained in memory of the mobile device to allow for selection of a previously obtained photo or video associated with the port subject to testing or to open a native camera application of the mobile device to allow for the capture of a new photo or video associated with the port subject to testing.

Following completion of one or more testing operations by the mobile device via the cable testing application the mobile device may transmit the test results and documentation data along with relevant metadata e.g. time stamps for cabling tests GPS coordinates associated with the mobile device obtained at the time of the test etc. via the cloud based network e.g. substantially in real time in order to update the cable testing database maintained by the cloud based server device . After the data of the cable testing database is updated when accessing of the cable testing database by a computer via the cloud based application the cloud based application will reflect the updated testing data associated with a given project. For example as previously shown in the dashboard interface may be updated to include a current most recent activity date and current cable testing completion level indicators . Further as shown in the cloud based application may further present a Recent Activity interface . The Recent Activity interface may provide regarding the most recent account activity e.g. creation of a new client or project or testing activity e.g. pass fail status of a recent port test with associated technician notes photos and videos having occurred since the last time the dashboard interface was accessed. For example the Recent Activity interface may include a port specific test status indicator a text documentation indicator and or a photo video documentation indicator . As shown in respectively hovering e.g. with a mouse cursor over the text documentation indicator or the photo video documentation indicator may result in the display e.g. via a pop up window of documentation data associated with the related port test.

Referring to at any time during a cable testing project or at the completion of a project the cloud based application may be queried for a project summary report interface . The project summary report interface may include printing and download options to obtain project summary files which may be provided to a customer to provide a clear snapshot of the progress of a cable testing project.

As noted above and shown at a testing device connected into a segment can perform a variety of advanced network tests for a network including one or more networked devices . For example Advanced Network testing may include Packet Captures Network Scans Network Mapping DNS resolution DHCP PING TraceRoute IPerf IPv4 and IPv6. Following completion of the tests results may be uploaded to the cloud based server device via a mobile device linked to the testing device .

In another embodiment a first testing device and a second testing device each having wireless connectivity and advanced processing capabilities may be coupled to each other. In such a configuration testing across a cable may include speed packet loss latency and jitter.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of random access memory and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch or optical electrical equipment . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore it is to be understood that the invention is defined by the appended claims.

