---

title: Spherical integrated remote-control locomotive excursor
abstract: A spherical integrated remote-control locomotive excursor (SIRCLE) is provided for remote reconnaissance. The SIRCLE includes a spherical shell, a chassis within the shell and a set of wheels between the shell and chassis. The spherical shell has inner and outer surfaces. The chassis contains a platform, an electric motor and a power supply. The set of wheels are driven by the motor and supported by the chassis. The wheels engage the inner surface and turn in response to the motor. The shell rolls by turning the wheels to propel the SIRCLE.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09152148&OS=09152148&RS=09152148
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09152148
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140428
---
The invention is a Continuation claims priority to and incorporates by reference in its entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 068 913 filed May 4 2011 which is a Continuation in Part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 386 179 filed Apr. 10 2009 issued Jun. 21 2011 as U.S. Pat. No. 7 963 350.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to mobile reconnaissance platforms. In particular this invention describes remotely or autonomously controlled spherical vehicles equipped with infrared sensors for local ground level missions.

Currently deployed robotic reconnaissance vehicles are designed to patrol areas in which hostile response to military presence may be suspected but difficult to identify by location such as sniper attacks from high windows in an urban setting. Such vehicles may be constrained by considerations of speed e.g. tracks obstacle traversal e.g. wheels and or maneuverability. In addition the use of visual cameras may be of marginal utility for night time or other conditions of low visibility surveillance.

Conventional unmanned reconnaissance platforms yield disadvan tages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular a self propelled spherical integrated remote control locomotive excursor SIRCLE is provided herein for robotic travel. The SIRCLE includes a spherical shell a carriage or chassis within the shell and a set of wheels between the shell and chassis. The spherical shell has inner and outer surfaces.

The chassis contains a platform an electric motor and a power supply. The set of wheels are driven by the motor and supported by the chassis. The wheels engage the inner surface and turn in response to the motor. Turning the wheels rolls the shell to propel the SIRCLE.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Various exemplary embodiments of the spherical infrared robotic vehicle SIRV are described with reference to the drawings. A variant without infrared sensing capability can be labeled a spherical integrated remote control locomotive excursor SIRCLE . The SIRV and SIRCLE each provides a cage chassis for mounting propulsion power and sensor devices and a spherical shell to enable self propelled locomotion along a terrain. A plurality of infrared cameras aligned to view several directions represents a preferred embodiment of the SIRV.

Optionally an adjustable trim ballast slides along a longitudinal rail mounted on the platform to shift center of gravity such as when additional momentum may be necessary to traverse an obstacle such as a depression in the road being traveled and or to tilt the platform . The ballast can also serve as a parking brake to balance the SIRV in a neutral position during stowage.

The platform supports a plurality of infrared sensors such as infrared cameras for visual imaging of objects that emit or reflect electro magnetic radiation in the near infrared spectrum wavelengths between 0.9 m and 1.7 m . For various exemplary embodiments a quartet of four such cameras can be arranged in a cruciform to point and thereby capture images in four separate directions. The cameras include a forward unit an aft unit a starboard unit and a port unit obscured behind the starboard unit .

Each camera unit includes an aperture lens for receiving infrared radiation. The chassis can include apertures aligned with the lenses to permit imaging. Alternatively the chassis can comprise material transparent at near infrared wavelengths such that the chassis forms a substantially integral aperture that encompasses that structure. Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that the four cameras shown in cruciform pattern are merely exemplary as sensors and not limiting either by number or by arrangement. The cage secures the cameras from lateral displacement while offering views unobstructed by the cage s structural elements.

The near infrared NIR thermal infrared imager by Infrared Cameras Incorporated ICI of Beaumont Tex. 77705 represents an exemplary camera for purposes of an infrared imaging sensor in the SIRV . The NIR imager incorporates an indium gallium arsenide InGaAs detector with a 320 256 array format at a 30 Hz frame rate in snapshot mode. The NIR imager has a spectral response between 0.9 m and 1.7 m and uses power input of 6 Vsupplied by a 2.00 mm jack. Each NIR imager has length width and height of 3.7 2.5 2.1 94 mm 63.5 mm 53.3 mm and a mass of 12.4 oz 350 g without the lens.

The NIR imager employs RS232 protocol for communication and uses passive convection cooling. The NIR imager operates with typical power dissipation of 3 W and is resistant to laser blinding. With the quartet of cameras mounted in cruciform pattern on the platform with views substantially per pendicular to each other and facing slightly upward e.g. zenith of about 5 to 10 extends about 10 inches 0.25 m . Thus the SIRV could be contained within the one foot diameter ball for the exterior shell . Artisans of ordinary skill will recognize that alternative infrared sensors or other imagers can be sub stituted for the cameras without departing from the scope of the invention.

A set of eight wheels separate the chassis from the shell . The wheels rotate on axles mounted to the chassis both above and below the platform . On the lower portion of the chassis wheels include aft starboard aft port forward starboard and forward port that roll along the bottom interior surface of the shell . The shell travels along a ground surface such as a road by rolling along as the wheels propel the SIRV forward or rearward .

On the upper portion of the chassis wheels include aft starboard aft port forward starboard and forward port that roll along the top interior surface of the shell . The lower forward wheels and upper aft wheels can be steered. Each wheel can be equipped with a rubber tire for traction along the interior surface of the shell . As illustrated the wheels each have a diameter of about two inches 5.1 cm . Turning the wheels on the shell s interior surface causes the shell to roll along the ground in the direction of travel.

In various exemplary embodiments the chassis further includes an electric motor equipped with a clutch that switchably turns a drive transmission and a power package that contains an electrical power source and a motor controller. Electrical power can be supplied by internally packaged chemical batteries including commercially available types connected in series.

An exemplary type of battery that could be suitable would be the 2200 series Nickel Cadmium NiCad cells provided by SR Batteries Inc. at Box 287 Bellport N.Y. 11713. Each cell has a 0.9 inch 23 mm diameter and 1.69 inch 43 mm length weighing 2.1 oz 60 g producing 1.25 Vat 2.2 amp hours and with 5 impedance. Six such NiCad cells can be arranged as three abreast at one diameter high and two across to produce 7.5 V with voltage regulation to the NIR imager supply requirements .

A communication and control unit with antenna may be disposed within the space between the cameras . Alternatively the unit may be suspended from the ceiling of the chassis or other arrangement based on design selection. The unit includes a controller for the motor and or the clutch as well as for the steering system. The unit may also control disposition of the ballast .

The unit also includes either a transceiver for receiving instruc tions from an operator and transmitting image signals for reconnaissance or else a recorder to store such images for subsequent retrieval. An operator can optionally control the SIRV by issuing radio commands to the unit via a remote control device such as used for model aircraft. Alternatively the unit can be equipped with an internal processor to enable autonomous locomotion and or a global positioning system GPS receiver for navigating to a preselected destination.

Guide rollers shown on port and starboard sides can be secured to the chassis as a buffer to the shell from lateral translation from traveling on uneven surfaces. The power package may include NiCad batteries although other forms of electrical power storage may alternatively be incorporated for the SIRV . The chassis can include apertures that provide a portal for the lenses through which to view external infrared images. The apertures can constitute vacant openings or else a transparent cover.

The transmission includes a vertical bevel gear rotated counterclockwise as denoted by arrow by the motor and a transverse bevel gear rotated clockwise as denoted by arrow . The bevel gear connects to the drive shaft to rotate the lower aft set so that the lower starboard wheels rotate in counterclockwise direction respectively denoted by arrows .

The wheels under the chassis also include the lower forward set with starboard and port wheels connected at pivot joints to a steering axis . A steering system pivots the joints to angularly shift the forward set . The steering system can constitute a rack and pinion arrangement or alternatively a scotch yoke to convert circular motion from a rotating motor into linear motion to turn the joints .

A complimentary upper aft set of wheels above the chassis also pivotably shifts contemporaneously with the lower forward set so that the SIRV turns to port upon command from the unit . The frame support for the wheels that connect to the chassis may include tensile springs. This suspension system provides substantially uniform compression by the wheels against the interior surface of the shell .

The chassis can be composed of lightweight material with sufficient structural strength to support an estimated twenty pounds mass including cameras and attached wheels . Apertures aligned with the cruciform axes can be incorporated to avoid blocking infrared radiation to the camera lenses . Alternatively the chassis can be composed of material substantially transparent in the near infrared spectrum to encompass an integral aperture for the cameras . The shell can be composed of an appropriate material substantially transparent in the near infrared spectrum such as alumina. With an estimated shell mass of about thirteen pounds the one foot diameter SIRV for the configuration shown can be estimated to have a total mass of about thirty five or forty pounds 16 18 kg .

Such infrared transparent materials include but are not limited to aluminum oxide AlO including the alpha crystalline state called sapphire magnesium fluoride MgF calcium fluoride CaF barium fluoride BaF and possibly silicon Si . Optionally a coating produced by diamond vapor deposition can be disposed on the exterior surface to reduce surface wear on the shell .

In particular alumina aluminum oxide at 5 mm thickness 0.2 inch has transparencies at least sixty percent for wavelengths exceeding 1.3 m and about eight percent for wavelengths around 2.3 m. Alumina has an index of refraction of about n 21.8 and a density of about 250 lb ft 4 g cm . An alumina shell with a thickness of 0.2 inch has a mass of about 13 pounds 5.8 kg .

Although the thickness of the shell material and spherical lens focus distortion may degrade optical quality from ideal imagery field intelligence can sometimes benefit from even marginal reconnaissance resolution in regions of operationally difficult or problematic access. Moreover infrared cameras typically intended to detect small temperature differentiation can be sufficient for determining presence of endothermic creatures or other indications of interest even with degraded optical conditions.

The SIRV can thereby aid in the collection of visual field intelligence such as within an urban area especially under low visibility conditions with considerable agility. Due to its high relative speed and maneuverability compared to other robotic platforms the SIRV can accomplish such local ground level reconnaissance missions preferably without detection but minimally without exposing military personnel to hostile attack.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

