---

title: Apparatus and methods for providing interactive extras
abstract: Apparatus and methods are provided to implement a technique for providing supplemental information and interactive features for content, such as a movie. In one implementation, a content provider builds a package of information and interactive features (“interactive extras”) using a defined structure and API (application programming interface). The content provider gives the package of extras to several distributors (or provides access to some or all of the package through a network resource). Each distributor uses the package in the distributor's content distribution platform or system by conforming to the API for the package. In this way, the content provider can provide the same package of extras to multiple distributors that may have incompatible platforms without having to build custom packages for each platform. This allows the content provider to build the package once and also provides a more consistent experience across the distributor services.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09615145&OS=09615145&RS=09615145
owner: SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC.
number: 09615145
owner_city: Culver City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141020
---
This application claims benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 892 974 filed Oct. 18 2013 entitled Supplemental Content Information and Features assigned to the assignee of the present application and herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention relates to the field of content marketing and in particular to systems and methods for providing extras in retailer and other media distribution channels.

Users have long been interested in obtaining additional information about their favorite movies. Consequently the vast majority of physical discs containing entertainment content and titles e.g. DVDs and Blu ray discs contain such additional content including trailers bonus scenes deleted scenes director s commentaries and the like. Additional content has even been incorporated such as games associated with the main item of content and links to online resources pertaining to the content that viewers might also be interested in. Provision of such additional content on physical discs is by well known techniques and employ on screen menus which may be specialized to the content and which are generally familiar for viewers to follow.

Online distribution of movies television and other such entertainment content has likewise proliferated. In some conventional online distribution systems a digital service provider just sells access to movies and TV shows delivering a stream or download of the title with no interactivity. Some systems do allow for extras but not interoperability or compatibility for the extras. For example iTunes Apple Inc. has a service called iTunes Extras but the same constitutes a custom format. A content provider can build a package of extras for iTunes extras and can deliver the same to iTunes along with a movie but the same is limited to the iTunes platform.

This Background is provided to introduce a brief context for the Summary and Detailed Description that follow. This Background is not intended to be an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter nor be viewed as limiting the claimed subject matter to implementations that solve any or all of the disadvantages or problems presented above.

Apparatus and methods according to present principles extend the provision of additional information and content e.g. interactive extras to online distribution systems and in particular in a way that is applicable across multiple disparate distributor platforms. In particular content providers can author an interactive extras experience once and then have that interactive extras package be accessible to multiple retailers and their platforms. The content provider need not create different proprietary interactive packages for each service provider that wants to have their own experience and or for each title having interactive extras. In this way present principles allow the extension of providing extras to online distribution systems in a way that is modular and extensible.

In one implementation a content provider builds a package of information and interactive features extras using a defined structure and API application programming interface . The content provider gives the package of extras to several distributors or provides access to some or all of the package through a network resource . Each distributor uses the package in the distributor s content distribution platform or system by conforming to the API for the package. In this way the content provider can provide the same package of extras to multiple distributors that may have incompatible platforms without having to build custom packages for each platform. This allows the content provider to build the package just once and also provides a more consistent experience across the distributor services.

In one implementation of the new system a content provider such as a movie studio builds an enhanced playback experience that can be integrated or used with a digital service provider s native service and player using APIs application programming interfaces . As multiple content providers adopt the structure and APIs the format can help to standardize interactivity around movies and TV shows.

In another implementation a content provider uses multiple extras packages together. For example a content provider builds an extras package for a particular movie. The content provider also builds a secondary extras package e.g. an extras package for a genre associated with the movie for a set of movies associated with the director of the movie and the like. Both extras packages are accessible through the distributor s platform. The genre package would also be available for other movies within the same genre. Similarly the content provider can build extras packages for other features related to the movie such as director actor series subject matter time period etc. These secondary packages provide an additional layer of modularity reusability and customization e.g. choosing different secondary packages automatically for different distributors or users such as selecting trailer packages based on region or date . It can also be easier to update the content for an extras packages by updating related secondary packages especially in a network environment . In one implementation the extras packages use the same API or an additional common API to interact with one another. For example the content provider gives a distributor access to the movie extras package but access to the secondary extras packages is provided through the movie extras package and is transparent to the distributor. In another variation parts of a movie extras package can be replaced by parts of secondary package such as scenes or dialogue or audio track.

In another implementation a distributor accesses or provides additional extras that are not provided in the content provider s package. For example a distributor may create its own extras package and or may provide or access a third party extras package e.g. from an advertiser . Similar to the secondary packages above these packages can also operate beside or with one another and or the content provider s package s .

In one aspect the invention is directed towards a server based method for creating a data file constituting an interactive extras package the data file configured such that interactive extras defined by the interactive extras package are accessible across multiple server platforms the interactive extras pertaining to a main content item a distribution format being defined for the interactive extras package the distribution format defined by distribution format data the distribution format data having been transmitted to at least one media sharing server constituting a server platform including on a server creating an interactive extras package the interactive extras package defining one or more interactive features pertaining to a main content item on the server adapting the interactive extras package to a distribution format the distribution format defined by distribution format data such that the interactive extras package is configured to be integrated into a media sharing application operated on a media sharing server and transmitting the interactive extras package to at least one media sharing server operating the media sharing application the media sharing server having previously received the distribution format data the media sharing server having integrated a distribution format defined by the distribution format data into the media sharing application such that the interactive extras may be displayed by the media sharing application without further modification.

Implementations of the invention may include one or more of the following. The distribution format may be defined by an API and the format may be implemented in a hypertext markup language. The method may further include on a server creating a secondary interactive extras package the secondary interactive extras package defining one or more secondary interactive features pertaining to a category on the server adapting the secondary interactive extras package to a distribution format the distribution format defined by distribution format data such that the secondary interactive extras package is configured to be integrated into a media sharing application operated on a media sharing server on the server associating one or more content items with the category and transmitting the secondary interactive extras package to the at least one media sharing server such that the secondary interactive extras may be displayed by the media sharing application without further modification. The secondary interactive extras package may be configured for interoperability with the interactive extras package may be configured to provide an update to the interactive extras package and or may replace a portion of the interactive extras package.

In another aspect the invention is directed towards a method for providing access to interactive extras pertaining to a content item including receiving a login request from a user computing environment to a media sharing application operating on a media sharing server receiving authentication credentials at the media sharing server of a user from the user computing environment upon successful authentication allowing access to one or more content items according to a user account associated with the received authentication credentials the allowing access including allowing access to a player component operated by the media sharing application for playback of the one or more content items receiving a request from the user computing environment to access interactive extras pertaining to the one or more content items providing partial control from the media sharing application to an interactive extras application the partial control including control of at least the player component and control of an interactive extras feature receiving a request to terminate access to the interactive extras and receiving control at the media sharing application from the interactive extras application including control over the player component.

Implementations of the invention may include one or more of the following. The providing partial control from the media sharing application to the interactive extras application may include providing a user interface to provide access to one or more features within the interactive extras application. The method may further include receiving distribution format data and adapting the media sharing application to the distribution format data such that the interactive extras may be incorporated within the media sharing application as ancillary content to the one or more content items without further modifying the media sharing application. The distribution format may include an API and the adapting may include integrating the API into the media sharing application. The method may further include receiving a request from the user computing environment to access secondary interactive extras pertaining to a category of the one or more content items and downloading or accessing a secondary interactive extras package pertaining to the category requested. The category may be a genre. The secondary interactive extras package may modify the interactive extras application. The interactive extras application may include a page having links to one or more interactive extras and or may be an application allowing access to a set of functions within an API. The method may further include updating the interactive extras application. The interactive extras application may include a tool to share information with other users through a network as well as a tool to search information related to the one or more content items.

In yet another aspect the invention is directed towards a method for providing supplemental movie information including creating information and an interactive application related to a movie building an extras package including the information and the interactive application where the package is built according to a common API and providing access to the extras package to multiple distributor systems.

Implementations of the invention may include one or more of the following. The method may further include updating the information and updating the package. The providing access to the extras package may include storing the extras package on the server and allowing the distributor system to access the extras package through the server. The interactive feature may be a tool for sharing information with other users through a network or a tool for searching information related to the movie.

In related aspects the invention is directed towards non transitory computer readable media including instructions for causing computing environments to perform the above methods.

Advantages of the invention may include in certain embodiments one or more of the following. Interactive extras packages e.g. with supplemental information and features may be built using a common structure and interface. The apparatus and methods allow access of a common package by multiple platforms that are not generally compatible. Search capabilities and support may be built into the package. Social network and sharing features and support may be built into the package. Other advantages will be understood from the description that follows including the figures and claims.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form. The concepts are further described in the Detailed Description section. Elements or steps other than those described in this Summary are possible and no element or step is necessarily required. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended for use as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter. The claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

Like reference numerals refer to like elements throughout. Elements are not to scale unless otherwise noted.

Referring to present principles generally relate to a system which includes various end user devices including a customer device or server a server related to a service e.g. a content provider service as well as a server associated with a social network. These devices may be employed to view or access content from a server associated with a retailer site or service and or a server associated with a third party site or service. The servers and are termed herein media sharing servers and the same are termed herein associated with media sharing sites or services.

The media sharing servers and access content from a content source . The access may be by way of an appropriate API as will be described and or via downloading content to servers and . The content source can receive content for distribution from various sources including a content developer. For simplicity in this description the content source is considered to be the developer or provider of interactive extras which pertain to a main or premium content item or are otherwise associated with one or more such content items e.g. pertain to a genre actor director subject matter or other such category. The content source may take advantage of a distribution network such as a content delivery network CDN .

The content source generally uses a tool to create an interactive extras package . In so doing the content source creates various supplemental information and interactive features which can be viewed in combination with the presentation of a main item of content. The interactive features and supplemental information may operate via an interactive extras application which can be e.g. embodied by a page of content e.g. in HTML 5 which includes links to and thus allows access to the various interactive extras. The extras may include search functionality e.g. full dialogue search searching within the cast searching trivia or the like. The interactive features and supplemental information may include bonus content including trailers deleted scenes and previews. The interactive features and supplemental information may allow integration with one or more social networks e.g. allowing users to make various posts about the main item of content e.g. can post links to their favorite scenes. The interactive features and supplemental information may include other sorts of interactivity e.g. trivia quizzes filmographies clip and share functionality e.g. where users can create and share their own favorite clips from a movie or the like. Other such features termed herein cumulatively as interactive extras will also be understood. Using such features viewers may be provided with a broad set of interactive experiences greatly enhancing their viewing of a main or premium item of content and often making the same significantly more immersive. Details of the provision of such interactive extras are discussed below.

To accomplish such features the interactive extras package may be distributed to media sharing servers such as servers and . As will be discussed the interactive extras package has a defined structure and format e.g. an API the API providing a set of functions through which user computing environments may access the interactive extras when navigating or otherwise operating media sharing sites. In so doing the media sharing sites may perform a one time integration of their sites to conform to the API for the package in some cases modifying a site or service API or associated with the media sharing site. However the integration need only be performed once and once it is performed subsequent titles provided by the content source may be automatically configured to provide the interactive extras functionality without the need for any significant further modification of the servers or . In some cases an update may be provided to the format e.g. the API but the same will simply entail at most an additional integration step and no per title step.

Referring to the schematic diagram of additional details may be seen. In this diagram a customer device is accessing a media sharing site and in particular a server . The customer device is accessing content available from the server though the interactive extras package although in some implementations the customer device need not access content through the package . That is the customer device may access the same through a native UI associated with the media sharing site. In one implementation as seen in the flowchart of it will be seen that the mode of operation may switch from a mode only involving the native UI of the media sharing site to a mode involving the interactive extras package and back again.

Returning to the interactive extras package may use certain functionality of the media sharing server and in particular may require that certain APIs be provided and implemented by the same e.g. using Javascript and exemplary ones described are divided into a service API set and a native set API . For example the media sharing site and server may be required to facilitate launching the interactive extras e.g. an interactive extras application associated with the same that implements functionality provided in the interactive extras package. The application may simply be to allow access to the functionality but can also be significantly more complex as well implementing a complex UI along with other functionality. An API may be required for user login accessing user account functionality as well as provided functionality for purchase flow and entitlements management . That is an API may be required to allow determination by the interactive extras package as to whether a content item has been purchased or rented as associated with a user account. In this way access to the interactive extras may be controlled as described in greater detail below.

For the native API a set of functions may be required pertaining to provision of a player required to play content for authenticated users and a set of functions may further be required pertaining to sharing with social networks e.g. posting on the same. A set of functions may be required pertaining to a file system and management of the same. Other responsibilities of the media sharing server and for which proper APIs may be provided may pertain to maintaining wishlists downloading the interactive extras package and resuming playback in a native UI following termination of use of interactive extras application and or relinquishment of control from the interactive extras application back to the native media sharing application.

Certain exemplary APIs which may be provided by the content source as part of the interactive extras package are described below and may be implemented in e.g. JavaScript. The same are described with respect to . Not all APIs are needed in every implementation and delete additional APIs may be employed where dictated by the implementation.

Returning to the discussion of above the main display window are illustrated a number of interactive extras. More or less interactive extras may be provided in any given implementation. In the figure certain in feature interactive extras are provided including photos e.g. from the main item of content its filming history marketing photos and the like. An interactive extra is provided for fun facts which when activated provides the user various trivia about the main content item including in some cases an interactive quiz. Featurettes may be provided as an interactive extra the same corresponding to e.g. related videos deleted scenes bonus scenes or the like. Details about cast and crew may be provided by activation of an element and the same may lead to individual pages about the cast and crew links to other online resources or the like. A clip and share button is provided to allow a user to create their own clips from the movie and to share the same as well as to share predefined clips. Additional details about clip and share functionality are described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 227 795 filed Sep. 8 2011 entitled System And Method For Providing Video Clips And The Creation Thereof owned by the assignee of the present application and herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Exemplary other interactive features may include access to a filmography. Yet other features may include access to a search functionality where users may search dialogue of the main content item cast information trivia data and the like. Yet other interactive features may include integration with and access to social networking sites such that users can post comments about the content item clips of the content item and the like. For this interactive feature the interactive extras application may access one of the set of native APIs within the media sharing site and in particular a social networking API . A list of exemplary social networking methods is shown in .

Certain interactive features may be keyed to a timecode. For example trivia about an actor in a scene or trivia about how a scene was made may be caused to appear as a UI element e.g. separately from the main display window or overlaid thereon. Such data is generally keyed to the timecode of the scene and thus knowledge of the timecode allows portrayal of the correct UI element at the appropriate time. Another example is a dialogue search where if a desired line of dialogue is found in the search an interactive feature allows skipping to the corresponding scene of the content item again dependent on timecode. Other interactive features do not depend on timecode e.g. certain trivia quizzes deleted scenes and the like. However in some implementations even these may be dependent on timecode e.g. if the trivia is about a particular scene or if the interactive extra indicates where within the playback of the content item the deleted scene would have occurred.

Referring next to the flowchart of a general workflow or method is described for use of an interactive extras package. In a first step a media sharing server has initial control over interactions with the user the user employing a user computing device in signal communication with the media sharing server step . On a user interface of the user computing device the user may then select an interactive extras activatable element step . For example while the user is viewing a content item in a player of the media sharing site an activatable element may be provided to access interactive extras.

Upon selection of such an activatable element the media sharing server launches an interactive extras application step . As noted in some implementations the interactive extras application may only serve to provide additional functionality as dictated by the API. In other cases the application may be more complex. In any case certain functions are then given control from a native media sharing application to the interactive extras application via the API. For example the interactive extras application may be given control of the player functionality. As another example the interactive extras application may call the media sharing site s login API to authenticate the user if such authentication has not already occurred. In some cases the user s login state may simply be passed to the interactive extras application for the same purpose.

The interactive extras application may further call the media sharing sites locker API or a similar API to determine user entitlements step . In this way the interactive extras application determines what access a user may be given to interactive extras associated with the main content item. Details will vary based on implementation but it is noted that in many cases interactive extras may operate in a preview mode for main content items not owned by the user. In some cases interactive extras may be provided by degrees and may depend on the type of main content item owned by the user. For example a first level of interactive extras may be provided upon purchase of a standard definition version of a movie while a second level of interactive extras may be provided upon purchase of an HD version. Still more extras may be provided upon purchase of even more enhanced versions.

Through the interactive extras application a user may play share and or download the purchased or rented main content item step . The purchase or rental of the content item may be by the interactive extras application accessing the media sharing site s buy functionality e.g. via an API call step . See again e.g. the methods shown in . If the user plays the main content item the same may be by way of the interactive extras application hosting the media sharing site s player component again via an API call step . See also the exemplary player methods shown in as well as the exemplary downloading functions shown by file system methods and callbacks shown in . Exemplary event methods employable during playback include those shown in .

The user generally gains access to the appropriate interactive extras available upon their purchase of the main content item. These interactive extras may also be played shared and or downloaded depending on their mode of interaction. That is through the interactive extras application the user may activate one or more interactive extras step described above. Specific exemplary methods callbacks and data settings are shown in for such interactive extras.

The user may continue to access the media sharing site server through the interactive extras application package although in some cases the user may terminate access through the interactive extras and return to the native UI of the media sharing site. If the user decides to terminate the interactive extras application step then control over the certain functionality provided in step is relinquished and the media sharing site s native application is given control once again over all functionality provided by its native UI. The system returns to the state of step .

The interactive extras may pertain to a particular content item or may pertain to a genre of content items. For example a horror genre interactive package may be created which may be provided to media sharing sites for distribution separately or along with distribution of horror movies. Generally besides the genre any such categorization may be used as the basis for such a secondary package . Secondary packages provide additional layers of modularity reusability and customization. For example different secondary packages may be chosen automatically for different distributors or users such as selecting trailer packages based on region or date. Secondary packages may also be employed as a way to update an original interactive extras package e.g. by using the secondary package to provide the update functionality. Secondary packages may in some implementations use the same API or an additional common API to interact with the media sharing site or with an original interactive extras package or other secondary package . In one implementation a content provider may give a media sharing site access to an interactive extras package but access to a secondary extras package is provided through the original interactive extras package and is thus transparent to the media sharing site. In yet another variation parts of an original interactive extras package may be replaced by parts of a secondary extras package including scenes dialogue or an audio track. Distributors may also access or provide one or more additional extras packages that are not provided by the original content provider s interactive extras package. For example a distributor may create its own extras package or may provide access to a third party extras package e.g. from an advertiser. Similar to the secondary packages above these packages can also operate beside her with one another and or the content provider s package s .

The interactive extras package so created is then adapted to a particular distribution format step . For example the interactive extras package may be configured to conform to a defined structure and API. The package may then be distributed to at least one media sharing site e.g. a media sharing server hosting a media sharing site step . The media sharing site server may have previously received and integrated into their UI data corresponding to the distribution format. That is the media sharing site has generally performed an integration of their site by conforming to the API defined for the interactive extras package. In this way as noted the content provider can provide the same package of extras to multiple distributors that may have incompatible platforms without having to build custom packages for each platform. The incompatibility of the platforms will of been taken account of by the integration conformation to the defined API. This allows the content provider to build the package once for all and further provides a more consistent experience across various distributor services.

In one exemplary implementation an interactive extras package may be built using HTML5 over a backbone JavaScript MVC framework. Other technologies employed may include CSS3 JQuery and a JavaScript database to store and retrieve interactive content in JSON. Media sharing sites may employ various technologies as well including the above as well as e.g. Google Web toolkit for development Strobe Flash Player and or Open Source Media Framework OSMF based media player.

What has been described is an apparatus and methods for providing an interactive extras package usable across multiple distributor platforms. Additional variations and implementations are also possible. For example extras packages can be built for movies television programs advertising web content music presentations educational content games etc. Extras packages can include text images video audio music links to network resources interactive content games licenses rights management information and software promotional content or access rights codes etc. Interactive extras may include links to shopping sites e.g. where users may purchase items they see within a main content item. Content corresponding to interactive extras packages may be hosted at e.g. the content source or at the media sharing server. A benefit of the former is that updates to the package are implemented once and are then automatically applied across the multiple distributor platforms. A benefit of the latter is that the media sharing site retains greater control over the presentation of the content and interactive extras. Generally the source of the premium or main item of content need not change and the same is in many cases provided by a content delivery network. While the apparatus and methods have been described in the context of online access to a media sharing site an interactive extras application may also run on a standalone computer environment without online access. However in such cases both the main item of content and the interactive extras package would be downloaded onto the standalone computer environment and or accessible thereto e.g. via a local network. Systems and methods according to present principles may be provided across numerous platforms as listed below. Accordingly the invention is not limited to the specific examples and implementations described here.

One implementation includes one or more programmable processors and corresponding computer system components to store and execute computer instructions such as to provide the access and providing of information in the extras packages and the execution and interaction with interactive features of the extras. One such computing environment is disclosed below.

Referring to a representation of an exemplary computing environment is illustrated as an example of how one or more systems according to present principles may be implemented. These systems may include e.g. components indicated herein by reference numerals and . Generally the creation and use of interactive extras packages and applications as well as the playback of content items require the use of such computing environments to perform the methods of the flowcharts described e.g. flowcharts B.

The computing environment includes a controller a memory storage a media device a user interface an input output I O interface and a network interface . The components are interconnected by a common bus . Alternatively different connection configurations can be used such as a star pattern with the controller at the center.

The controller includes a programmable processor and controls the operation of the controller . The controller loads instructions from the memory or an embedded controller memory not shown and executes these instructions to control the system.

Memory which may include non transitory computer readable memory stores data temporarily for use by the other components of the system. In one implementation the memory is implemented as DRAM. In other implementations the memory also includes long term or permanent memory such as flash memory and or ROM.

Storage which may include non transitory computer readable memory stores data temporarily or long term for use by other components of the system such as for storing data or instructions. In one implementation the storage is a hard disc drive a solid state drive or cloud storage.

The media device which may include non transitory computer readable memory receives removable media and reads and or writes data to the inserted media. In one implementation the media device is an optical disc drive or disc burner e.g. a writable Blu ray disc drive .

The user interface includes components for accepting user input e.g. the user creation and operation of interactive extras packages. The controller uses inputs entered by the user to adjust the operation of the computing environment.

The I O interface includes one or more I O ports to connect to corresponding I O devices such as external storage or supplemental devices. In one implementation the ports of the I O interface include ports such as USB ports PCMCIA ports serial ports and or parallel ports. In another implementation the I O interface includes a wireless interface for wireless communication with external devices.

The network interface allows connections with the local network and includes a wired and or wireless network connection such as an RJ 45 or Ethernet connection or Wi Fi interface 802.11 . Numerous other types of network connections will be understood to be possible including WiMax 3G or 4G 802.15 protocols 802.16 protocols satellite Bluetooth or the like.

The system may include additional hardware and software typical of such devices e.g. power and operating systems though these components are not specifically shown in the figure for simplicity. In other implementations different configurations of the devices can be used e.g. different bus or storage configurations or a multi processor configuration.

The methods shown and described above may be implemented in one or more general multi purpose or single purpose processors. Unless specifically stated the methods described herein are not constrained to a particular order or sequence. In addition some of the described methods or elements thereof can occur or be performed concurrently.

Functions components described herein as being computer programs are not limited to implementation by any specific embodiments of computer programs. Rather such functions components are processes that convey or transform data and may generally be implemented by or executed in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof.

It will be appreciated that particular configurations of the operating environment may include fewer more or different components or functions than those described. In addition functional components of the operating environment may be implemented by one or more devices which are co located or remotely located in a variety of ways.

Although the subject matter herein has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is also to be understood that the subject matter defined in the claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

It will further be understood that when one element is indicated as being responsive to another element the elements may be directly or indirectly coupled. Connections depicted herein may be logical or physical in practice to achieve a coupling or communicative interface between elements. Connections may be implemented among other ways as inter process communications among software processes or inter machine communications among networked computers.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any implementation or aspect thereof described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations or aspects thereof.

The system and method may be fully implemented in any number of computing devices. Typically instructions are laid out on computer readable media generally non transitory and these instructions are sufficient to allow a processor in the computing device to implement the method of the invention. The computer readable medium may be a hard drive or solid state storage having instructions that when run are loaded into random access memory. Inputs to the application e.g. from the plurality of users or from any one user may be by any number of appropriate computer input devices. For example users may employ a keyboard mouse touchscreen joystick trackpad other pointing device or any other such computer input device to input data relevant to the calculations. Data may also be input by way of an inserted memory chip hard drive flash drives flash memory optical media magnetic media or any other type of file storing medium. The outputs may be delivered to a user by way of a video graphics card or integrated graphics chipset coupled to a display that may be seen by a user. Given this teaching any number of other tangible outputs will also be understood to be contemplated by the invention. For example outputs may be stored on a memory chip hard drive flash drives flash memory optical media magnetic media or any other type of output. It should also be noted that the invention may be implemented on any number of different types of computing devices e.g. personal computers desktop computers laptop computers notebook computers net book computers handheld computers personal digital assistants mobile phones smart phones tablet computers smart TVs and also on devices specifically designed for these purpose. In one implementation a user of a smart phone or WiFi connected device downloads a copy of the application to their device from a server using a wireless Internet connection. An appropriate authentication procedure and secure transaction process may provide for payment to be made to the seller. The application may download over the mobile connection or over the WiFi or other wireless network connection. The application may then be run by the user. Such a networked system may provide a suitable computing environment for an implementation in which a plurality of users provide separate inputs to the system and method. In the above system where extras packages are contemplated the plural inputs may allow plural users to input relevant data and control package configurations at the same time.

As it is understood that embodiments other than the specific embodiments described above may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims it is intended that the scope of the subject matter herein will be governed by the following claims.

