---

title: Personal monitoring system and method
abstract: A personal monitoring device of the present disclosure has a sensing device that detects motion of a user and a global positioning system (GPS) that executes queries to identify a current location of the user. In addition, the device has logic that stores motion data indicative of motion of the user detected by the sensing device and adjusts a rate of location queries executed by the GPS based upon the stored motion data indicative of motion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09497609&OS=09497609&RS=09497609
owner: Integrity Tracking, LLC
number: 09497609
owner_city: Boca Raton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141118
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 539 296 entitled Personal Monitoring System and Method and filed on Jun. 29 2012 and this application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 502 654 entitled A System Architecture for A Mobile Personal Emergency Response and Health Monitoring System and filed on Jun. 29 2011 both of which are fully incorporated herein by reference.

It is customary for elderly individuals that are at risk of falling or individuals that have medical conditions that may require fast emergency response and immediate access to medical attention to rely on and utilize personal emergency response systems PERS to request this assistance. Traditionally these systems are coupled to an individual s home communications infrastructure such as the public switched telephone network PSTN or more recently a broadband Internet connection. One such architecture is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 686 342 entitled Human Health Monitoring Systems and Methods which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

When an emergency happens it is imperative that assistance gets dispatched quickly to the person regardless of the location. Current technologies available allow for assistance to be given to a person if the person is at specific location when they need the assistance or for a person to be capable of finding assistance themselves if they are away from those locations.

The present disclosure relates to a personal emergency response system that enables a user employing the system to obtain help during an emergency. The personal emergency response system comprises a monitor that is worn and or in close proximity to the user during times when the user is at risk for needing assistance if an emergency event occurs e.g. when the user is alone at his her residence.

During use the monitor senses and records user characteristic data indicative of physiological motion and location characteristics related to the user. The monitor transmits the user characteristic data to a computing device over a network e.g. a cellular network to a computing device.

The data received by the computing device is stored and is available for real time or subsequent access. The computing device may notify a caregiver of the received characteristic data or notify the caregiver of events that occur as evidenced by the characteristic data received. Based upon the information received by the caregiver the caregiver may contact the user. In one embodiment the caregiver may contact via a network the monitoring device via a number specifically assigned to the monitoring device similar to a mobile phone number. In one embodiment in response to a call the monitor automatically creates a network connection with the caregiver and activates a speakerphone through which the caregiver can speak with the user. In addition the caregiver can contact additional individuals designated as emergency contacts and or request an emergency response team to the user. In one embodiment the monitor records data of the user s location e.g. global positioning system data which the computing device stores and which can be used to locate the user if the user s whereabouts are unknown.

The monitoring system described further with reference to automatically monitors the user. In this regard the monitoring system collects the characteristic data related to the user which may include but is not limited to physiological motion and location data hereinafter collectively referred to as user data. 

The monitoring system transmits collected user data to a radio service computing device via a wireless network . The radio service computing device transmits the user data to the personal monitoring computing device via the network .

The personal monitoring computing device stores the user data received via the network . In addition to storing the user data the personal monitoring computing device may analyze the user data received and determine if an event has occurred e.g. the user falls and send a notification to the call center system via the network . If such a notification is made the call center system may automatically create a connection e.g. a voice connection to the monitoring system via the telephone network or a caregiver may be monitoring the call center system and manually place a phone call to the monitoring system via the telephone network . In addition the personal monitoring computing device may connect to the monitoring system through the remote access server via the telephone network .

In one embodiment the wireless network is a mobile device network. The mobile device network may be for example a cellular network that communicates via radio waves. In one embodiment the user device may communicate over a public switched telephone network PSTN . In such a configuration a user of a mobile device not shown may connect to any other phone mobile or land line in the world. Other configurations may be employed in other embodiments. For example the monitoring system may communicate with the personal monitoring computing device via satellite technology.

In one embodiment the network is the Internet. However other types of networks may be used in other embodiments to implement the system . In this regard any type of packet switched networks may be used that connect the radio service computing device to the personal monitoring computing device .

In one embodiment the telephone network is a public switched telephone network PSTN . The PSTN is a collection of circuit switched telephone networks that may employ various technologies for communicating e.g. telephone lines fiber optic lines microwave cellular towers and or satellites. Note that in one embodiment the wireless network may be a part of the telephone network . However for illustration of the system of the present disclosure no such linkage or inclusion is shown in .

The user device may be any type of device that is worn by the user . The user device may be any type of device that senses stores and transmits user data and enables the user to be contacted or to contact a caregiver for assistance. An exemplary user device may include but is not limited to a mobile phone including a smart phone belt clip chest strap pendant watch and or arm band for example.

In one embodiment the user device comprises a mechanism not shown that enables the user to quickly and easily request help. Such a mechanism may include but is not limited to a manual push button that when selected automatically dials a caregiver or someone who can contact the caregiver for the user .

In one embodiment the user device comprises a battery to provide power for the device. In one embodiment the user device comprises a global positioning system GPS for obtaining location data not shown describing the precise location of the user . In one embodiment the user device comprises mobile network interface equipment such as a global system for mobile communication GSM or code division multiple access CDMA radio that enables the user device to transmit user data including location information such as latitude and longitude data via the wireless network and provide 2 way communication between the user and the call center system via the network . In one embodiment the device further comprises a sensor e.g. an accelerometer or barometric pressure sensor that performs motion analysis and fall detection so that the user data may contain data indicative of motion data related to the user. Such a device system is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 192 855 entitled Wearable Health Monitoring Device and Methods for Fall Detection U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 192 830 entitled Wearable Health Monitoring Device and Methods for Step Detection the 830 application and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 192 855 entitled Wearable Health Monitoring Device and Methods for Fall Detection the 855 application which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Additionally the user device may be configured to detect whether the user has fallen. If a fall occurs the user device may establish a telephone connection via the network with the call center computing device . The device may also utilize an accelerometer to provide activity measurement and steps as described in the 830 application an ECG circuit to monitor heart rate a thermometer to read temperature and a barometric pressure sensor for measuring elevation. Such a user device is described in the 830 application the 855 application and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 972 039 entitled Wireless Sensor Network System and Method the 039 application which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

In one embodiment the network is a wireless local area network WLAN . In such an embodiment the network links the user device with the networking device via a wireless communication method such as for example Bluetooth or Zigbee .

With reference to in one embodiment the networking device comprises a wireless gateway device and a modem . The wireless gateway device is a computing device that routes packets from the network to the network e.g. the Internet . The wireless gateway device may serve as a wireless access point to the network a router and or a firewall. The modem may be any type of digital subscriber line DSL modem or cable modem that connects the WLAN to the network .

Thus with reference to the user device may connect to and communicate with the personal monitoring computing device through the wireless network and the network using radio communication methods and the radio service computing device . In addition the user device may communicate with the personal monitoring computing device through the network and the network using radio communication methods and the network device . Furthermore the user device may contact or be contacted by the call center computing device . Such contact may be established for example when the call center computing device establishes a connection with a telephone number assigned to the user device e.g. a cell phone or mobile number .

During operation the SGSN computing device receives data user data e.g. in the form of packets from the user device via the network translates the user data received and performs authentication of the user . The GGSN computing device converts the user data into the appropriate packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or X.25 and sends them out on the corresponding network . Further data may be sent to the user device via the network . In this regard data packets not shown received from the network addressed to the user device are translated to GSM standard data packets.

Note that the radio service computing device is depicted and described as an exemplary embodiment. Other technologies protocols and or types of systems may be used to connect the user device employing mobile communication methods to the network e.g. the Internet.

The personal monitoring computing device further comprises user data stored in memory . The user data stores user data and other data related to the user including any data determined based upon the user data received from the user device .

The exemplary embodiment of the personal monitoring computing device depicted by includes a processor which comprises processing hardware for executing instructions stored in memory . The processor communicates to and drives the other elements within the personal monitoring computing device via a local interface which can include at least one bus.

Furthermore the personal monitoring computing device comprises a network interface . The network interface may be any type of communication device that communicatively couples the personal monitoring computing device with the network and the call center computing device and the remote access a server .

In addition the personal monitoring computing device comprises an output device . The output device may be any type of device known in the art or future developed that provides data to a user or caregiver using the personal monitoring computing device . As a mere example the display device may be a liquid crystal display LCD .

Furthermore the personal monitoring computing device comprises an input device . The input device may be for example a keyboard.

The personal monitoring control logic receives user data which includes data indicative of physiological data motion data and location data and stores the user data as user data . An exemplary personal monitoring computing device is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 686 352 entitled Wireless Sensor Network System and Method for Using Same the 352 application and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 686 296 entitled Human Health Monitoring Graphical User Interface Systems and Methods the 296 application each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

During operation the personal monitoring control logic analyzes the user data . In this regard the personal monitoring control logic may take action if the data indicates the necessity. As an example the personal monitoring control logic may notify the call center system via the network that an event e.g. a fall has occurred that needs immediate attention based upon the user data .

In one embodiment the personal monitoring control logic displays to the output device a graphical user interface GUI not shown that enables a user of the personal monitoring computing device to view user data and or take action based upon the viewed user data . One such GUI is described in the 296 application. In one embodiment the personal monitoring control logic displays a dashboard not shown where a user can view user data indicative of past or present information about the user . Such a display may be in the form of a chronological list not shown which is a timeline of events for which user data has been received and or generated.

The GUI may further display location information contained in the user data to the user of the personal monitoring computing device . In this regard the personal monitoring control logic may calculate a person s location described further herein based upon user data indicative of latitude and longitude information. In particular the user data is periodically updated and or modified with additional information available provided by the user device .

An exemplary display of such information is shown with reference to . depicts a GUI in the form of a table comprising headers Date Time header Type header Description header Heart rate header Skin Temperature header and Body Position header . In the exemplary GUI the user data is displayed in chronological order with a first row being the most recent post and a third row being the oldest post.

Each of the entries comprises a subset of the user data indicative of present and historical information. Further one or more of the entries may comprise location information obtained from the user data . In one embodiment a hyperlink is included in the entry . When selected the personal monitoring control logic displays a map e.g. a Google map. Thus the personal monitoring control logic may use the user data to dynamically render a graphical map with the user s current location at the time of the occurrence described in the entry .

The other motion sensors may include additional accelerometers or inertia sensors for example. Any type of motion sensor known in the art or future developed may be used to detect motion of the user .

User device further comprises control logic user data and control data . The user data may include physiological data motion data and location data . Control logic can be software hardware or a combination thereof. In the exemplary user device shown in control logic is shown as software stored in memory . Memory may be of any type of memory known in the art including but not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory and the like.

As noted hereinabove control logic physiological data motion data and control data are shown in as software stored in memory . When stored in memory control logic physiological data motion data and control data can be stored and transported on any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions.

In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium

Processor may be a digital signal processor DSP or other type of circuitry configured to run the control logic by processing and executing the instructions of the control logic .

The communication device may be for example a low powered radio device e.g. a radio semiconductor radio frequency antenna RF antenna a wired communication device such a RS232 USB or Ethernet or other wireless communication device such as a magnetic communications scheme or infrared scheme or any type of communication device which communicatively couples the user device personal monitoring computing device .

In an embodiment having a data receiving unit physiological data and motion data can be relayed in a real time manner a periodic manner an as they occur fashion or some combination of the three. For example a serious condition such as an individual falling could be relayed to the central monitoring device .

In one embodiment the bioamplifier is a device that interfaces with the electrodes . Thus the bioamplifier gathers amplifies filters and conditions the signal integrity of human physiological activity for use by the control logic . The signals not shown collected by the bioamplifier from the electrodes relate to the nervous system of the user . In one embodiment the signals collected are stored as the physiological data and are used by the control logic .

The output device is a device for communicating information to the user . The output device may be for example an LED that indicates that power is on. In addition the output device may be a speaker that emits a sound upon the occurrence of a particular event e.g. when the battery needs to be charged or upon activation.

Physiological data includes data obtained from the one or more sensors e.g. the thermistor or the bioamplifier . Hence the physiological data comprises data indicative of physiological aspects of the user . Examples of physiological data include data indicative of ECG readings heartbeat readings temperature readings or the like.

Motion data includes data obtained from the accelerometer . Hence the motion data comprises data indicative of movement of the user. In the 3 axis accelerometer embodiment the motion data includes data indicative of the user in an X direction Y direction and the Z direction.

The input device enables the user to enter data into the user device . In the exemplary user device the input device may be a push button. When the push button is selected the user device generates a message which is sent over the networks and to the personal monitoring computing device as an emergency event. Other input devices may be used in other embodiments. For example the input device may be a keyboard or a touch screen for performing particular operations on the user device .

In one embodiment the input device is a microphone not shown and an exemplary output device is a speaker not shown as described hereinabove. In such an embodiment the speaker and the microphone enable the user to be in communication with the call center system or the caregiver not shown . In such an example the user device detects an event such as for example a fall or a negative change in the user s physiological condition based upon physiological data . The personal monitoring computing device receives user data that includes the physiological data and transmits an alert to the call center system or the caregiver. The call center system or caregiver may then contact the user over the network via the microphone speaker input output arrangement.

The thermistor is conductively coupled to a metal contact not shown . The thermistor is a device that measures a skin temperature of the user where the thermistor is in contact with the metal contact which is in contact with the skin of the user . In one embodiment the thermistor is a thermocouple not shown .

In one embodiment the accelerometer is a 3 axis accelerometer for monitoring motion. The accelerometer may be a direct current DC response or a non DC response accelerometer. In one embodiment the accelerometer is a microelectromechanical MEMS piezoresistive technology sensor not shown however other types of accelerometers known in the art or future developed may be used in other embodiments of the user device .

In one embodiment the accelerometer measures acceleration due to gravity and physical movement and transmits the raw analog signals to the ADC . The ADC translates the received analog into digital data indicative of the received analog signals not shown . The ADC provides the digital data indicative of the analog signals to the control logic which can store the digital data as motion data . The control logic then calculates and stores additional motion data including activity induced energy expenditure AEE and or orientation based upon the motion data . In addition the control logic can use the motion data to detect a fall detect steps made by the user and categorize activity performed by the user . The accelerometer may be a single or dual axis accelerometer arranged to create a three axis orthogonal coordinate system as depicted in as X Y and Z axes.

During extraction of the physiological data and motion data the control logic reacts quickly to changes in real time and also reduces the data stream thereby maximizing the storage capabilities of memory . Reducing the data stream may refer to techniques for averaging the data or inspecting the real time stream for certain feature extraction. One such technique is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 972 335 entitled Wireless Sensor Network Context Data Delivery System and Method.

The barometer is any device that is capable of determining barometric pressure. Thus the barometer obtains a barometric pressure measurement e.g. air pressure measurement and the control logic can calculate the user s location in reference to the user s height above sea level. Such calculated height may be stored in the user data

The GPS is any system that communicates with a satellite not shown for example to obtain location data related to where the user is located. In this regard the GPS may obtain longitude and latitude data that identifies the user s location.

In one embodiment of the system the user device may tend to use a considerable amount of power from the power supply e.g. a battery. One method of efficiently utilizing power resources is described in the 335 application.

In one embodiment of the system the control logic throttles GPS location queries performed by the GPS based upon a first order approximation of positional change derived from a motion sensor e.g. the accelerometer . In such embodiment throttling the GPS and using data obtained from a lower power consuming motion sensor reduces power consumption of the system .

In such embodiment the control logic performs a first order approximation on the motion data to determine if the motion data indicates a change in the user s location. In the process the system control logic stores data indicative of the last known location obtained from GPS as location data . In determining if a positional change has occurred the control logic samples another motion based sensor e.g. the accelerometer which is a lower power consuming sensor than the GPS. In one embodiment the control logic uses detected steps over a given time frame to determine if a positional change has occurred. If the number of detected steps exceeds a threshold then the control logic may query the GPS. Otherwise the control logic does not query the GPS to save power. For example a threshold may be determined such that if the user has taken less than 100 steps in the previous hour then use the last known location. Using the last known location obtained by the GPS as opposed to the GPS querying the current location avoids using the power intensive GPS receiver to obtain a precise location when it is estimated that the user s location has not changed appreciably based upon the measured steps.

In another embodiment the control logic may look instead at the amount of expended energy over a period of time. If the user has not expended enough energy to change their location appreciably then the control logic uses the last known location of the GPS instead of getting an exact current location by querying the GPS which would expend unnecessary battery power.

Thus in both embodiments described the GPS remains inactive or idle unless it is determined that a threshold number of steps has been taken or an appreciable amount of energy has been expended indicating that the user has moved to a location that is so different from the known location previously obtained from the GPS to justify expending energy getting a current location from the GPS. The 830 application described a method for determining the number of steps a user has taken during a given period of time.

In another embodiment the user device may not send location data to the personal monitoring computing device until the user device control logic determines that the user s location has changed appreciably e.g. a threshold of steps have been taken that indicates that location data needs to be updated on the personal monitoring computing device . In such an embodiment the control logic may continue to transmit other user data to the personal monitoring computing device in a periodic fashion so that the personal monitoring computing device may discern the scenario when the user has not changed location and the scenario when the device is not operational or out of range from a communication infrastructure.

In one embodiment the user device detects whether the user has fallen or taken steps as described in the 855 application or taken steps. In such an embodiment the control logic may control periodic measurements taken from the accelerometer. In this regard the control logic may not take measurements from the accelerometer until a threshold of change is determined and the acceleration ceases after a period of time.

In another embodiment the user device may extend the battery life by utilizing piezoelectric MEMS devices not shown that harvest kinetic energy. Such devices typically take advantage of Faraday s Law and rely on natural vibrations to move a tiny electromagnetic generator not shown . Modern piezoelectric kinetic scavenging MEMS devices can generate several hundred microwatts of power. While perhaps not sufficient to power the user device completely the power generated may be used to augment the power subsystem and be channeled to storage in the power supply e.g. the battery. Or similarly the power generated may be used to supplement power so as to minimize draw on the power supply . This method would depend on the relative activity level of the user but could be used to delay charging or extend the usable life of the device between charges.

In one embodiment the user device control logic determines whether the user device is being worn by the user to ensure efficacy of user data transmitted. In this regard data indicating whether the user device is being worn when the user data is obtained may be used to aid the caregivers in helping the user and provide statistics regarding problems leading to the user not wearing the user device .

In one embodiment the user device may comprise a mechanical trigger not shown e.g. an actuator or switch. The mechanical trigger may be toggled when the user attaches or removes the user device . Data indicative of such attachment and or removal may be transmitted with the user data .

In another embodiment the user device may comprise a touch less proximity sensor that reacts to changes in magnetic or RF field examples are Hall Effect sensors or an RF capacitive human body proximity sensor which may detect a change in capacitance as a result of near proximity to a human body . In another embodiment the user device may comprise a thermal measurement instrument e.g. thermistor . Since bodies naturally emit heat detection of that heat using a thermistor infrared receiver or other temperature reading device can indicate that the user device is being worn.

In another embodiment the control logic may record stationary movement e.g. breathing heart beating scratching muscle movement and spasms etc. The control logic may determine if the user device is being worn based on such user data indicative of the stationary movements

In one embodiment the control logic may roam a geographical area in which the user is present to obtain data relating to available networks. In such an embodiment the control logic may select another network for use in delivering data to the personal monitoring computing device . When the user device is not transmitting across the network the user device may use other networks and transmission methods to deliver user data and ensure security such as a REST POST interface as seen in the 335 application.

For example the user device may be in close proximity to a wireless network such as an 802.11g network. The user device detects the wireless network connects to the located network automatically and transmits data through the wireless network instead of through the network . Additionally at a home or facility where there is a wireless personal area network WPAN such as ZigBee or 6LoPAN the user device may transmit measurements to these WPANs and communicate with an existing emergency response system in place at other locations.

In one embodiment the WPANs may not allow user data in particular protocols generated by the user device . In such an embodiment the user device retains the user data that the user device was unable to transmit and transmits the retained user data at a later time. Notably the user device may connect to multiple different WPANs at a given time. When no network is found by the control logic user data is stored in nonvolatile memory for later transmission. Such a system is described in the 342 application.

As described hereinabove the control logic stores location data periodically that the control logic sends with user data to the personal monitoring computing device . Such location data contained in the user data may be used to track the location of the user . In this regard a caregiver may have an itinerary of the user that the user is intended to follow over a period of time. Such location data can be used by the caregiver to ensure that the user follows the itinerary. Note that in one embodiment the control logic disables its location tracking capability so that it is unable to track the user s location.

In one embodiment the user device transmits location data in the user data periodically or on demand. If the user device transmits location data in the user data periodically e.g. at set intervals of time the personal monitoring control logic generates user data indicative of the user s location history.

If the user device transmits location data on demand the personal monitoring control logic transmits a notification to the user device such as with short message service SMS or through an acknowledgement message. Upon receipt the user device queries the GPS and transmits user data containing the location data to the personal monitoring computing device .

The call center system further comprises user data stored in memory . The user data data related to the user that is received from the personal monitoring computing device including any data determined by the personal monitoring computing device based upon the user data received from the user device .

The exemplary embodiment of the call center system depicted by includes a processor which comprises processing hardware for executing instructions stored in memory . The processor communicates to and drives the other elements within the call center system via a local interface which can include at least one bus.

Furthermore the call center system comprises a network interface . The network interface may be any type of communication device that communicatively couples the call center system with the network and the call center system and the remote access a server .

In addition the call center system comprises an output device . The output device may be any type of device known in the art or future developed that provides data to a user or caregiver using the call center system . As a mere example the output device may be a liquid crystal display LCD .

Furthermore the call center system comprises an input device . The input device may be for example a keyboard.

In one embodiment the call center system is available 24 7 to assist users in response to an event. In this regard the call center control logic receives data indicative of an event from the personal monitoring computing device . The call center control logic stores the received event data as event data . The event data may comprise data indicative of a type of alert the location of the user and or the time the event occurred. In response the call center control logic automatically attempts to establish contact with the user via the telephone network directly calling the user device or a user of the call center system manually establishing e.g. calling the user device . If the user responds to the attempted contact and requests help or the user device automatically answers but no contact is made with the user the user of the call center system may dispatch necessary emergency responders to the user based upon the location information contained in the event data . Notably the control logic is configured to automatically answer such a call from the call center system in the event that the user is unable to take action to respond to the call.

In one embodiment the user device may initiate a call to the call center system once an event has occurred for example if the user is still capable of taking action or a caregiver not shown is with the user when the event occurs. In such an embodiment the call center control logic dynamically bind e.g. by associating data indicative of the telephone number calling obtained from a caller identification caller ID system with data indicative of the event that has occurred. In this regard the event data may comprise an identifier e.g. the mobile phone number of the device that the call center control logic may used to associate the event data .

In one embodiment the user device establishes a modem call directly with the call center system . When the call center system answers such a call event data and or user data may be transmitted after connection. When such a call is answered the call center control logic connects the call to a call center system user and switches the call to voice mode thereby establishing a voice call between the user and the user and or caregiver at the call center system . Such binding of the event data and the incoming call from the user device may further be associated with event data and user data obtained from the personal monitoring computing device .

The user device may efficiently deliver the user data to the personal monitoring computing device . In one embodiment the user device may employ a less reliable transport mechanism and a best effort transmission policy such as provided by the User Datagram Protocol UDP . Best effort delivery like that used in UDP transmissions allows the transmissions to be connectionless. In one embodiment data transmitted is in the form of a binary data object.

If UDP is employed datagrams as defined by the UDP sent by the user device may comprise a sequence number so that redundant transmissions can be identified a timestamp to indicate when in time these measurements were taken a type field to identify the type of measurements that are reported assuming the type reported is not always the same and control fields to enable a simple acknowledgement system to ensure data is properly delivered. Other data that may be sent with a datagram containing the user data is described with reference to the 342 application.

In one embodiment the personal monitoring computing device poles a port not shown on the personal monitoring computing device . If a datagram is received the personal monitoring control logic continues to receive and store subsequent datagrams until the last datagram in the sequence is received. In this regard the personal monitoring control logic will keep a running table to the last sequence number received from each user device from which personal monitoring control logic has received messages with timeouts to remove an entry after a certain threshold of time has expired without activity . Thus the personal monitoring control logic can ignore duplicates receipts of user data . Once this has occurred the personal monitoring control logic transmits an acknowledgement to the user device .

In one embodiment the personal monitoring control logic may request a management operation for the user device e.g. firmware upgrade remote provisioning reset of device . In such an embodiment when user data is reported to the personal monitoring control logic the personal monitoring control logic may transmit data in the acknowledgement that indicates that a management operation is pending. For example the personal monitoring control logic may set a flag toggle a bit in the acknowledgement sent to the user device to indicate the management operation is pending. In such an embodiment the personal monitoring control logic waits until it receives a counter acknowledgement from the user device and may resend periodically if no acknowledgement is received from the user device . When the user device receives such a flagged acknowledgement transmits an acknowledgement to the personal monitoring control logic and transmit an additional message for instruction from the personal monitoring control logic . Because management operations are infrequent and subsequently will not have a significant impact on overall data usage the connection established for instruction may or may not use a different protocol such as a REST POST interface described in the 335 application. The personal monitoring control logic and the user device control logic may comprise timeout logic to prevent deadlock should communications fail during transmission.

In another embodiment the personal monitoring control logic transmits an acknowledgement to the user device after each user data transmission is received that contains the sequence number of the last user data received. If the user device does not receive the acknowledgement in the event that the acknowledgement is either lost in transit or that the original packet never arrived at the server it will retransmit the original user data according to a particular waiting period.

In one embodiment a Virtual Private Network VPN can be erected between the network and the personal monitoring computing device in order to protect user data traveling through network . In one embodiment IPSec or another protocol may be may be used to establish the VPN and encrypt the data. With this method data is still securely transmitted end to end but the additional overhead of this VPN tunnel is not borne by the expensive wireless segment of the system and the user data is still protected.

In one embodiment of the system the personal monitoring computing device uses the location data e.g. GPS coordinates contained in the user data to identify a proper Public Service Access Point PSAP for the user who is in need of emergency help. The PSAP is a 10 digit equivalent of 9 1 1 access and can be assigned statically into the user device . In addition the personal monitoring computer device may search a list of identifiers and associated PSAP numbers based upon the location of the user as identified in the user data received by the personal monitoring computing device . In one embodiment the personal monitoring control logic may determine a street address near the user and perform an indexed lookup for emergency service based on street information.

In another embodiment of the system the personal monitoring computing device transmits location data and or nearby street information from call center system . The call center system may automatically determine an appropriate PSAP or a caregiver may manually find an appropriate PSAP.

In another embodiment the user device establishes not only 2 way communication but 3 way communication as well with the call center system . The call center system contacts the user device to determine if assistance is needed. If help is desired the Call Center establishes a 3 way call such that the user device calls emergency services using e911. By utilizing the e911 system not shown the personal monitoring computing device and the call center system would never need to resolve PSAP.

In another embodiment the system provides information that a caregiver can use to locate a user other than the GPS coordinates as provided by the user device . For example the call center control logic can display a map centered directly on the last known location provided by GPS if outdoors or cellular triangulation to assist the GPS if indoors where GPS alone may not function of the user . On such a map the control logic may highlight a nearby street or intersection or apply a circle around the location of the user . In one embodiment the displayed map can overlay GPS coordinates of the user with street level pictures showing what the area near the user looks like and marking nearby buildings.

In one embodiment the user data received from the user device may be used to calculate an elevation location of the user e.g. what floor a user may be located on in a building. In this regard the barometer obtains and stores data indicative of the pressure that the control logic or the personal monitoring control logic may use to determine elevation location. The elevation location information stored as location data is transmitted to the personal monitoring computing device .

The elevation location information contained in the user data may be used to determine the user s elevation above sea level. The personal monitoring control logic can use the elevation information i.e. the barometric pressure at the time the user data was obtained and translate the user data containing the barometric pressure into feet to determine where i.e. what floor a user is located on in a building.

In addition the personal monitoring control logic may use the longitude and latitude measurements to access a service of a global elevation database. The personal monitoring control logic may use the elevation data retrieved to calculate a difference between the measured elevation and the retrieved elevation to obtain the user s height above the street level i.e. the height above sea level for the location represented by the latitude and longitude data identifying the user s location. The difference between the height above sea level at the particular location and the user s height above sea level is transmitted to emergency personnel either through voice or electronically so the emergency personnel can locate the user . For example the user may be 80 feet above street level which may indicate that the user is on the 8floor of a building or in a treetop.

Because this information is provided verbally to emergency service responders it will be up to the responders to interpret the details and use judgment on which floor the user may actually be located. But providing this information can save precious minutes by narrowing the search to a starting floor. In very large structures this may mean the difference between life and death if responders cannot locate the user s floor in the structure.

Barometers are subject to a number of variations such as temperature. In order to calculate the absolute height above sea level the present disclosure does not necessarily require problematic error prone and expensive factory calibration techniques and devices. The user device circumvents using such techniques and devices by determining a baseline elevation referred to as a street level elevation and measuring the changes in elevation i.e. height of user in relation to the street level elevation. Thus a caregiver can provide more definitive information to a responder about a user s location without reference to a global elevation database. In such an embodiment the user device control logic may query the accelerometer and use the result to calibrate street level as a point of reference. In this embodiment the user device control logic compares readings from the accelerometer and the barometer and compares those readings to threshold values i.e. values that have been determined to indicate motion of the user in order to determine when the user is in motion. If the user s location is changing the user device control logic samples the barometer to obtain a set of street level data. The user device control logic may average accelerometer and the barometer data over a time interval. Thresholds for in transit are set so that they will not pick up movement in typical structures. For example walking around a parking garage is not sufficient movement to trigger in transit. As an example in transit could mean travelling more than a half mile in one hour. In addition in transit would be set so that it is unlikely or impossible to be in transit while ascending or descending stairs or an elevator. In this fashion the user device control logic allows the pressure recorded at an actual event time to be compared to the pressure at last known street level calibration. The difference represents an elevation change representative of the user s approximate height above street level and can be conveyed to responders as described above. In such an embodiment the barometer need not be very accurate because we have no interest in absolute elevation above sea level. Instead the control logic determines changes in elevation and not absolute accuracy .

In one embodiment the control logic may use a transportation map and or database to further refine the street level approximation. For example when the user device determines that the user is in transit and is at street level the control logic may use his her location and path of movement to determine if the user is on a public transportation system such as an underground train or subway. In such a case the user s calibrated street level is augmented with this data to determine actual street level by knowing the user was 40 feet underground during the last calibration. This adjustment could happen in real time by communicating with the personal monitoring control logic or the user device control logic may adjust resolution time by delivering either with the event or periodically so that the personal monitoring control logic can determine if the last calibrated location was in effect street level or if additional adjustment is required.

In step a sensing device i.e. user device is coupled to a cellular network and the sensing device senses a location of the user . In step the sensing device transmits user data indicative of the location to a computing device via the cellular network .

In step the personal monitoring control logic determines a baseline elevation based on a first location of the user and a change in the user s elevation based on a second location. Further with reference to step the user device transmits data indicative of the baseline elevation and the change to the personal monitoring computing device via the cellular network in step .

