---

title: Personal site privacy policy
abstract: A request, from a requester, is received to view user information on a user's personal site associated with a user. A relationship is determined between the requester and the user. User information is provided to the requester based on the requester's relationship to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09542564&OS=09542564&RS=09542564
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09542564
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140203
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 565 432 filed Nov. 30 2006 which application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Organizations such as corporations and government agencies maintain databases regarding employee information. Such organizations may provide personal web sites for employees that allow access to employee information by other employees. Such information may include an employee email address work phone number personal interests and employee photograph.

In current systems privacy settings of personal information on personal sites have limited flexibility. In some cases information on personal sites may only be limited to two settings public or private. Some privacy settings are limited to a default setting that cannot be changed by a system administrator. Other privacy settings cover broad categories of information and provide no ability to adjust privacy settings to specific data within a category.

The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding to the reader. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure and it does not identify key critical elements of the invention or delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts disclosed herein in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments herein provide privacy settings for user information on personal sites. Examples of privacy settings include Only Me My Manager My Workgroup My Colleagues and Everyone. Embodiments herein allow control over user information on a per item basis to provide a high level of granularity. Embodiments herein include a preview functionality to provide users a view of what information others are allowed to see on the user s personal site. Embodiments herein include management control over system wide privacy policy.

Many of the attendant features will be more readily appreciated as the same become better understood by reference to the following detailed description considered in connection with the accompanying drawings.

The detailed description provided below in connection with the appended drawings is intended as a description of the present examples and is not intended to represent the only forms in which the present examples may be constructed or utilized. The description sets forth the functions of the examples and the sequence of steps for constructing and operating the examples. However the same or equivalent functions and sequences may be accomplished by different examples.

Although not required embodiments of the invention will be described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects application programming interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

Computing environment includes clients and that may communicate with a server using network . Client may execute a browser for use by a user . Client may execute a browser for use by a user . Client may execute a browser for use by a user . In one embodiment a browser includes Microsoft Internet Explorer .

In one embodiment a user s personal site may be viewed by other users also referred to as viewers in an organization using a browser on a client. In general a personal site includes one or more web pages that provide user information about a user such as contact information . A personal site may also be referred to as a personal portal. Embodiments herein provide privacy settings that control what information on a user s personal site is displayed to a viewer at a client based on the viewer s relationship to the user.

Environment also includes a client to display a browser . Client as well as clients may be used by a system administrator to modify system privacy policy change default privacy settings and modify user data discussed further below .

Server includes a portal application for supporting personal sites . In one embodiment each member of an organization such as employees of a corporation has their own personal site. Portal application includes a privacy engine for administrating privacy settings to personal sites . In one embodiment personal sites are supported by a portal application that is part of a suite of applications in Microsoft s Office SharePoint Server 2007. In SharePoint Server 2007 personal sites may be referred to as MySites. shows a single server for the sake of clarity but one skilled in the art will appreciate that computing environment may include multiple servers.

Server may access a data store than has stored user data . Data store may be accessed directly by server as shown in or may be accessed via network or via another network not shown . While one data store is shown for clarity one skilled in the art will appreciate that computing environment may include multiple data stores . In various embodiments one or more data stores may be co located with server or located off site.

Turning to an embodiment of a personal site is shown. Embodiments of the invention are not limited to the information content or arrangement of information in . While embodiments of the invention are described in a business organization context it will be understood that embodiments herein are not limited to business environments. In one embodiment information shown in personal site may be provided from one or more data stores . These data stores may be associated with a directory for example a Microsoft Active Directory a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP compatible directory etc. business applications customer built applications and the like.

Personal site is associated with a user named Fred Jones as shown at . Section shows a photo of Fred Jones and links to various user information associated with Fred Jones. User information includes information associated with each user. User information may include profile properties links colleagues and memberships. User information may also include content for example documents pictures video etc. that has been uploaded to the user s personal site.

Section shows a summary of user information. A viewer may see more detailed user information by selecting a link in section or a link in section . Area of section shows some profile properties such as job position salesperson office location bldg. and work phone. Section may also include other profile properties such as details Fred Jones workgroup US Sales Team contact information work email and work address and an organization chart of the user at . In Fred Jones direct supervisor is Sam Smith. Sam Smith also supervises Sally Smith and Don Johnson. In one embodiment the viewer may see another page having more user profile properties by clicking the profile properties link in section .

Section includes a summary of other user information for Fred Jones. This other user information includes colleagues shown at memberships shown at and links shown at . In one embodiment a viewer may select one of these and be sent to another page that has a complete list of the user s colleagues memberships and links. As described below the privacy settings of items under colleagues memberships and links may be controlled on a per item basis.

Personal site may also include a preview tool . Preview tool allows the user to preview what information will be seen by viewers in various privacy settings. In the user may use a pull down menu to select a preview for Everyone My Colleagues My Workgroup and My Manager. shows the preview of information as seen by Everyone. The embodiment of preview function in uses a pull down menu but one skilled in the art will appreciate alternative implementations. Embodiments of a preview functionality are discussed further below in connection with .

Turning to an embodiment of a privacy setting hierarchy is shown. Hierarchy shows the relationship of the privacy settings to each other. Hierarchy is arranged in concentric circles to show that members of a privacy setting group include all the members of any group within that group. For example My Colleagues includes all persons of My Workgroup My Manager and Only Me .

A privacy setting of Only Me limits viewing of information to only the user. An example of such information may include a pay stub page or document. In some embodiments at least a portion of Only Me information may be viewable and editable by people having special privileges such as a system administrator or human resources personnel.

Privacy setting My Manager allows information to be viewable by the user s manager. My Workgroup allows information to be viewable by people in a user s workgroup. In one embodiment a user s manager and a user s work group are defined by an organizational hierarchy and or organization policy. In one embodiment people who have a relationship of My Manager and My Workgroup may not be edited by the user.

In one embodiment My Colleagues may include one or more persons who have a direct relationship with the user. A colleague may include a friend a co worker a business associate or other person. A colleague may include a person that the user has met in person or has developed a relationship with through email telephone or the like.

In one embodiment an application executing on server may suggest potential colleagues to a user. The application may analyze which people are contacted in a user s email traffic phone traffic instant messaging traffic or other communications to build a list of suggested colleagues for the user. The user may edit the suggested colleague list as desired for example remove suggested colleagues or add people to the user s colleagues not on the suggested list . An embodiment of such an application is disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 438 423 titled Relating People Finding Results by Social Distance filed May 22 2006.

In one embodiment suggested colleagues are limited to people that are one degree from the user that is people that the user has had direct contact with. In another embodiment suggested colleagues may include people that are more than one degree away from a user. For example suggested colleagues may include people who have direct contact with a user first degree of separation as well as colleagues of these people second degree of separation . These degrees of separation also referred to as social networking may be extended as desired.

In one embodiment Everyone may include all persons associated with an organization such as all employees of a corporation. In another embodiment Everyone may include all members of the public that may access the personal site using the Internet. In yet another embodiment Everyone is assigned to items that have no privacy protection.

When a viewer wishes to view a user s personal site embodiments of the invention determine what the relationship is of viewer to the user. This relationship defines what privacy setting viewer falls into and consequently what user information may be seen by viewer on the user s personal site.

It will be appreciated that embodiments of the invention provide access to information based on relationships between people. This model may be distinguished from an access control list model. Usually an access control list is tied to information itself such as a document or database and indicates what users may access the information. Embodiments herein operate using relationships between people.

As relationships change between people then access to information may also change. For example assume that a person s manager changes. With embodiments herein a user does not have to make changes to privacy settings on their personal site. Once the new manager is designated as the person s manager and the old manager undesignated then the new manager may view My Manager information and the old manager no longer has access to My Manager information. The user does not have to change privacy settings on their personal site. Further the burden of updating numerous access control lists due to a change in the user s manager has been eliminated.

Turning to a block diagram of a privacy policy and user data in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown. In one embodiment privacy engine may apply privacy policy to user data for determining what user information may be displayed to a viewer. shows user data where each user data is associated with a different user i.e. six users . User data corresponds to the user information available on a user s personal site.

Privacy policy may include privacy settings that are set according to an organization s policy and may not be changed by a user. For example a user s work phone number is defaulted to Everyone and this privacy setting may not be modified by a user. Privacy policy may also include privacy settings that are modifiable by a user. For example a user s home address may be defaulted to a privacy setting of My Manager but the user may be allowed to change this privacy setting. In determining the privacy settings to be applied to user information both the organization s privacy policy and the user s modified privacy settings are used described further below in conjunction with .

Turning to an embodiment of applying privacy policy to user data will be discussed. In user data is shown as five logical units profile properties colleagues memberships links and customers . It will be understood that embodiments of user data are not limited to the logical arrangement as shown in .

User data of includes an example of extended user information called customers . As will be discussed below embodiments of the invention provide for extension of user information as appropriate for a particular organization.

Privacy policy includes fields for user information privacy settings visibility and user override enabled O R . Visibility indicates the default visibility setting for the user information. Override indicates whether the privacy setting for the user information may be overridden by the user. Embodiments of modifying the privacy policy are discussed below in conjunction with .

Profile properties shows the values for the profile properties for the specific user. Profile properties may also include the visibility for each profile property. This information is needed in cases where the privacy setting may be overridden by the user and the system needs to verify what setting the user has selected. For example home phone in privacy policy is defaulted to My Manager but with user override permitted. In profile properties the user has changed the privacy setting to My Workgroup.

Profile properties also includes references to colleagues memberships and links where the user may set privacy settings for each item. While not shown a user may also have privacy settings for each piece of content such as documents uploaded to the user s personal site. In the system administrator has added customers . Embodiments herein enable extending user information to data that may be pertinent to a particular organization.

Embodiments herein enable the privacy setting control at a high level of granularity. As shown in the privacy setting for each piece of user information may be controlled. For example in colleagues a privacy setting for each individual colleague is provided. Everyone may see that Greg is a colleague of the user but only those viewers having a relationship of My Workgroup may see that Brian is a colleague of the user. In links privacy settings are provided for each particular link.

Turning to a flowchart shows the logic and operations of providing personal site user information to a client in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. In one embodiment at least a portion of the logic of flowchart is performed by privacy engine . Privacy engine applies the organization s privacy policy settings and the user s modified privacy settings. Starting at block a request to view a user s personal site is received from a viewer. Next in block the relationship of the viewer to the user is determined.

Proceeding to decision block the logic determines what information the relationship has visibility access to based on privacy settings. It will be appreciated that at decision block the visibility determination is made using the relationship and the privacy settings not the identity of the viewer and the privacy settings.

Referring to the logic examines the privacy settings in privacy policy for a piece of user information e.g. home phone if the user does not have override authority then the privacy setting in privacy policy is applied to the piece of user information. If the user does have override authority then the logic applies the privacy setting associated with the piece of user information in the user data e.g. My Workgroup applied to home phone in user profile properties .

If the answer at decision block is no then the logic proceeds to block discussed below . If the answer to decision block is yes then the logic continues to block to permit the viewer to see the user information at the viewer s client. In one embodiment only user information the relationship permits visibility to is sent to the viewer s client.

Proceeding to decision block the logic determines if there is more user information. If the answer to decision block is no then flowchart ends. If the answer is yes then the logic returns to decision block to determine the viewer s visibility rights to additional user information.

Turning to embodiments of changing privacy settings in response to user input is shown. In a flowchart shows the logic and operations of modifying privacy settings of a user s profile properties. In one embodiment the user may request to edit their profile from their personal site by selecting a menu option clicking a link or the like. One skilled in the art will appreciate that similar editing logic and pages may be used to edit a user s colleagues memberships and links or other user information.

In flowchart starting in block a privacy setting of a user s profile property is presented to a user. The logic continues to decision block to determine if a user has authority to override the privacy setting of the profile property. If the answer is yes the logic proceeds to block to enable the user to change the privacy setting of the profile property. For example a pull down menu is provided for the profile property. The logic then proceeds to decision block discussed below .

If the answer is no the logic proceeds to block to disable the ability of the user to change the privacy setting. Flowchart then continues to decision block to determine if there is another profile property for the user. If the answer is yes then the logic returns to block . If the answer to decision block is no then flowchart ends.

Turning to embodiments of a preview functionality are shown. In a flowchart shows the logic and operations of a preview tool in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Starting in a block the user selects the desired privacy setting for preview. In the personal site of the user may use pull down menu to select the desired privacy setting. Continuing to block of flowchart a preview of the user s personal site is presented to the user in response to the selected privacy setting in the preview tool. Thus the user may verify what information will be displayed to a viewer having the selected relationship to the user.

In personal site is shown as would be seen by My Manager as selected in preview tool . Preview tool may be used by Fred Jones to see what his manager will see when viewing Fred Jones personal site .

In additional information is shown as compared to . In Everyone is selected in preview tool . In under details schools attended by Fred Jones appear as shown at . Under contact information home address and home phone may be viewed by Fred Jones manager. Under links a link to document My Annual Review is available to Fred Jones manager.

Turning to embodiments of managing privacy policy are shown. In flowchart shows an embodiment of the logic and operations of managing privacy policy settings. In one embodiment management of privacy policy may be performed by a system administrator or other authorized person.

In a management page is shown that allows a system administrator to manage privacy policy such as privacy policy for personal sites. In one embodiment management page is accessible using browser at client . Column shows user information i.e. profile properties colleagues memberships and links policy column shows the policy associated with the user information column shows the visibility associated with the user information and column shows whether the user has the ability to override the default privacy setting. In one embodiment a system administrator may modify any of the values in any of the columns of . It will be understood that embodiments of privacy policy management page are not limited to the user information as shown in

In column Colleagues show sources used to generate a My Colleagues suggested list for a user. In sources include email traffic distribution lists DLs that contain the user s email address and the user s instant messaging IM traffic.

Memberships show sources used to build MyMemberships for users. In sources include DL recommendations DLs that the user is a member of network site recommendations and collaborative recommendations. Network site recommendations include other sites of environment that the user is a member of for example Microsoft SharePoint sites . For example the user s workgroup may have its own site for sharing information with the entire organization. This workgroup site may be included under the user s memberships.

Collaborative memberships include networks sites that the user is not a member of but by using an algorithm the network sites are recommended as memberships for the user. In one embodiment the algorithm analyzes DLs and network sites that people on the user s DLs and network sites are members of that the user is not a member of. The algorithm then recommends at least some of these DLs and network sites as memberships for the user. In one embodiment the algorithm takes into account the size of the DLs and site memberships when suggesting collaborative memberships. DLs and site memberships with fewer members may be weighted more for inclusion in the collaborative memberships since the user is more likely to know people from smaller groups.

Links show sources for MyLinks on a user s personal site. Link sources include links on the user s personal site uploaded favorites such as from a browser and links to documents on other sites. As described above the user may be given the ability by a system administrator to control the privacy settings to each item listed under links.

In one embodiment policy column may have one of four values Mandatory Opt In Opt out and Disabled. For Mandatory the user information may not be left empty. For Opt In the user information may be left empty. For Opt out the user information value will be populated automatically be the system but the data may be actively removed by a user. Disabled is used for user information that is not used by the system. In other embodiments policy column may have one of two values Enabled and Disabled. In this embodiment for Enabled a visibility setting for the user information is functional and there are no requirements that the user information value be populated for Disabled the user information is not used by the system.

Visibility column defines the privacy setting for the user information. In the embodiment of the privacy settings include Only Me My Manager My Workgroup My Colleagues and Everyone. Override column indicates which user information has privacy settings that may be modified by a user. In column a no indicates the user cannot override the privacy setting and a yes indicates the user has been given the ability to override the privacy setting. The override settings may be modified by a system administrator via page .

Returning to at block a requester such as a system administrator may request a privacy policy management task. In one embodiment the requester may use a management page such as page to request the task. Embodiments of privacy policy management tasks include modifying privacy policy adding new user information disabling user information and generating an access control list described below . Next at block the requested task is performed. Continuing to block the result of performing the task is returned the requester. In one embodiment the request is received at portal application from a client. Portal application performs the task and returns the results of the task to the client. Returning the results may include showing a requested change in privacy policy on page .

In one embodiment of a privacy policy management task a system administrator may modify privacy policy settings. When privacy engine is first installed on server privacy settings may be set to pre determined default privacy settings. A system administrator may modify these default privacy settings at anytime. The system administrator may also modify which privacy settings may be overridden by users.

In one embodiment of a privacy policy management task a system administrator may add new user information to the system. As described above user information may be extensible. The privacy setting may be set when the new user information is added and modified at anytime later. The privacy settings model for the newly added user information is the same as for the other user information which eases use for users and system administrators.

In another embodiment of a privacy policy management task user information may be disabled. In this case the user information is not rendered on any personal sites. In one embodiment the user information may be disabled by setting the policy value in column to Disabled.

In one embodiment of a privacy policy management task an access control list may be generated from the privacy settings. For example a user s personal site may include a document library. The privacy setting for a document e.g. My Workgroup may be used to generate an access control list for the document. This access control list may be pushed to other systems e.g. Windows NT Security and used as a native access control list for the document.

Embodiments of the invention provide privacy settings for personal web sites on an organization s enterprise system. Privacy settings of a user s information may be set on a per item basis. A preview functionality allows a user to view information on their personal site as seen by others. Embodiments herein provide a system administrator the ability to modify system wide privacy policy and to add new user information as desired.

Additionally device may also have additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement embodiments of the invention may be stored in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Device may also include communication connection s that allow device to communicate with other devices such as a computing device through network . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency infrared and other wireless media.

Device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device laser range finder infra red cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included. Input devices and output devices may be coupled to computing device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In the following description and claims the term coupled and its derivatives may be used. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in contact physically electrically magnetically optically etc. . Coupled may also mean two or more elements are not in contact with each other but still cooperate or interact with each other for example communicatively coupled .

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments of the invention. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device . Those skilled in the art will also realize that all or a portion of the computer readable instructions may be carried out by a dedicated circuit such as a Digital Signal Processor DSP programmable logic array and the like.

Various operations of embodiments of the present invention are described herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment of the invention.

The above description of embodiments of the invention including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the embodiments to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments and examples of the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize in light of the above detailed description. The terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the invention to the specific embodiments disclosed in the specification. Rather the following claims are to be construed in accordance with established doctrines of claim interpretation.

