---

title: Integrated connection system
abstract: A modular connector system allows a user to configure physical and functional aspects of a sensor or electrical connector assembly to suit the requirements of a particular installation or application. A header module houses an electrical component, such as a photo sensor, a proximity switch, a safety sensor, etc. A variety of field modules and adapter modules are provided that can be selectively added to the header module to accommodate a wide range of applications. These field and adaptor modules can include power modules, communication modules, or other types of signal processing modules. The housings and electronics of the header, field, and adapter modules are designed such that the field and adapter modules can be rotated relative to the header module to suit physical environment of the connector's location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09634424&OS=09634424&RS=09634424
owner: Rockwell Automation Technologies, Inc.
number: 09634424
owner_city: Mayfield Heights
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140429
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 868 392 filed on Aug. 21 2013 entitled INTEGRATED CONNECTION SYSTEM the entirety of which is incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to a modular connector assembly capable of physical and electrical reconfiguration in the field and that allows different functional modules to be attached interchangeably to a common header module

Modern industrial automation and control systems typically include a number of field devices installed throughout the system including but not limited photo sensors proximity switches safety sensors and the like. These field devices often comprise a housing containing the device s internal electronic components and an interface port or cable that interfaces the device to a power supply and or to an outside system that exchanges data with the device such as an industrial controller.

The overall shape of such field devices is typically fixed and is partly a function of the dimensions of the housing and the location and orientation of the cable port which also determines the direction and orientation of the cable relative to the device housing. Although these features of the field devices device shape and cable orientation are generally fixed the physical parameters of the industrial environments in which these devices are installed can vary considerably between installation locations. Consequently the shape of the device and or the direction in which the cable enters the device may not be ideal for a particular installation location.

The above described deficiencies of today s electronic field devices are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with conventional systems and corresponding benefits of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following description.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview nor is intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of the various aspects described herein. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later

One or more embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a modular connection system that allows a user to configure multiple physical or functional aspects of a field device e.g. a sensor a switch etc. in order to conform to the conditions of a particular installation location or application. To this end various types of modular components are provided that can be combined to yield a device assembly suitable for a particular industrial application. The modular components are configured to be combinable according to at least two different orientations relative to each other where each orientation yields a different overall shape and cable orientation for the device. This configuration allows the user to select a shape that best suits the unique conditions of the installation location.

The modular components can include header module that houses electrical components e.g. a photo sensor proximity switch safety sensor etc. field modules with associated cables or interface ports that can be attached to the header module to create a power or signaling interface to the electronic component adaptor modules that can be attached to the header module and which can perform signal processing or power transformation on incoming signals or power or other such modules. Header modules are compatible with any type of field or interface module affording the user a degree of control over the functionality and shape of the resulting field device. For example the modular system allows the user to choose the electrical options needed for a particular sensing application and to physically reconfigure the assembly to fit the installation requirements of the particular application.

Moreover the electrical interfaces of the header field and adapter modules are designed such that the user can re orient a multi conductor connector without the need to re wire the electrical connection. For example the contacts of the module interfaces can be designed such that rotating the field or adapter module 180 degrees relative to the header module causes the pin outs between the header module and the field adapter module to be automatically reconfigured for proper signal or power exchange. Also by providing different types of adapter modules supporting different communication capabilities e.g. Ethernet Bluetooth etc. the system allows the user to easily select or modify a communication protocol for the field device.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways which can be practiced all of which are intended to be covered herein. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Various aspects of this disclosure are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It should be understood however that certain aspects of this disclosure may be practiced without these specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

The modular connection system described herein can allow a user to configure multiple facets of a sensor or electrical connector assembly to suit the requirements of a particular installation or application. This can include configuration of both physical and functional aspects of the connector assembly. To this end an electrical component e.g. a photo sensor a proximity switch a safety sensor or substantially any type of electrical component can be housed in a header module. A variety of field modules and adapter modules are provided that can be selectively added to the header module to accommodate a wide range of applications. These field and adaptor modules can include power modules e.g. DC AC etc. communication modules e.g. Ethernet Bluetooth etc. or other types of signal processing modules. The housings and electronics of the header field and adapter modules are designed such that the field and adapter modules can be rotated relative to the header module to suit physical environment of the connector s location.

Adapter interface has an attached cable or connector port for receiving a multi conductor cable comprising conductors for conveying signal and or power to be mated with an external connector. Examples of mated connectors include but are not limited to M5 M8 M12 and 20 threaded connectors. The conductors of the multi conductor cable are electrically connected to the conductive contacts of adapter interface such that adapter interface passes signals and or power between the cable conductors and the electrical contacts of header interface when adapter module is attached to header module . The multi conductor cable will typically terminate at a customer facing connector or device not shown at the opposite end of the cable. The location and orientation of cable or connector port is not limited to the location and orientation depicted in . Rather various embodiments of adapter module can include cable ports positioned at any suitable location on the module see e.g. discussed below 

In one or more embodiments the mechanisms for connecting header module to adapter module are configured to allow adapter module to be connected to header module in either of two possible orientations a first orientation or a second orientation that is rotated 180 degrees relative to the first orientation. This modular connector design can allow the user to select or change the orientation of the connector assembly to suit the physical environment of the connector. depict the header module and adapter module oriented in the first orientation. When assembled in the first orientation cable port extends from the rear surface of the resulting sensor assembly and the height of the sensor assembly is greater than the depth.

In addition to adapter module header module is also configured to be compatible with another type of module referred to herein as a field module. illustrate three dimensional views of a header module and a field module according to one or more embodiments. Similar to adapter module field module includes an attached cable or connector port for receiving a multi conductor cable or to be mated with an external connector having conductors that are electrically connected to the contacts of field module interface allowing power and or signals to pass between the contacts of header interface and the conductors of the multi conductor cable when field module is attached to header module . Guide rails on field module are designed to slot into guide grooves of header module to ensure proper alignment of the modules before the interfaces are connected. Like adapter module field module can be attached to header module in either of two orientations. illustrate header module and field module oriented in the first orientation. illustrate header module and field module oriented in the second orientation which is achieved by rotating field module 180 degrees relative to the first orientation.

In general field module and adapter module differ in that field module performs no processing or manipulation of power or signals passed between header module and the cable or connector port whereas adapter module can include circuitry and or software for processing or manipulating the power signals passed between header module and the cable or connector port thereby enhancing operation of header module . For example one type of header module e.g. a sensor header module may be configured to operate on DC power. In this scenario a field module may be used to deliver DC power to header module . Accordingly the customer side end of a cable or mated connector running through cable or connector port may be wired or plugged into a DC power source such that DC power is supplied to the header module via field module interface and header interface when field module is connected to header module . Another type of field module may be used to pass signaling instead of or in addition to DC power between header module and customer equipment at the customer end of the cable if no processing or manipulation of the signaling is required between header module and the customer equipment.

Adapter module may also be used to deliver power to header module . However whereas field module is used to deliver DC power which requires no conditioning or transformation prior to delivery to the header module adapter module can be configured to supply AC power to header module . In such applications adapter module can include power conditioning components e.g. a transformer or other power conditioning circuitry required to transform incoming AC power to a voltage level required for the electrical component housed by header module . Another example adapter module may include circuitry and or software for processing signals passed between header module and devices at the customer end of the multi conductor cable or mated connector. For example various protocol specific adapter modules may be provided that support a range of communication protocols e.g. Ethernet signals Bluetooth signals etc. . The modular connector design described herein can thus allow a user to easily select or change a communication protocol for communicating with header module by selection of a suitable adapter module .

As shown on a retractable locking tongue locks adapter module or field module to header module by sliding into a locking notch . Although the drawings depict locking tongue as residing on the header module and latching notch as located on the adapter module or field module locking tongue may reside on adapter module or field module rather than on header module in some embodiments. Accordingly locking notch will be located on header module in such embodiments. Once locked retractable locking tongue can be retracted into the housing of header module to unlock and remove the module. Although depict a retractable locking tongue as the locking mechanism any suitable locking mechanism for affixing adapter module to header module is within the scope of one or more embodiments of this disclosure including but not limited to internal clips external clips or screws.

As shown in it can be seen that the first orientation results a sensor assembly that is longer in the X direction than in the Y direction with the cable or connector port extending from a bottom surface of the assembly.

As shown in the contacts of adapter interface are offset in the second orientation relative to the first orientation such that the adapter interface contacts now connect to the upper row of contacts of header interface . As will be explained in more detail below the header interface is designed to ensure that correct electrical interfacing between the adapter interface and the electrical circuitry housed within header module is maintained in both the first and second orientations without the need to rewire the modules.

The modular design described above allows the user to set the desired assembly orientation as needed to suit the physical limitations of the installation environment. Since the adapter interface is rotated 180 degrees between the first and second orientations while the orientation of header interface remains constant the adapter and header interfaces are configured such that the electrical connections between the adapter interface and the header module circuitry remain the same in both orientations thereby mitigating the need to rewire the modules when the adapter module orientation is changed. Moreover as can be seen in the plane of the connection interface between the header interface and the adapter interface faces substantially 45 degrees relative to the x or y direction. Since the cable or connector port faces generally in the x direction or the y direction in these illustrated examples the 45 degree orientation of the connection interface can mitigate the amount of cable pull force that is transferred to the connection interface reducing the possibility of accidental disassembly of the components due to tension on the cable.

The second row of contacts of header interface can be cross wired into the component circuitry of header module relative to the first row of contacts as represented by the reverse numbering of the second row of contacts. For example if the connector assembly is used for a safety application contacts 1 5 may represent respectively 1 DC Power Input 2 Ground 3 OSSD output signal switching device Output 4 Safety Input and 5 Lock Command. For sensing applications contacts 1 5 may represent 1 Input 2 Output and 3 5 Teach. As illustrated in when the adapter module is connected to the header module in the first orientation the contacts of adapter interface connect to the corresponding contacts of the first row of contacts of header interface . If the adapter module is connected to the header module in the second orientation as illustrated in the adapter interface is rotated 180 degrees reversing the order of the electrical contacts. The interfaces are designed such that the contacts of adapter interface and field module interface are offset in the second orientation relative to the first orientation causing the interface contacts to connect to the second row of contacts of the header interface which are cross wired relative to the first row. Thus the correct electrical interfacing is maintained between the contacts of adapter interface or field module interface and the electrical component housed in the header module.

In another example design the header interface may comprise only a single row of electrical contacts the pin outs of which can be electronically reconfigured using circuitry and or software within the header module depending on the orientation of the adapter module or field module . illustrate an example design that automatically reconfigures the contacts of the header interface based on a detected orientation of the adapter module or field module . In this example the header interface includes an orientation detection component that determines whether the adapter or field module is connected in the first or second orientation. In an example design header interface may include two additional contacts P1 and P2 for identifying the orientation of the adapter or field module. In this example when the adapter module or field module is connected to the header module in the first orientation as shown in a position detection contact on the adapter or field module interface makes contact with a corresponding first position detection contact P1 on the header interface. Orientation detection component detects this connection and configures pin out circuitry to electronically connect the contacts of the header interface to the appropriate nodes of header module circuitry . Alternatively when the adapter module or field module is connected to the header module in the second orientation as illustrated in the orientation detection contact of adapter module or field module makes contact with a corresponding second position detection contact P2 on the header interface. Accordingly orientation detection component configures pin out circuitry to cross connect the contacts of the header interface relative to the first orientation ensuring that the contacts of adapter module or field module connect to the correct nodes of header module circuitry in this orientation without the need to manually rewire the modules.

Some embodiments of the orientation detection component can be configured to delay the electrical connection between the header module and adapter field module signal lines until the relative orientation of the modules is resolved. In such embodiments the pin out circuitry may be initially configured to prevent signaling throughput between the pins of the adapter field module and the header module circuitry . When the adapter field module is initially connected to the header module the pin out circuitry prevents signal throughput until orientation detection component positively confirms which of the two orientations has been selected. In response to determining the orientation the orientation detection component will configure the correct signaling connectivity in pin out circuitry and instruct the pin out circuitry to allow signaling throughput between the two modules. By delaying the signaling throughput until the module orientation is positively confirmed the design can prevent momentarily incorrect signal connections between the adapter field module and header module at the moment the modules are physically connected.

Any suitable technique for determining an orientation of the adapter or field module is within the scope of one or more embodiments of this disclosure. For example in one or more embodiments the orientation detection function can be performed without using additional contacts P1 and P2 but rather by sensing the polarity of the DC power input and ground contacts or by sensing the direction of current through an orientation detection circuit which can be a function of the module orientation .

Other automatic configuration capabilities are also considered. For example in one or more embodiments if the adapter module comprises a serial interface the header and or adapter module may initiate arbitration and detection between the header module and the adapter module. One or both of the header module and or adapter module can then automatically adjust a module configuration based on a result of the arbitration and detection.

As noted above the connector design described above in connection with adapter module can also be used to attach a field module to header module . illustrates a three dimensional view of a field module attached to header module in a first orientation. is a two view drawing of the resulting sensor assembly. Similar to adapter interface field module interface includes a single row of electrical contacts that is configured to connect to one of the two rows of corresponding electrical contacts and of header interface depending on the orientation of field module . As shown in field module interface interfaces with the upper row of contacts of header interface while in the first orientation.

Although the foregoing examples described the adapter and field modules as comprising guide rails and that are used to align those modules with header module during assembly it is to be appreciated that any suitable connection mechanism is within the scope of one or more embodiments of this disclosure. For example is a two view drawing illustrating an alternative alingment mechanism for joining adapter module with header module . In this example adapter module comprises a locking edge configured to slot into either of two corresponding locking grooves of header module . depicts adapter module attached in the first orientation such that locking edge is slotted into the lower of the two locking grooves . This example design also differs from the previously described design in that adapter module rather than header module includes a retractable locking tongue that slots into a groove of header module to facilitate locking adapter module in place. depicts a closer view of this connection mechanism. Although depict the locking tongue as being retractable under a lip of the adapter module other embodiments of this locking mechanism may comprise a spring loaded locking tongue that is flush with the surface of the adapter module such that the top surface of the locking tongue is exposed. This configuration may result in a smoother module surface with fewer raised surfaces mitigating collection of excess dirt.

The foregoing examples are only intended to be illustrative and it is to be appreciated that any orientation detection and pin out reconfiguration techniques are within the scope of one or more embodiments of this disclosure.

The modular connector design described herein offers a number of benefits. For example the ability to re orient the adapter and field modules relative the header module without manually rewiring the modules allows the user to physically reconfigure the connector as needed even if the physical limitations of the installation area are not known until installation takes place. Also by providing a variety of field and adapter modules having different functionalities e.g. different power conditioning modules different types of communication modules etc. which are physically and electrically compatible with a common header module can allow customers and distributers to stock lower cost modules rather than complete sensors of different types thereby lowering inventory costs and allowing for greater design flexibility.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the disclosed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the disclosed subject matter includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the disclosed subject matter.

In addition while a particular feature of the disclosed subject matter may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

In this application the word exemplary is used to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer controller terminal station node interface are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to or that is part of an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical or magnetic storage medium including affixed e.g. screwed or bolted or removable affixed solid state storage drives an object an executable a thread of execution a computer executable program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also components as described herein can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface layer controller terminal and the like.

As used herein the terms to infer and inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of controllers includes one or more controllers a set of data resources includes one or more data resources etc. Likewise the term group as utilized herein refers to a collection of one or more entities e.g. a group of nodes refers to one or more nodes.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches also can be used.

