---

title: Identification of a broker-type leader in a social network
abstract: Techniques for identification of a broker-type leader in a social network based on network topology are described. According to various embodiments, an electronic sociograph is accessed, the electronic sociograph depicting a plurality of actors of an online social network service as nodes in the sociograph, and the sociograph including edges between the nodes representing relationships between the respective actors. Thereafter, a particular node in the sociograph corresponding to an information connector node between at least two distinct groups of the nodes in the sociograph is identified. A particular actor of the plurality of actors associated with the particular node is then classified as an information connector between at least two sub-networks of the actors of the online social network service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582836&OS=09582836&RS=09582836
owner: LinkedIn Corporation
number: 09582836
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140606
---
This application claims the priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 886 284 filed Oct. 3 2013 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 986 817 filed Apr. 30 2014 each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present application relates generally to data processing systems and in one specific example to techniques for identification of a broker type leader in a social network based on network topology.

Online social network services such as the LinkedIn social network feature a large number of members that can interact with various products and content items associated with the online social network service. For example members of the LinkedIn social network have profile pages describing information about themselves and these members can interact with content posted in a content feed such as the Network Update Stream of the online social network service or they can interact with profile pages of other members and entities of the online social network service such as groups companies universities and so on.

Example methods and systems for identification of a broker type leader in a social network based on network topology are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

As shown in the data layer includes several databases such as a database for storing profile data including both member profile data as well as profile data for various organizations. Consistent with some embodiments when a person initially registers to become a member of the social network service the person will be prompted to provide some personal information such as his or her name age e.g. birthdate gender interests contact information hometown address the names of the member s spouse and or family members educational background e.g. schools majors matriculation and or graduation dates etc. employment history skills professional organizations and so on. This information is stored for example in the database with reference number . Similarly when a representative of an organization initially registers the organization with the social network service the representative may be prompted to provide certain information about the organization. This information may be stored for example in the database with reference number or another database not shown . With some embodiments the profile data may be processed e.g. in the background or offline to generate various derived profile data. For example if a member has provided information about various job titles the member has held with the same company or different companies and for how long this information can be used to infer or derive a member profile attribute indicating the member s overall seniority level or seniority level within a particular company. With some embodiments importing or otherwise accessing data from one or more externally hosted data sources may enhance profile data for both members and organizations. For instance with companies in particular financial data may be imported from one or more external data sources and made part of a company s profile.

Once registered a member may invite other members or be invited by other members to connect via the social network service. A connection may require a bi lateral agreement by the members such that both members acknowledge the establishment of the connection. Similarly with some embodiments a member may elect to follow another member. In contrast to establishing a connection the concept of following another member typically is a unilateral operation and at least with some embodiments does not require acknowledgement or approval by the member that is being followed. When one member follows another the member who is following may receive status updates or other messages published by the member being followed or relating to various activities undertaken by the member being followed. Similarly when a member follows an organization the member becomes eligible to receive messages or status updates published on behalf of the organization. For instance messages or status updates published on behalf of an organization that a member is following will appear in the member s personalized data feed or content stream. In any case the various associations and relationships that the members establish with other members or with other entities and objects are stored and maintained within the social graph shown in with reference number .

The social network service may provide a broad range of other applications and services that allow members the opportunity to share and receive information often customized to the interests of the member. For example with some embodiments the social network service may include a photo sharing application that allows members to upload and share photos with other members. With some embodiments members may be able to self organize into groups or interest groups organized around a subject matter or topic of interest. With some embodiments the social network service may host various job listings providing details of job openings with various organizations.

As members interact with the various applications services and content made available via the social network service the members behavior e.g. content viewed links or member interest buttons selected etc. may be monitored and information concerning the member s activities and behavior may be stored for example as indicated in by the database with reference number . This information may be used to classify the member as being in various categories. For example if the member performs frequent searches of job listings thereby exhibiting behavior indicating that the member is a likely job seeker this information can be used to classify the member as a job seeker. This classification can then be used as a member profile attribute for purposes of enabling others to target the member for receiving messages or status updates. Accordingly a company that has available job openings can publish a message that is specifically directed to certain members of the social network service who are job seekers and thus more likely to be receptive to recruiting efforts.

With some embodiments the social network system includes what is generally referred to herein as a social relevance analysis system . The is described in more detail below in conjunction with .

Although not shown with some embodiments the social network system provides an application programming interface API module via which third party applications can access various services and data provided by the social network service. For example using an API a third party application may provide a user interface and logic that enables an authorized representative of an organization to publish messages from a third party application to a content hosting platform of the social network service that facilitates presentation of activity or content streams maintained and presented by the social network service. Such third party applications may be browser based applications or may be operating system specific. In particular some third party applications may reside and execute on one or more mobile devices e.g. phone or tablet computing devices having a mobile operating system. The operation of the social relevance analysis system will be described in more detail below in connection with various embodiments.

According to various example embodiments described herein the social relevance analysis system hereinafter the system may be configured to generate and or access a sociograph associated with one or more online social networks. A sociograph is a graphical structure with nodes and edges wherein the nodes represent actors and the edges between the nodes represent relationships between the corresponding actors.

Various conventional online social networks such as Facebook may be associated with simplified friend graphs or connection graphs. However such graphs merely represent one type of basic relationship between different members of the online social network. For example a Facebook friend graph merely represents how users are connected to each other through friendship relationships only.

In contrast according to various example embodiments described herein sociographs may be annotated by the system with rich and deep information that describes all possible relationships between actors. That is the system enables a sociograph to become a generalization of all possible relationships between actors that are formed into a graphical structure. Accordingly the sociographs described herein are far more complex intricate and nuanced than simple friendship graphs or connection graphs that represent basic relationship between different users.

As described in more detail below by leveraging all available information with respect to an online social network e.g. profile information of members of the social network people s group memberships on the social network social activity signals with respect to the social network and so on the system is able to generate extremely rich annotations for the edges between actors.

As described above nodes in a sociograph may represent actors. In some embodiments the actors may correspond to either members or entities. A member may be a member of an online social network service such as LinkedIn Facebook Twitter etc. In some embodiments a member may correspond to influencers on the LinkedIn online social network service. An entity may be a company business enterprise institute school university organization group publication Journal club or other entity. In some embodiments the entities may be content producing entities e.g. a group on a social network service such as LinkedIn a university etc. . illustrates an example of a sociograph that identifies various actors such as user X user Y user Z and University.

As described above nodes in the sociograph may represent actors and edges between the nodes in the sociograph may represent the relationships between the actors. For example with reference to the example sociograph illustrated in the sociograph includes edges extended between the nodes representing user X user Y user Z and University which represent the relationships between these actors. As described in more detail below in some embodiments a relationship may correspond to a connection a role or a homophily.

According to various example embodiments a connection relationship between actors may signify that for example the actors are directly connected e.g. as friends on Facebook or as connections on LinkedIn .

According to various example embodiments a role relationship between actors may signify either a formal role or an informal role. Formal roles are also called named roles from a social science perspective and examples of formal roles in various society structures include an employer employee relationship a supervisor subordinate relationship a colleague colleague relationship and so on. On the other hand informal roles which are also called unnamed roles from a social science perspective signify less defined relationships between actors such as when two actors are alumni of the same organization e.g. alumni alumni or when two actors are friends neighbors former colleagues etc. Accordingly in some embodiments the difference between formal and informal roles in many society structures may be that formal roles are more well defined and carry with them the expectation of authority and responsibilities whereas informal roles e.g. neighbors are relatively undefined in comparison. With reference to the example sociograph illustrated in user X and user Z have a relationship corresponding to a formal role of supervisor subordinate whereas user Y and user Z have relationship corresponding to an informal role alumni alumni .

According to various example embodiments a homophily relationship between actors represents shared attributes such as shared interests e.g. shared affiliations shared topical interests etc. shared demographics e.g. age gender location of employer location of home employment history education background etc. and so on. For example in a LinkedIn space user X and user Y may have a homophily because they re both located in Silicon Valley e.g. they have the shared attribute of location or because they have a shared interest in some topical space such as Big Data and so on. As another example perhaps both user X and user Y are both members of or are interested in a particular group or work in the same company or have the same role and so on. With reference to the example sociograph illustrated in it can be seen that user X and user Y have a relationship corresponding to homophily or shared interest s . Other non limiting examples of attributes that may be shared include for example age gender location skills current or previous employer size of employer position or job seniority level current or previous schools education interests e.g. based on preferences purchase history viewing history browsing history social activity signals membership in groups on a social network service companies being followed groups being followed influencers being followed schools or universities being followed etc. number of connections identity of connections and the like.

According to various example embodiments the system is configured to determine the relationship between actors e.g. based on member profile data of the actors on a social network service such as LinkedIn and to annotate the edges between the nodes corresponding to the actors in a sociograph based on the aforementioned relationships. In some embodiments data corresponding to the sociograph may be stored in a database. Note that there may be multiple relationships between two actors such as when the two actors have a formal role and an informal role and shared interests attributes and so on. Accordingly the system is capable of annotating multifaceted relationships between various actors.

In some embodiments there may also be much richer deeper annotations on a sociograph that are generated by the system . For example as illustrated in the example sociograph illustrated in user Y graduated from University and thus has relationship e.g. alumni or graduate with that university that can be annotated in association with an edge of the sociograph between the corresponding nodes. Such examples may apply to other entities that may not be universities e.g. employers companies groups on a social network service such as LinkedIn and so on . As described in more detail below the system may also annotate the sociograph with interactions between actors such as annotations signifying that a particular Institute or University certified the user Y with a degree or PhD in computer science.

In some embodiments relationship attributes associated with actors may be annotated by the system as directed and undirected edges in a sociograph. For example directed graph edges of a sociograph may have a specific direction which may be visually represented by a unidirectional arrow on the edges whereas undirected or bidirectional graph edges in a sociograph may be two way and need not have specific direction which may be visually represented by edges without any arrows or alternatively by edges having bidirectional arrows . In some embodiments the system may annotate edges of the sociograph with a specific direction in order to indicate various aspects of relationships between the corresponding actors. For example if a first actor and a second actor work at the same organization and have a supervisor subordinate relationship within the organization then a directed edge or arrow between the actors may indicate a specific direction extending from the second actor to the first actor to indicate that the second actor subordinate reports to the first actor supervisor within the hierarchical structure of the organization. On the other hand if a first actor and a second actor working at the same organization and have a colleague colleague relationship within the organization then a bidirectional edge or arrow between the actors may indicate the bidirectional nature of the relationship between the colleagues within the hierarchical structure of the organization

According to various example embodiments described in more detail below the system may annotate or weight the edges of the sociograph with weights referred to herein as Relationship Weights representing a measure of the strength of the underlying relationship. For example a supervisor subordinate Relationship Weight may be associated with an edge representing a supervisor subordinate relationship where the supervisor subordinate Relationship Weight may be determined based on the number of years of collaboration in the supervisor subordinate relationship the number of years the supervisor subordinate relationship has existed and so on. As another example the supervisor subordinate Relationship Weight may represent a distance within the organizational chart in the hierarchy of the company or business e.g. a direct supervisor relationship may be annotated with a stronger weighting in comparison to an indirect supervisor relationship .

According to various example embodiments the system may annotate a sociograph with flows or interactions between actors. As described herein a flow represents an interaction between actors. Interactions may take many non limiting forms and may include various types of actions indicating that the actors interacted with each other. Non limiting examples of flows or interactions between users include when an actor interacts e.g. views clicks likes comments on shares follows suggests hides etc. with any content e.g. a post comment status update etc. posted by or associated with another actor. Another example of a flow or interaction is when an actor messages another actor such as a 1 1 flow indicating a communication e.g. e mail message text message instant message team feed message etc. transmitted from a first actor to a second actor or a 1 n communication transmitted from a first actor to a plurality of other actors. Another example of a flow or interaction is when a first actor endorses a second actor e.g. by endorsing a skill of the second actor on a member profile page of the second actor or when a first actor recommends a second actor e.g. by posting recommendation on a member profile page of the second actor . Another example of a flow or interaction is when a first actor e.g. a university or company endorses a second actor e.g. a member as having a PhD degree in Computer Science or as having work experience in HTML.

For example referring back to there is a flow or interaction between user Y and user X since user Y liked a megaphone post that was posted by user X e.g. a post in a group or a content feed of a social network service such as LinkedIn . Moreover as illustrated in there is a flow or interaction between the user Z and the user X since user Z endorsed a skill of user X e.g. user Z endorsed the skill Relevance on the member profile page of the user X . Similarly there is another flow or interaction between the user Y and user X since the user Y endorsed the skill of user X e.g. user Y endorsed the skill Relevance on the member profile page of the user X .

As described in more detail below the term concept as utilized throughout this disclosure has two separate applications or uses. In a first example embodiment the term concept refers to the content of a flow or interaction. In a second example embodiment the term concept refers to a leadership description for the purposes of evaluating and substantiating leadership.

According to a first example embodiment the content of a flow or interaction between actors may represent a generic concept. Thus the generic concept may capture the essence of an interaction. With reference to the sociograph illustrated in for example a flow corresponds to a user Y interacting with a megaphone post or news article that was posted by user X e.g. by liking commenting on sharing following etc. the post or article and thus the concept that is the content of this flow or interaction is the underlying megaphone post or news article which can be characterized by the topics the article covers. As another example a flow or interaction may correspond to the user Y endorsing a skill Relevance of the user X and the concept that is the content of this interaction is the underlying skill Relevance of the user X e.g. X knows Relevance that was endorsed. As another example the sociograph in indicates that the member Charlie Jones has posted an article on Trends and Outliers and the member Jane Doe has liked this article posted by Charlie Jones. In this case the flow between Jane Doe and Charlie Jones corresponds to Jane Doe s interaction with the article posted by Charlie Jones. Accordingly the content of this flow is the underlying article which represents the generic concept of this flow.

According to a second example embodiment a concept may refer to an unsubstantiated leadership description to be evaluated such as Charlie is a leader on Big Data see . As described in more detail below the system is configured to evaluate the degree to which this concept or leadership description is substantiated in the social sense based on a sociograph representing an online social network and the annotated information associated with this sociograph. More specifically a reputation system may be utilized by the system to determine to what degree a concept or leadership description is substantiated based on decisions evaluations and votes by actors in an online social network with respect to this concept or leadership description. For example once a system identifies a concept such as actor X knows subject S the system determines whether the concept actor X knows subject S is substantiated by the social network of X based on decisions evaluations and voting activity by the social network of X. Moreover by substantiating such a concept the system is able to determine leaders of the social network based on reputation. For example after the system substantiates the concept of actor X knows subject S based on the decisions evaluations and voting activity by the social network of X the system may determine that X is a reputation leader for the underlying subject S. Such aspects are described in greater detail below.

Accordingly to various example embodiments a grand unified sociograph may be annotated by the system to capture all relationship information accessed or maintained by the system . In some embodiments depending on the kind of leadership or social relevance aspects that may be of interest to the system at a given time there may be a subset of those relationships in the grander sociograph that may make more sense and or are of greater value.

For example in various example embodiments a grand unified sociograph can be leveraged by the system to generate sub sociographs that are customized for a particular application. Such sub sociographs may also be referred to herein as contextual sociographs since these sociographs may be contextual depending on what the system is analyzing. In some embodiments the system may generate the sub sociographs by applying different contextual weights to the different relationships in the grander sociograph to represent the importance or relevance of certain relationships to a particular application or in a particular context. For example the relationships having greater importance in a particular context may be assigned higher contextual weights and may be utilized to generate a corresponding contextualized sociograph for this particular context which may or may not feature the relationships having lower contextual weights for this particular context.

Note that the contextual weights of relationships or edges described here may be distinct from the relationship weights of relationships or edges described above. More specifically a relationship weight provides a measure of the strength of the underlying relationship. In contrast a contextual weight signifies the relevance of a relationship in a particular context or application e.g. the relevance of the relationship for the purposes of discovery and analysis of various leadership types as described in more detail below . Thus it is understood that a single relationship between two actors as represented by a single edge between two nodes may be associated with both a particular relationship weight and one or more contextual weights with respect to various applications and contexts.

As one example of contextual weights if the system is attempting to understand information flow between actors then sociograph components or annotations indicating whether members belong to a certain alumni may be less relevant whereas shared interests or attributes e.g. location group member etc. between members may become more important. Accordingly the system may apply different contextual weights to each of the relationships in the sociograph in order to generate a contextualized sub sociograph.

As another example of contextual weights with reference to the example sociograph in suppose the system is attempting to focus on topical interest e.g. an interest in the topic of Big Data . In this case some relationships in the sociograph may be more valuable than others. For example even though Vincent Smith is not a network connection of Jane Doe or Charlie Jones Vincent Smith has a group membership in a Big Data group which is of importance and relevance to the topical interest of Big Data . On the other hand the supervisor subordinate relationship between Jane Doe and J C Johnson may not be as important from this perspective. Accordingly the system may process the sociograph illustrated in to generate the sub sociograph or contextual sociograph illustrated in that emphasizes or weights certain relationships above others by applying greater contextual weights to these relationships in comparison to others . For example the group membership of Charlie Jones Jane Doe and Vincent Smith in the group Big Data and Search Engine Land may be assigned higher contextual weights and the fact that Charlie Jones and J C Johnson are co authors on a paper in this space may also be assigned a higher contextual weight. Accordingly this subset of the sociograph in becomes a true contextualized sociograph in and of itself in this particular context of the topical interest of Big Data .

As another example of contextual weights with reference again to the example sociograph in suppose the system is attempting to focus on personal network relationships. In this case the relationship between Jane Doe and J C Johnson may make more sense because it is a true personal working relationship even though they may not work together on the topical space Big Data . Accordingly the system may consider the relationship between Jane Doe and J C Johnson to be much stronger and more important in this context and the system may apply high contextual weight to this relationship accordingly in the sub sociograph in . Similarly the homophily e.g. shared location network connection and the colleague colleague role that Jane Doe shares with Charlie Jones may become important in the sub sociograph or contextual sociograph in and the system may apply higher contextual weights to these relationships. On the other hand the relationships between Vincent Smith and the other actors may be less relevant since he has no personal network relationships with the other actors and the system may apply lower contextual weights to these relationships accordingly such that the resulting sub sociograph does not reflect these relationships.

As another example described in more detail below in accordance with various example embodiments relationships on a sociograph may be annotated by the system with different contextual weights for the purposes of the analysis and discovery of various leader types. For example as described in more detail below the system may determine different types of leaders in an online social network and different relationships between actors in the sociograph may carry different contextual weight with respect to different leader types. For example when the system is attempting to identify a Trigger type leader certain relationships between actors will become more important e.g. shared group affiliation and others will become less important e.g. formal roles . Thus based on a single grand unified sociograph representing all relationships the system may identify a subset of relationships that are relevant to different types of leadership and the system may thereby derive and generate different contextual sociographs in connection with efforts to identify different leader types.

Accordingly the grand unified sociograph described herein may be annotated and processed to reveal different network topologies and to generate different sub sociographs. Once the system analyzes a particular sub sociograph or contextual sociograph then the system can analyze the relevant social interactions between actors represented therein. Moreover as described in more detail below the system may optimize for information cascade a.k.a. diffusion optimization and or adoption based on a subset of a sociograph e.g. the contextual sociographs described above .

According to various example embodiments the system is configured to identify different types of leaders within an online social network. In some embodiments the system may identify the leaders utilizing the unified sociographs and contextual sociographs described above. Examples of different types of leaders include an Authority type leader a Propagator type leader a Trigger type leader and a Broker type leader.

As described in more detail below each of the aforementioned leader types may be defined in conjunction with different types of social capital e.g. information relationships or resources in an online social network service. For example in some embodiments an Authority type leader may be defined as an actor that possesses a particular type of social capital e.g. information relationships or resources or has a high influence within a network with respect to a particular type of social capital e.g. information relationships or resources . As another example in some embodiments a Propagator type leader may be defined as an actor that sources or spreads i.e. amplifies the reach of a particular type of social capital e.g. information relationships or resources within an online social network. As another example in some embodiments a Trigger type leader may be defined as an actor that stimulates or seeds various activities of other members of an online social network with respect to a particular type of social capital e.g. information relationships or resources . As another example in some embodiments a Broker type leader may be defined as an actor that serves as a bridge connecting two or more sub networks with respect to a particular type of social capital e.g. information relationships or resources .

The characteristics of each type of leader and how these characteristics tie back into the sociograph structure described above will now be discussed in greater detail. Summaries of some of the characteristics of each type of leader as illustrated in the table in .

As described in more detail below the system is configured to identify leaders using two distinct techniques. More specifically the system may identify leaders based on reputation and the system may identify leaders based on connectedness by network topology. Note that the application of these techniques is not mutually exclusive and the system may utilize these techniques in combination or separately. For example the system may detect a Propagator based on reputation or the system may identify a Propagator based on connectedness by network apology or the system may detect a Propagator based on both reputation and connectedness by network topology.

According to various example embodiments the different leader types may apply to all actor types in the context of the sociograph. More specifically a leader may either be a member e.g. personal or individual or an entity e.g. a content producing entity . For example a university may be an Authority type leader on computer science or a company may be an Authority type leader on search engines or a group may be a Propagator type leader on microeconomics or a group may be a Trigger type leader on Big Data and so on.

According to various example embodiments an Authority type leader may be defined as an actor that possesses or provides access to a particular type of social capital e.g. information relationships or resources or has a high influence within a network with respect to a particular type of social capital e.g. information relationships or resources .

For example an Information Authority type leader may be defined as an actor that possesses or provides access to the particular social capital of information or has a high influence within a network with respect to the social capital of information. As another example a Relationship Authority type leader may be defined as an actor that possesses or provides access to the particular social capital of relationships or has a high influence within a network with respect to the social capital of relationships. As another example a Resources Authority type leader may be defined as an actor that possesses or provides access to the particular social capital of resources or has a high influence within a network with respect to the social capital of resources.

According to various example embodiments such an Authority type leader may be identified by reputation using a reputation mechanism to determine whether network members have decided that the actor is an Authority e.g. an Information Authority in a particular topical field or space . More specifically a reputation mechanism of the system may analyze decisions evaluations and voting activity of other actors in a social network with respect to concepts and based on this information the reputation mechanism may determine a reputation score associated with an actor. Such a reputation score may then be utilized to determine whether the actor is an Authority type leader or not.

According to various example embodiments an Information Authority type leader may be defined as an actor that possesses or provides access to the particular social capital of information or has a high influence within a network with respect to the social capital of information.

More specifically in some embodiments an Information Authority also referred to herein as an expert may be an actor that is an authoritative expert in a particular topic or space. In some embodiments the role of an Information Authority is to create endorse certify and or curate information. For example an Information Authority on Big Data may write an article on Big Data and post it on an online social network or may share promote or suggest an article on Big Data to other members and so on. Accordingly in some embodiments Information Authority type leadership may be topical in that the Authority type leader is an expert on a particular topic e.g. Big Data . One specific example of an Information Authority type leader is an academic expert in a particular field or topic.

With reference back to the sociograph framework described above an Information Authority type leader may be identified based on decisions from other actors in a social network. Examples of such decisions include when other actors endorse a particular member for a skill on their profile page or when other actors view like share suggests follow comment on etc. a post by the particular member that is related to a given topic. Other examples of decisions include when a university certifies or endorses a member as having a machine learning PhD degree or when a publication has accepted a paper or a certain number of papers associated with the member or when other papers authored by other members include citations to a paper authored by the member or when a member co authors a paper with other members and so on. As another example a group may certify the member as having some type of position within the group e.g. moderator conference chair leader etc. .

Since some of these example relationships are more pertinent or contextual than others for the determination of an Information Authority type leader the system may process a sociograph in order to generate a sub sociograph or contextual sociograph that contextually weights these types of relationships higher than other types of relationships.

In some embodiments Information Authority type leadership can be local or global. For example the system may determine that a particular actor is a leader within a specific local sub network based on the voting or decision activity by members in the sub network even though that particular actor may not be considered a leader in a larger social network. On the other hand the decisions or voting activity by actors in the greater social network may indicate that a particular actor is a leader with respect to the global social network.

In some embodiments the system treats leadership as transitive such that Information Authority type leadership on a particular topic can also be generalized beyond that particular topic to other topics. In other words users may trust the opinion of the Information Authority on a certain topical space and this may be transitive to the global space. For example suppose the system determines that the actor Deepak Chopra is an Information Authority or expert on emotional quotients based on him being endorsed for this topic by other members or based on a citation analysis of papers by other experts that cite his work and so on. Now if Deepak Chopra begins to post information about politics people may start to pay attention and interact with this content even though his expertise on politics is not strictly transferable from his expertise on emotional quotients. Nevertheless the system may determine that the actor Deepak Chopra is now an Information Authority type leader on politics based on the decisions evaluations and voting activity by others in his network.

While various embodiments above refer to an academic expert as an example of an Information Authority another example of an Information Authority is an influencer or a celebrity that may or may not be a true academic expert or subject matter expert. For example endorsements by celebrities from popular culture may result in great commercial success for the endorsed product even though the celebrity may not be an academic expert or a subject matter expert on any particular topic e.g. the product being endorsed . Nevertheless such a celebrity may be considered by their social network to be an expert on the product as evidenced by the decisions evaluations and voting activity of other actors in their social network.

According to various example embodiments a Relationship Authority type leader may be defined as an actor that possesses or provides access to the particular social capital of relationships or has a high influence within a network with respect to the social capital of relationships. Examples of Relationship Authorities include actors of high socio economic status in a network CXOs of a company or organization celebrities in a profession and so on.

According to various example embodiments a Resources Authority type leader may be defined as an actor that possesses or provides access to the particular social capital of resources e.g. jobs money or visibility or has a high influence within a network with respect to the social capital of resources e.g. jobs money or visibility . Examples of resources authorities include actors such as hiring manager who possesses or provides access to jobs an investor or a venture capitalist who possesses or provides access to money a journalist who covers the story of a person who provides access to media visibility and so on.

According to various example embodiments a Propagator type leader may be defined as an actor that sources or spreads i.e. amplifies the reach of a particular type of social capital e.g. information relationships or resources within an online social network. For example an Information Propagator may be defined as an actor that sources or spreads i.e. amplifies the reach of the particular social capital of information within an online social network. As another example a Relationship Propagator may be defined as an actor that sources or spreads i.e. amplifies the reach of the particular social capital of relationships within an online social network. As another example a Resources Propagator may be defined as an actor that sources or spreads i.e. amplifies the reach of the particular social capital of resources within an online social network.

According to various example embodiments an Information Propagator may be defined as an actor that sources or spreads i.e. amplifies the reach of the particular social capital of information within an online social network.

For example in some embodiments an Information Propagator also referred to herein as the broadcaster is an actor that spreads high quality information to a large group of members within a local or global network. Accordingly Information Propagators may be actors who share and or curate information and act as social filters and they may be viewed as trend setters in terms of sharing information. An example of an Information Propagator is a person with 10 million followers on Twitter or 2000 connections on LinkedIn who is very adept at identifying content that may be interesting to others and who shares this content to a large number of followers. Thus any information that an Information Propagator posts is rapidly spread to a large number of other people.

In some embodiments an Information Propagator may not himself be the creator of some content but the system may still classify him as an Information Propagator due to the fact that he shares and spreads that content. Information Propagators may also be referred to herein as mediums because they can be analogized to a medium that distributes or carries information. Similarly Information Propagators may also be referred to herein as content curators or social curators since they curate the spread of information in a social network.

In some embodiments an Information Propagator may be considered to be similar in some ways to a journalist. For example a journalist traditionally decides what information is disseminated to other users. Of course an Information Propagator type leader is not limited to a traditional journalist. In fact due to the recent democratization of content on the Internet the public rely less on traditional journalists. Instead today any member of the public may publish information to a social network and if the member gathers sufficient followers then he may effectively become a content curator or Information Propagator type leader as described herein. Accordingly an Information Propagator may be viewed as a democratized journalist.

According to various example embodiments an Information Propagator may be identified based on reputation. For example the system may detect interactions between other actors and an Information Propagator where the interactions may correspond to the other actors following the Information Propagator connecting to the Information Propagator consuming or interacting with e.g. viewing sharing liking following suggesting commenting etc. content that is posted or shared by the Information Propagator. In some embodiments content shared by the Information Propagator may be related to a very narrow topic e.g. micro finance in South India or to a general topic e.g. business or may be a specific type or kind of content such as entertaining or humorous content educational content insightful content and so on.

In some embodiments an Information Propagator may be identified by connectedness of network topology. For example the Information Propagator may be identified based on the extent and reach of their network i.e. high network reach such as a group moderator . For example if an actor posts some content and a large number of her followers network connections fellow group members etc. disseminate it then that actor has a much broader reach than other actors and the system may determine that that actor is an Information Propagator type leader.

According to various example embodiments a Relationship Propagator may be defined as an actor that sources or spreads i.e. amplifies the reach of the particular social capital of relationships within an online social network. An example of Relationship Propagators include recruiters that source talents for companies.

According to various example embodiments a Resources Propagator may be defined as an actor that sources or spreads i.e. amplifies the reach of the particular social capital of resources e.g. jobs money visibility within an online social network. Examples of resources propagators include the entity LinkedIn that spreads job opportunities to the community via a jobs platform a venture capitalist that spreads money to entrepreneurs a media channel that spreads the media coverage or visibility of a person to the community.

According to various example embodiments a Trigger type leader may be defined as an actor that stimulates or seeds various activities of other members of an online social network with respect to a particular type of social capital e.g. information relationships or resources . For example an Information Trigger may be defined as an actor that stimulates or seeds various activities e.g. conversations among members of an online social network with respect to the particular social capital of information. As another example a Relationship Trigger may be defined as an actor that stimulates or seeds various activities e.g. the formation of new relationships or connections between members among members of an online social network with respect to the particular social capital of relationships. As another example a Resources Trigger may be defined as an actor that stimulates or seeds various activities e.g. job fairs investment rounds community discussions and dialogue among members of an online social network with respect to the particular social capital of resources e.g. jobs money visibility . According to various example embodiments described in more detail below Trigger type leader may be identified based on reputation.

According to various example embodiments an Information Trigger may be defined as an actor that stimulates or seeds various activities e.g. conversations among members of an online social network with respect to the particular social capital of information.

For example in some embodiments an Information Trigger also referred to herein as a provocateur is an actor that stimulates discussions and conversations such as by asking provocative questions or making unconventional statements. The role of the Information Trigger is thus to seed conversations and to precipitate and stimulate discussion within an online social network. In other words Information Triggers may have the ability to generate conversations that many other actors like to engage with and converse on which generates a lot of interest and encourages further discussion. Thus Information Triggers may contribute to the diffusion of information in a social network by asking provocative questions posting provocative content and so on.

According to various example embodiments and Information Trigger type leader may be identified based on reputation. For example when the Information Trigger posts an article message comment or status update related to Big Data the interactions of other members with this posted content may be represented by annotated flows in the sociograph. A reputation system may evaluate these interactions between members of the social network in order to identify Information Triggers. For example the system may detect an Information Trigger by determining that many other members are interacting with e.g. viewing commenting on sharing etc. the Information Trigger s posts. For example the system may detect that a potential Information Trigger s post has generated a lot of comments within a short period of time after being posted.

As described above they system may generate sub sociograph for the purposes of identifying a particular type of leader. Accordingly in order to identify an Information Trigger type leader the system may generate a sub sociograph where certain types of interactions may be heavily weighted contextually such as interactions e.g. comments submitted by other members in connection with content posted or shared by the Information Trigger. On the other hand the title skills and positions of the Information Trigger or the role type relationships that the Information Trigger may have with other members may be less relevant in this context and thus may be omitted from the corresponding sub sociograph in some example embodiments.

As another example a Relationship Trigger may be defined as an actor that stimulates or seeds various activities e.g. the formation of new relationships or connections between members among members of an online social network with respect to the particular social capital of relationships. Examples of relationship triggers include a networker or hub that brings other actors together.

As another example a Resources Trigger may be defined as an actor that stimulates or seeds various activities e.g. job fairs investment rounds community discussions and dialogue among members of an online social network with respect to the particular social capital of resources e.g. jobs money visibility . Examples of resources triggers include a University that stimulates job activities with job fair events job a government that stimulates investments in green tech industry investment a marketer that stimulates community discussion and visibility of a new product and so on.

According to various example embodiments a Broker type leader may be defined as an actor that serves as a bridge connecting two or more sub networks of actors with respect to a particular type of social capital e.g. information relationships or resources . For example an Information Broker may be defined as an actor that serves as a bridge connecting two or more sub networks of actors with respect to the particular social capital of information. As another example a Relationship Broker may be defined as an actor that serves as a bridge connecting two or more sub networks of actors with respect to the particular social capital of relationships. As another example a Resources Broker may be defined as an actor that serves as a bridge connecting two or more sub networks of actors with respect to the particular social capital of resources.

According to various example embodiments an Information Broker also referred to herein as an Information Connector may be defined as an actor that serves as a bridge connecting two or more sub networks of actors with respect to the particular social capital of information.

For example in some embodiments an Information Broker is an actor that serves as an information bridge or information connector between two networks or sub networks of actors which would otherwise may be disjoint e.g. networks that otherwise would have little or no information flow between them . Thus the role of an Information Broker is to broaden the information boundary of other members. The social capital for Information Broker is information and the potential access to information that such Information Brokers may provide to others.

For the purposes of comparison while a Propagator spreads information widely to different consumers which may or may not be in the same network as the Propagator an Information Broker connects two or more distinct networks. In some embodiments the type of leadership associated with an Information Broker is local rather than global because it may be highly dependent on the local network topology proximate to the corresponding Information Broker.

In some examples Information Brokers may be important because many people join social networks such as LinkedIn because they have a job or functional role or are interested in specific topical space. Such members typically join densely connected groups or cliques on the social network that are somehow associated with their jobs companies roles or topical spaces of interest e.g. most of their connections are from companies that the user has worked with or schools that the user attended or connections with groups associated with the user s topics of interest etc. . However after such members join such sub networks the diffusion of information to these members is often limited in such a way that there is a great deal of information that they do not receive and indeed that they do not even know exists. In effect the members tend to exist in their own little bubble of their sub network and become enveloped in an information mentality associated with their sub network. For example by looking at the diffusion of information in the sociograph it may be determined that a particular member tends to receive information from other users only if they belong to the same network or if the particular member follows the other users or if the particular member and the other users are in the same group and so on. Accordingly such members will only know about and have access to information relationships and resources that available in their immediate circle but not beyond that. As a result such members may never receive information from outside their dense sub network or group. In some cases such members may be aware of information that they do not have access to but often they may not even be aware of the information they do not know.

Accordingly the identification of Information Brokers may be incredibly important for understanding and optimizing the diffusion of information in a social network as they act as the bridge between different groups of people. In effect Information Brokers permit other users to broaden their perspective and expand their world and without them the flow and diffusion of information between distinct sub networks may be reduced or severely curtailed.

According to various example embodiments Information connectors may be identified by the system based on connectedness of network topology. For example the system may identify an Information Broker as a node in the sociograph with connections to two or more densely connected groups of people where if the node corresponding to the Information Broker is removed these two densely connected groups of people will no longer have any connections to each other e.g. the members of one group will no longer have a chance to interact with the members of the other group .

For example illustrates an example of a densely connected network N1 a densely connected network N2 and the member X that acts as an information connector between these densely connected networks. If the member X is removed from the sociograph the actors in network N1 will not have any direct connections to the actors in network N2 and vice versa. Accordingly the Information Broker actor X becomes a bridge of these two groups. As another example illustrates an example of a densely connected network Consumer Big Data a densely connected network Enterprise Big Data and the member Sarah Young that acts as an information broker between these densely connected networks. If the member Sarah Young is removed from the sociograph the actors in the Consumer Big Data network will not have any direct connections to the actors in the Enterprise Big Data network and vice versa. Accordingly the Information Broker actor Sarah Young becomes a bridge of these two groups.

Thus Information Brokers play a centrality role in terms of bridging the gaps between densely connected networks and of improving the efficacy and ability of users to see more of the world than they otherwise would. In some examples Information Brokers may exist on the adjacency or edges of densely connected sub networks or groups groups or cliques and may have weak ties to the members in one or more of these densely connected sub networks or groups. According to various example embodiments the system may generate a contextual sociograph for an Information Broker that focuses on information flow e.g. the interaction of members with content posted by other members .

According to various example embodiments a Relationship Broker may be defined as an actor that serves as a bridge connecting two or more sub networks with respect to the particular social capital of relationships.

For example in some embodiments a Relationship Broker may be similar to an Information Broker where a Relationship Broker provides their network connections with opportunities for forming relationship with members in other sub networks opportunities that the Relationship Broker s connections might not have if not for their connection with the Relationship Broker. For example with reference to the relationship broker Sarah Young may provide the only connection to the company Oracle to the users in the Consumer Big Data network who otherwise would not have a connection to the company Oracle .

For the purposes of comparison whereas the contextual sociograph for an Information Broker focuses on information flow the contextual sociograph for a Relationship Broker focuses on personal relationships. Similarly whereas the social capital for an Information Broker is information the social capital for a Relationship Broker is relationships and the potential access to relationships.

According to various example embodiments a Resources Broker may be defined as an actor that serves as a bridge connecting two or more sub networks with respect to the particular social capital of resources.

For example in some embodiments a Resources Broker may be similar to an Information Broker where a Resources Broker provides their network connections with opportunities for accessing resources from members in other sub networks opportunities that the Resources Broker s connections might not have if not for their connection with the Resources Broker. Examples of Resource Brokers are VCs and recruiters.

For the purposes of comparison whereas the contextual sociograph for an Information Broker focuses on information flow the contextual sociograph for a Resources Broker focuses on access to opportunities e.g. companies groups institute affiliations socio economic status . Similarly whereas the social capital for an Information Broker is information the social capital for resource connectors is the potential access to resources such as money funding job opportunities etc.

According to various example embodiments a reputation mechanism is configured to determine if a particular actor is a reputation leader on a particular subject by evaluating the decisions of actors in a social network with respect to various concepts or ideas.

As illustrated in the example of an example of a concept is Charlie is a leader in Big Data . Accordingly the system may analyze the interactions in the social network in order to determine if other actors have submitted decisions or evaluations that substantiate this concept of Charlie is a leader in Big Data . An example of such a decision is if the actor Jane Doe likes Charlie Jones s shared article on Big Data or if the actor J C Johnson endorses Charlie Jones s skills on Big Data on Charlie Jones s member profile page or if the actor J C Johnson co authors a paper on Big Data with Charlie Jones or if the actor University of Anyplace certifies Charlie Jones for a degree in Big Data and so on.

For example with reference to consider the actor J C Johnson s decision on the concept of whether Charlie Jones is a leader by reputation on the subject of Big Data. J C Johnson has expressed this decision by endorsing Charlie Jones for the skill of Big Data and by co authoring a paper with Charlie Jones. The strength of this evaluation may depend on 1 J C Johnson s knowledge leadership or reputation on the subject of Big Data 2 J C Johnson s relationship with Charlie Jones and or 3 the nature or decision type of J C Johnson s endorsement. With respect to 1 and 2 the system may determine that for example J C Johnson is a reputation leader on Big Data and that he has a strong relationship with Charlie Jones e.g. a formal relationship role of mentor protege and an informal relationship role of co authors on a paper . Accordingly both of these factors will strengthen the decision of J C Johnson. Moreover with respect to 3 the system may determine that the decision type of co authoring a paper on Big Data carries greater weight than the decision type of endorsing Charlie Jones for the skill of Big Data on Charlie Jones s member profile page. Accordingly J C Johnson s decision as expressed by co authoring a paper with Charlie Jones may carry greater weight than J C Johnson s decision as expressed by endorsing Charlie Jones for the skill of Big Data on Charlie Jones s member profile page.

As another example consider the actor University of Anyplace s decision on the concept of whether Charlie Jones is a leader by reputation on the subject of Big Data as expressed by the University certifying that Charlie Jones has a technical degree in machine learning. The system may determine a strong relationship between Charlie Jones and the University of Anyplace e.g. because Charlie Jones graduated with a PhD in computer science from this university . Moreover the system may determine that the certification may carry different weights depending on the reputation of the University of Anyplace itself. For example if the University of Anyplace is highly reputable in that space then any decisions from that actor in that space carry more weight. The decision type action of the certification on the part of the University also carries a weight itself in comparison to other acts that the university could take. For example certifying an advanced degree may carry greater weight than certifying a less advanced degree.

Now consider the actor Jane Doe s decision on the concept of whether Charlie Jones is a leader by reputation on the subject of Big Data. As described in more detail below Jane Doe s decision may be influenced by a personal decision made by Jane Doe e.g. Jane Doe s own evaluation of Charlie Jones based on Jane Doe s relationship with Charlie Jones and or Jane Doe s knowledge of the subject of Big Data . Moreover Jane Doe s decision may be influenced by a social decision made by Jane Doe i.e. Jane Doe s evaluation of other people s evaluations. For example J C Johnson s decision on Charlie Jones being a leader on Big Data the relationship between J C Johnson and Jane Doe J C Johnson s leadership on Big Data and J C Johnson s relationship strength with Charlie Jones are all social factors contributing to Jane Doe s decision on whether Charlie Jones is a leader by reputation on the subject of Big Data.

According to various example embodiments described in more detail below the system is configured to calculate a decision score associated with each decision by an actor Y on a concept. Each decision by actor Y may be a combination of a personal decision and a social decision in a recursive manner. Accordingly the decision score for a particular decision by actor Y is based on a several factors.

For individual personal decisions by actor Y with respect to whether user X is a reputation leader on subject S the decision score may be generated based on 

a Y s knowledge reputation and or leadership on the subject S. For example if the user Y is a Big Data expert user Y can evaluate better whether user X is a Big Data expert based on user Y s knowledge of the field of Big Data. Accordingly user Y s actions e.g. endorsing an article on Big Data posted by a user X may carry more weight if user Y has a high reputation e.g. is a reputation leader with respect to the subject of Big Data. Similarly if Y corresponds to a university entity then Y s actions e.g. certifying or endorsing user X for a PhD degree in computer science may carry more weight if entity Y has a high reputation itself e.g. is a reputation leader with respect to the subject of Big Data.

b Y s relationship with the actor X For example if the actor Y knows the actor X well this may affect actor Y s decision of whether actor X is a reputation leader on subject S. Accordingly actor Y s actions e.g. endorsing an article on Big Data posted by actor X may carry more weight if actor Y has a stronger relationship with actor X e.g. actor Y has been a direct supervisor of actor X for over 10 years . This carries more weight than if some John Doe endorses actor X. As another example if actor Y corresponds to a university entity then entity Y s actions e.g. certifying or endorsing user X for a PhD degree in computer science may carry more weight if entity Y has a strong relationship with actor X e.g. if entity Y is the alma mater of actor X .

c Decision type T of the decision by Y Actor Y has many choices of how to express their decision or evaluation on a concept where each decision type carries different weights. As one example actor Y may visit the homepage of actor X and endorse them for a skill which may carry a relatively low weight in some example embodiments. As another example actor Y may comment positively on a post by actor X which may carry a greater weight in some example embodiments. As another example actor Y may write a word recommendation for actor X and post it on actor X s home page or actor Y can write a blog post stating that actor X is an expert on the subject S of Big Data which may carry much greater weight in some example embodiments. If actor Y corresponds to a university entity then the University may certify user X and tell the whole world that actor X has a PhD in computer science which may carry greater weight than if the University simply likes a post by actor X.

d Decision weight This refers to the degree of decision that can be captured as binary or numeric scores. For example Y may endorse X for a skill. The decision weight is 1 binary . Y may comment on X s posts very frequently captured as 0.9 over the range of 0 to 1.

For social decisions by actor Y with respect to whether user X is a reputation leader on subject S the decision score may be generated based on 

a Same as above for all members Z in the sociograph. In other words each Z also makes a decision on the concept and the system calculates the corresponding decision scores for each decision.

b The decision of actor Y may then depend recursively on the strength of the actor Y s relationship with each of Z and the decision scores for the respective decisions by each of Z which may capture Z s leadership on the S Z s relationship with X and so on . In other words if actor Y trusts the judgment of actor Z and if actor Z says actor X is a reputation leader on subject S then actor Y may be likely to trust and follow the decision of actor Z. Accordingly if actor Y has a very close relationship with actor Z and the actor Z has a high decision score with respect to a concept then the decision score of actor Y s own decision with respect to that concept may be increased. On the other hand if actor Y has a very weak relationship with actor Z and the actor Z has a low decision score with respect to a concept then the decision score of actor Y s own decision with respect to that concept might not be increased significantly.

According to various example embodiments the concept that actor X is a reputation leader e.g. an Authority or expert for a subject S may be represented as Concept X S . The decision score for the net decision that a single actor Y makes with respect to a concept e.g. Concept X S may be represented as Decision Concept X S Y .

This net decision may be generated based on personal decisions by the actor Y as well as social decisions by actor Y. In other words the net decision score may be generated based on a personal decision score and a social decision score. The personal decision score for the personal decision by actor Y may be represented by Decide Concept X S T Y which denotes Y s decision on a concept for all decision types T . The social decision score for the social decision by actor Y may be based on Decide Concept X S Z which denotes Z s net decision on the concept for all Z and the relationships between Y and Z. For example if the relationship is strong in the contextual sociograph particular to the reputation then Z s net decision carries more weight to Y.

Based on the net decision scores for all members of a group the system may generate a reputation leadership score associated with the actor X and the subject S. For example based on Decision Concept X S Y G net decision of all members Y in group G the system may generate a reputation leadership score associated with Concept X S . Based on this reputation leadership score the system may determine that actor X is a reputation leader on subject S e.g. if the reputation leadership score is greater than a predetermined threshold .

Reputation may be transitive. For example in some embodiments reputation is transitive in terms of network reach. X s reputation on S is at first limited to a sub network. As actors start to form decision on X s reputation and influence each other X s reputation spreads across the network. This is in part due to a there can be non zero impact of Z s decision on X s reputation to Y s decision even when Z and Y do not have relationships and b Y and Z s decisions are inter dependent and influence each other socially.

In another sense reputation is transitive in terms of subject. It is observed that when X becomes a leader on S among a network actors in the network gives higher reputation score of X on other subjects. For example Barak Obama is a reputable leader on politics. Because of that members of the society trust Obama s opinion on parenting.

3.2. Decide Concept X S T Y Y personally exclude social factors decision numeric on the concept of X being a reputable leader on subject S based on decision type T. Decision is based on Y s relationship with X Y s leadership on S and Decision type T.

3.2.1.1. Y view click like comment on X s post. Applications include Authority Leader Propagator Leader Information Broker Trigger.

3.2.1.4. Y e.g. a university certifies X earns degree on subject S or Y e.g. a company certifies X as an employee.

3.3. Decide Concept X S Y Y s net decision on the concept of X being a reputable leader on subject S. It is based on 

This recursively captures Z s relationship with X the leadership of Z on S Decision type T of each decision by Z and so on.

3.3.3. Relationships between Y and Z. Example if the relationship is strong in the contextual sociograph particular to the reputation Z s net decision carries more weight to Y.

In the case there is no relationships between Y and Z there is still non zero impact of the collective decision of all other members on Y intuitively referring to global reputation as captured in Decide Concept X S G all . Recursive definition c.f. PageRank 

3.4. Decide Concept X S G Reputation leadership score of X being reputable on subject S for a given group G.

3.4.1. G It can be limited to a local sub network. It can also be global including all members in the contextual sociograph denoted as Decide Concept X S .

As described in various embodiments above certain types of leaders such as Information Brokers Relationship Brokers and Resources Brokers may be identified based on connectedness by network topology.

For example for an Information Authority the corresponding Contextual sociograph captures all decision type T that are relevant to Decide Concept X S T Y . See examples of T above.

For an Information Propagator Information Trigger and Information Broker the corresponding contextual sociograph captures relationships that represent information flows between actors. Examples include connections NUS feed on one s network activities shared group affiliations following relationships e.g. following an influencer member group channel company institute advertiser .

For a Relationship Authority Relationship Propagator Relationship Trigger Relationship Broker Resources Authority Resources Propagator Resources Trigger and Resources Broker the corresponding contextual sociograph captures relationships and the nature of relationships between actors. Examples include connections shared affiliations shared demographics or geographic information named unnamed roles employer employee alumni alumni colleague colleague friend friend and so on.

According to various example embodiments contextual weights for edges in a contextual sociograph that represent relationships between actors may be determined in accordance with a specific leadership type of interest. In some embodiments the contextual weights may be assigned and are annotated by the system onto the sociograph.

For example for a Propagator An edge can represent a following relationship. The weight of the edge can be binary follow or not or numeric capturing the intensity frequency recency of flows e.g. view click comment like reshare of articles by the leader of an actor on the information from the leader.

For a Trigger An edge can represent information relationship between Trigger and the actor. The weight can be based on the flows between them such as flow types e.g. comment like on the leader s shares or discussion comments intensity frequency recency of flow events.

For an Information Broker An edge can represent information relationship between the leader and actor on a given topic. The weight of the edge can be numeric score capturing amount and quality e.g. exclusivity uniqueness authoritativeness comprehensiveness oddity timeliness popularity etc. of information passed by the leader to the actor.

For a Relationship Broker weights may reflect the depth of personal relationship as indicated by for examples number of years collaboration closeness of roles with respect to them organization chart nature of relationships intensity frequency and recency of interactions between actors degree of privacy 1 1 1 n 1 broadcast of interactions between actors and so on.

For a Resources Broker weights may reflect potential access to resources as indicated by socio economic advantages. Examples are seniority of roles nature of roles VCs can access resources more readily affiliations employed by category leaders enables access to employment opportunities .

4.3. Connectedness X Y G2 Denotes the connectedness score of X to Y w.r.t. network G2 for a given leader type. It captures the degree of disconnectedness between Y and G2 if X were to be removed from the contextual sociograph.

For example as illustrated in Connectedness Sarah Young Jane Doe Enterprise Big Data may capture a high degree of disconnectedness between Jane Doe and the group Enterprise Big Data if Sarah Young were to be removed from the contextual sociograph in .

Disconnectedness can be intuited as for example reduced information flow if the leader type concerned is Information Broker.

4.4. Connectedness X Y ALL Denotes the connectedness of X to Y when we generalize G2 to the global population. For example it captures reduced information exposure of Y to the global population if X is removed from the sociograph.

4.5. Connectedness X G1 G2 Denotes the connectedness score of X between sub network G1 and sub network G2 for a given leader type. It is based on Connectedness X Y. G2 for all Y in G1. Generalize from an actor Y to a network G1 .

After leaders are identified the system may utilize this information for the purposes of information diffusion optimization e.g. whom to target within a community in order to maximize the adoption of an idea . For example in some embodiments by leveraging annotations about the leaders and other components of the sociograph the system may understand the leadership types of individuals information flow paths and the topologies of a social network. In this way the system may ultimately determine the best way to seed discussions and to effectively diffuse the information most relevant and useful to various users.

For example in introducing a new idea in the form of an article the system first identifies sub networks relevant to the idea such as sub networks based on sociographs of personal relationships to the author or sharer and or sub networks based on the sociographs of shared interests on the topic. The awareness of the idea may be first spread through Propagator. Next the system targets Authority on the idea of a sub network by surfacing the article to them and surfacing their activities to actors of the sub network. As activities start to generate around the article the system targets a Trigger who may stimulate conversations around the article and a Propagator who further spreads the idea . At some point the idea infects sufficient actors within the sub network that the sub network adopts the idea. The system also aims to spread the idea to adjacent sub network w.r.t. a given contextual sociograph by surfacing activities of a Broker on the subject to another actor in an adjacent sub network. The adoption cycle repeats in the new sub network. In particular if the subject is auxiliary to the core interests of the adjacent sub network the Broker delivers the value of exposing them to information they would otherwise not have known. The idea may then take on a viral path of adoption across the general network.

Consider the example of making connections on an online social network service such as People You May Know PYMK recommendations on the LinkedIn . For a new user the system first identifies candidates the user may know. Among them the system gives priority to Authority leaders such as candidates with high socio economic status Trigger leaders such as candidates who may message or interact with the user Propagator leaders such as candidates who are active networker with large network through them the user may have access to a large 2nd degree circle and so on. As the user starts to form sufficient connections around her core relationship types e.g. as she settles into some sub networks with a sense of belonging the system introduces a Broker leader as window of opportunity to new types of relationships the user would otherwise not be connected with such as weak ties who are bridge between sub networks .

Examples of information diffusion techniques that may be executed by the system are illustrated with reference to . Suppose there is a post about Big Data to enterprise 2.0 from the actor Art Doe shared by a Propagator to a popular group and suppose many people started commenting on it. The system may determine that Art Doe is a leader in the Big Data space e.g. perhaps because many people are commenting on the article he posted . Accordingly the system may surface that post e.g. by making it appear higher to other users in the densely connected group Enterprise Big Data . The actor Sarah Young now has the opportunity to view it because she belongs to the same group Enterprise Big Data and thus she has the opportunity herself to surface that content and share it to her professional network outside of the group. Now Sarah Young is an Information Broker to Jane Doe so the system may surface Sarah Young s interaction with the content to Jane Doe. As a result Jane Doe now has access to information that she previously may not have even known existed. Jane Doe may then start to populate and share this information herself in the Consumer Big Data group. Moreover the system may have determined prior that Charlie Jones is a reputation leader in the space of Consumer Big Data. So when Charlie Jones comments on this post his comment will be surfaced higher to other members in the Consumer Big Data group. In this way information may be defused across sub networks via both information connectors and reputation leaders.

5.1. Concepts The system may optimize information cascade captured as concepts. Examples of a concept include news article influencer member post group discussion comment to any of content above company status.

5.2. Strategies According to various example embodiments a system may utilize various strategies to maximize information cascade based on the following 

5.2.1. Surface to sub network s of relevance to the concept. For example an article on Big Data is more relevant to actors sub networks with interest in Big Data w.r.t. the contextual sociograph on information flow. Another example is sub networks around the author or actors interacting with the article w.r.t. contextual sociographs of personal relationships. Propagator can start the spread.

5.2.2. Surface information to and surface the interactions of reputation leaders on the concept to the sub network particularly at early stage of infection to the sub network. Example among comments made to the article in Big Data Group surface comments by Authority or Trigger leaders.

5.2.3. Across sub networks surface interactions by Broker leaders. For example if Y is an Information Broker to X surface Y s interactions to X.

According to various example embodiments when an online social network service recommend leaders such as recommending that a user should follow a leader or connect to a leader or when the online social network service surfaces activities of leaders such as the comments of the leader the system annotate relevant attributes about the leaders so that users understand the underlying reasons.

For example when a system surfaces a leader s X s interactions on some concept to a user Y e.g. when X posts likes shares etc. an article the system may annotate the interaction with comments that indicate to Y the qualities and reasons of X s leadership e.g. Did you know that X is widely reputed to be an expert on Big Data by academics from Ivy League schools .

As another example when a system recommends X to Y as a person to follow connect to the system may annotate the recommendation with comments that indicate to Y the qualities and reasons of X s leadership.

According to various example embodiments when a system highlights X on a page the system may annotate X with comments that indicate to Y the qualities and reasons of X s leadership. For example a Channel leaderboard may include shortlist of curated VIPs and Authority Trigger Propagator leaders may be identified based on their leadership scores. As another example group can have a section that highlights leaders of the group.

The aforementioned example annotations may include various types of information. For example for an Authority on a subject the system may annotate the Authority s title or affiliations with recognized companies institutions and groups on that subject. As another example for a Trigger the system may annotate whether the Trigger has a group moderator role or group affiliation. As another example for an Information Broker the system may annotate the Information Broker s affiliation with groups relevant to a concept. As another example for a Relationship Broker the system may annotate a number of connections of the Relationship Broker homophily between the Relationship Broker and actor Y etc. As another example for a Resources Broker the system may annotate the nature and seniority of a role of the Resources Broker affiliations of the Resources Broker etc. Each of the aforementioned annotations may be stored in a database in association with any of the sociographs described herein.

6.2.1. A given application has corresponding contextual sociograph. For example for a content ecosystem location a corresponding contextual sociograph is an information contextual sociograph. As another example for a People You May Know application the corresponding contextual sociograph is a relationship contextual sociograph. The system may recommend candidates to a user such as following recommendations content ecosystem or connection people you may know recommendations by targeting leaders. For example the system gives priority to an Authority then a Propagator and a Trigger as the user starts to settle into a sub network the system gives priority to a Broker to expose the user to an adjacent new world.

6.2.2. According to various example embodiments leadership types and scores may be factors utilized by a system to influence the rank order of information in content feeds group conversations a set of comments and so on. For example if the user is a reputation leader on a particular topic as evidenced by a higher reputation leadership score then an article that they posted may be ranked higher and or displayed more prominently in a content feed as opposed to an article posted by another actor that is not a reputation leader or has a lower reputation leadership score . As another example if the user is a reputation leader on a particular topic as evidenced by a higher reputation leadership score a comment that they posted may be ranked higher and or displayed more prominently in a set of comments as opposed to a comment posted by another actor that is not a reputation leader or has a lower reputation leadership score . Examples of areas where such ranking may occur include LI Today content feeds on the LinkedIn Homepage Channel Pages Content Ecosystem Digest network updates in the network update stream NUS stream NUS Digest group discussions in Groups and so on.

6.2.3. According to various example embodiments the contributions of different leader types may be more or less relevant in the context of different types of feeds or content spaces. For example the system may rank the contributions of different types of leaders differently depending on where these contributions may be displayed. For example the contributions of Authority Information Broker and Propagator leaders may be more valuable to a content feed and thus the system may display content published by these leaders more prominently in a content feed than content published by some other types of leaders e.g. Triggers Relationship Brokers and resource brokers or non leaders. As another example the contribution of Triggers may be more valuable in Group discussions conversations and comments to an article and thus the system may display content published by a Trigger more prominently in a group discussion conversation and comments to articles etc.

Turning now to a social relevance analysis system includes a sociograph module a leadership module and a database . The modules of the social relevance analysis system may be implemented on or executed by a single device such as a social relevance analysis device or on separate devices interconnected via a network. The aforementioned social relevance analysis device may be for example a client machine or application server. Each of the modules of the social relevance analysis system will be described in more detail below.

In operation in the leadership module identifies based on a network topology of the sociograph a particular node in the sociograph corresponding to an information connector node between at least two distinct groups of the nodes in the sociograph. The two district groups of nodes may include a first group of nodes and a second group of nodes e.g. see network N1 and network N2 in . For example in some embodiments the leadership module may analyze the connections between nodes to find a particular node that is directly connected to at least one node in the first group and at least one node in the second group e.g. user X in . As another example in some embodiments the leadership module may analyze the connections between nodes to determine that a predetermined portion of nodes in the first group e.g. more than half more than three quarters all etc. have at least a threshold number of connections e.g. 1 2 3 etc. to other nodes in the first group. As another example in some embodiments the leadership module may analyze the connections between nodes to determine that a predetermined portion of nodes in the first group e.g. more than half more than three quarters all etc. have no direct connection to any node in the second group assuming the information connector node itself is not included in the second group. As another example in some embodiments the leadership module may analyze the connections between nodes to determine that removal of the particular node from the sociograph results in no direct connection between the first and second group of nodes e.g. user X in .

In operation in the leadership module classifies a particular actor associated with the particular node as an information connector of the online social network service based on the network topology of the sociograph. In some embodiments the operation may comprise annotating a node in the sociograph corresponding to the particular actor with information indicating that the particular actor is classified as the information connector. It is contemplated that the operations of method may incorporate any of the other features disclosed herein. Various operations in the method may be omitted or rearranged as necessary.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied 1 on a non transitory machine readable medium or 2 in a transmission signal or hardware implemented modules. A hardware implemented module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware implemented module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware implemented module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware implemented module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware implemented module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware implemented module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware implemented module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily or transitorily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware implemented modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware implemented modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware implemented modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware implemented modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware implemented module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware implemented module at a different instance of time.

Hardware implemented modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware implemented modules. Accordingly the described hardware implemented modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware implemented modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware implemented modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware implemented modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware implemented modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware implemented modules have access. For example one hardware implemented module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware implemented module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware implemented modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard or a touch sensitive display screen a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi LTE and WiMAX networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

