---

title: Media system with playing component
abstract: This document describes a device for receiving and displaying graphical representations of digital music tracks and their components (in the form of digital interactive phrases, or “DIPs”). The device allows a user to play the music tracks using a new format, blend, mix or mash different music tracks together, via a digital interactive phrase process, and produce and listen to the blended, mixed or mashed digital music.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09286869&OS=09286869&RS=09286869
owner: Magnaforte, LLC
number: 09286869
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140919
---
This application is a continuation and claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 606 153 filed Oct. 26 2009 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 841 536 entitled Media System With Playing Component which claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 108 474 filed Oct. 24 2008 entitled Media System With Playing Component . These references are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

The media in particular the music industry has been confronted by a series of economic challenges. Technological advances and a faltering business model have led to a subservience to computer based media markets and a predominance of peer to peer music file sharing. Consequently the core retail business of the music industry for example has been eroded. Despite various attempts by the music industry to correct compensate for or redirect music sales the music industry has not been able to regain control of its retail market. Anti piracy measures have failed and have led to further polarization of the industry and its market.

With regard to the music industry the disparity between the average retail price of a conventional product the music compact disc CD and the number of desirable tracks offered usually only one to five tracks per CD is having deleterious effects on the music industry business model. Therefore a new business model has sprung up which provides an opportunity to effectively obtain by digital download sometimes free or even direct purchase of a select and limited number of tracks.

New digital media player devices have helped refocus the music industry to the new business model. Still the overwhelming urge by consumers is to obtain their music for free or at the lowest price possible. Further these new media players and the networks by which music is distributed and downloaded only offer limited discrete tracks which are sometimes accompanied by burdensome legal restrictions. The tracks can only be stored in their original state unless modified by difficult to use and time consuming digital editing tools.

This document describes a digital electronic system for recording organizing transmitting manipulating and reviewing digital files such as digital music files in which the source data is not manipulated but rather the sequencing of the source data is processed. In particular this document presents a stand alone electronic device for receiving and displaying graphical representations of digital music tracks and their components in the form of digital interactive phrases or DIPs and which allows a user to play the music tracks using a new format and to be able to blend mix or mash different music tracks together via a digital interactive phrase process. The device further allows the user to produce and listen to digital music of superior sequencing and sound fidelity.

In one aspect a media device is disclosed. The media device includes a player device adapted to play mix and store a plurality of discrete digital interactive phrases and to display a representation thereof. The media device further includes a plurality of media components each media component storing a set of the plurality of discrete digital interactive phrases and having a physical and data exchange connection with the player device to transfer the digital interactive phrases to the player device for the playing mixing and storing of the digital interactive phrases.

In another aspect a method of processing and playing media files is presented. The method includes storing media source material as a plurality of digital interactive phrases on two or more media components having a housing that contains a memory and an electronic interface. The method further includes connecting at least two media components with a media device the media device having a graphical user interface that displays the media source material from each of the connected media components. The method further includes combining user selected digital interactive phrases from the at least two connected media components to form a new media file representing a mixed or mashed version of the user selected digital interactive phrases.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

This document describes a device for receiving and displaying graphical representations of digital music tracks and their components in the form of digital interactive phrases or DIPs . The device allows a user to play the music tracks using a new format blend mix or mash different music tracks together via a digital interactive phrase process and produce and listen to the newly sequenced mixed or mashed digital music.

A DIP is any segment or phrase of a song containing instrumental music or lyrics or a combination of music and lyrics. Combining a number of DIPS of any song or track can create a complete new version of that song or track. A DIP may be formatted in any of a variety of digital media formats. For example a DIP can be formatted as a WAV file. Additionally a DIP can be defined to include a musical phrase a group of phrases lyrics only instrumental only or a combination thereof. DIPs are preferably though not necessarily formatted as uncompressed data.

In implementations of the methods and systems disclosed herein each DIP is encoded with a code according to which it can be mixed or mashed with one or more other DIPS. Each mix and mash code is a designation for a specific mix mash of two specific song arrangements and can be generated during mixing or mashing to enable playback and communication of the unique mix or mash. Alternatively each code is generated specifically for each DIP in advance of any mixing or mashing. In specific implementations the code requires less than 1 kbits of data. Codes can be individually distributed at no cost and exchanged by email or other electronic networking means.

A mix is a combination of musical phrases consisting of instrumental data and associated lyrics data from different songs or different version of the same song to create a new song. Mixing keeps lyric phrases and associated instrumental phrases together but can contain more or fewer phrases than an original song. Mixed songs are defined by associated DIPS played in a specific order and are known as a vertical edit as shown in an example in .

A mash or mashup is a combination of some or all of a subset of the phrases of lyrics and or rhythm from one song with some or all of a subset of the phrases of lyrics and or rhythm from another song to create a new song. Mashes are assembled by combining DIPS constructed from a given phrase and containing lyrics and or instrumental data and played in a specific order. A simple mashup in which all encoded a DIPS from one song are combined in sequence with all encoded b DIPS from a second song is also known as a horizontal edit as shown in .

In their final mixed or mashed form DIPS can include normalization of their sound level to reduce or even eliminate discontinuity between phrases. Songs formatted as DIPS whether mixed mashed or original can be stored and distributed on a media element such as a poly described below or over a communications network.

In preferred implementations the device includes a player device and two or more media components each also known as a poly . The media components are loaded with digital music tracks formatted and segmented as a series of DIPs and are able to interface with the player device independent of a computer or computer network to enable playing of the series of DIPs to play a digital music track or to enable mixing of DIPs among the two or more media components to produce new digital music tracks for playing or for sharing.

In one specific preferred implementation the device includes two media components selected from a large number of available media components and each containing a maximum number of tracks. The media components are preferably sized and adapted for a unique form factor and have an electronic data communication interface that specifically connects to a corresponding interface of the player device. The two media components are adapted to be inserted or connected with the player device at the same time. Once inserted or connected to the player device each media component transfers a list of its content to the player device which in turn displays the list in a graphical user interface. The graphical user interface preferably includes a first region to display the list from a first media component and a second region to display the list from a second media component and so on. The graphical user interface further includes a third region for displaying a list of mixed DIPs from the first and second lists as will be explained in further detail below.

A user is able to either play any given track selected from each individual media component through the player device or alternatively sequence mix or mash two different tracks one from each media component or from two tracks of the same media component if desired. The user combines the tracks in one of several ways vertically mixing the lyrics or individual verses and musical phrases or by horizontally mashing which involves a process which separates the rhythm or beat from one track and combining them with the lyrics of another track. A DIP system is used for both the mixing and mashing process. The user is able to create an original track sequence a custom mix of tracks or other mixes as desired. DIPs are coded individually and the codes are stored in a memory of each media component and transferred to the player device upon connection or upon user command. Mix or mash codes can be retrieved once stored. Once retrieved a mix or mash can be played from the mix or mash codes provided the media components remain connected with the player device. The mix or mash codes can then be shared through email by using a memory stick and or providing a USB port on the device.

In preferred implementations the player device can only play tracks or files from the inserted or connected media components and the media components can only be connected to the player device via proprietary interface for retrieving and playing the content of the media components. In some implementations each media component conforms to a standard size and shape and made of a standard group of materials. For example a media component can be formed as a squared thin card similar in form to a credit card . In other examples the media component can have a three dimensional form or be rounded and can be easily stored in one s wallet purse or other carrying mechanism.

Each media component includes a maximum number of tracks which can be listed in the player device as a list of tracks. Each track has been pre annotated typically by the recording entity or personnel into musical segments known as the DIPs. Software in the player device deciphers and isolates the individual DIPs and reveals the segmented DIPs on its graphical user interface. The player device is further configured to play the tracks from each or either media component in a seamless manner. Both the length and number of DIPs will vary with each track. Each DIP can be encoded with a standard universal coding scheme that is recognized among a number of player devices and which is used to identify each segment individually. Mixes or mash ups can be exchanged by email or via other media storage and porting technologies such as through a Universal Serial Bus USB portable storage device.

The player device preferably includes two or more slots or other types of receptacles. The player device further includes one or more audio speakers arranged within the housing of the player component and a graphical user interface GUI . In preferred exemplary implementations the GUI includes a first region that displays a first list of media files or DIPs from a first media component a second region that displays a second list of media files or DIPs from a second media component and a third region that displays a third list of mixed or mashed media files or DIPs taken from and which are generated by a user or imported from an external source.

The GUI can be manipulated by a user to display commands or inputs. The GUI is preferably a color display and may include a touch sensitive mechanism for manipulating and controlling various graphical elements within the display regions. For example a user can drag and drop graphical or textual representations of files or DIPs from one region to another via tactile input and the player device will execute such input. Alternatively or concurrently the user can manipulate a set of physical controls such as a play button stop button forward reverse skip forward skip backward store delete etc. The player device may also include an on off control and a volume control . It should be understood that the controls can be physical buttons touch sensitive areas or other graphical elements in the GUI .

The player device plays one or more media components and preferably two media components at a time. The player device plays DIPs and rearranged DIPs while simultaneously highlighting the played DIPs on the GUI . The player device operates under control and command inputs from a user to mix DIPs from multiple media components to store mix codes to play mixes and to import and export mix codes. The player device can have both an active and dynamic mode as well as one or more passive modes. In an active mode a user actively creates mixes from two or more tracks. In a first passive mode mix codes are imported through email or directly mixed by a peer. In another passive mode mix codes are imported from a playlist on a radio station website or other network connection.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the size shape material look and feel of the player device can have many variations and that the player device depicted in is for illustrative purposes only. The player device and its functionality can also be implemented graphically by a computer on a graphical user interface GUI in a display device. In some implementations functions of the player device can be implemented in a distributed computing system which functions can be executed and coordinated over a communications network.

At content items are played mixed or mashed according to the user input and mixed or mashed content items can be displayed in another region of the GUI of the player component of the media device. The mixed or mashed content items form new content items that can be distributed electronically on a communications network at or be stored locally on the media device or on a media component at . The new content items as mixes or mashes can also be received or imported by the player component and or media device.

In some implementations a user plugs into an electrical outlet or battery operated and turns device on with a turn on off power button. The user can adjust the volume with the volume control. The user then inserts either one or two media components into the slots of the player device. In specific design implementations of the player device one slot is located in the top left hand side of the player device and the other slot is located in the top right hand side of the player device. There are four other controls a TRACK INDICATOR for a first media component b MIX button c MASH button and d TRACK INDICATOR for a second media component. Beneath each of these four controls there is a corresponding GUI regions. The GUI is located in the front center of the player device displaying three columns as regions which illuminate graphical or alphanumeric representations of the content of the media components i.e. tracks or DIPs codes or other content.

The poly includes a microchip that stores the media tracks or DIPS. The microchip can be removable or fixedly imbedded inside the poly and communicatively accessibly by an electronic interface. The poly can also include a number of holes for being attached to a keychain or for lockable storage in a carousel for instance. The features of the poly can all be contained or attached to a housing . The form of a poly is preferably thin and card like and the housing can be plastic nylon metal or other resilient or protective material. A poly can be formed in any size or shape but are preferably easily portable and are therefore preferably smaller than a typical compact disk CD encasement.

The media system also includes a user control interface that has a set of physical operation controls and a graphical user interface . As shown in the user control interface can be removable from the housing of the media system . As shown by the media component physical storage is also removable from the housing of the media system and can include slots for receiving single media components so that user can organize and store their media components in an structured manner.

The graphical user interface of the user control interface can display any number or types of graphical control screens. show exemplary graphical control screens for controlling the operation of the media system . shows a graphical control screen that displays a playlist of mixes that includes a code for each mix a person who made the mix a date and a first poly and a second poly that were mixed together to form the mix.

In some implementations a first region of the GUI displays a name of a first media component that is interfaced with the player device. A second region of the GUI displays a name of a second media component that is interfaced with the player device. Still other media components can be interfaced with the player device. The regions in the display can be arranged as a column of information. Alternatively the regions can display icons or other graphical elements to represent tracks DIPs or other components of the content. Arranged as a column a region can display various detail about each content element for example it can display a name artist title track number DIP code etc. At least one region can display codes or representations of the mixed or mashed DIPs.

Using a drag and drop mechanism with the GUI a user creates a new sequence of coded DIPs selected from at least one and preferably two regions in the GUI. The user can then initiate playback of any track number from either media component playing a track as originally recorded or playing the newly sequenced and encoded DIPs from the related region while simultaneously viewing the corresponding coded DIPs in the GUI.

To accommodate differences among the DIPs of tonal key and or tempo the present system can present a color coded shape coded or other graphical indication of a key and or tempo type such that two or more different DIPs can be mixed based on a similar key and or tempo. The key identifies the tonic triad the chord major or minor which represents the final point of rest for a piece or the focal point of a section. The key is established via functional harmony a sequence of chords leading to one or more cadences. A key may be major or minor. There are 12 major and 12 minor keys. The tempo or time signature also known as meter signature is a notational convention used in some musical notation to specify how many beats are in each measure and what note value constitutes one beat. Simple time signatures consist of two numbers one above the other. The lower number indicates the note value which represents one beat the beat unit . The upper number indicates how many such beats there are in a bar.

As described above with reference to a graphical indication of a key tempo type associated with each DIP can be displayed. Alternatively the system can automatically adjust in response to user input the key and or tempo of any selected DIP to accommodate mixing the DIP with any other selected DIP. In yet other implementations the key of a song can be changed to make it more compatible with mixing and mashing. Or the time meter signature of a song can also be changed to make it more compatible with mixing and mashing.

From at least one region in the GUI a coded reference file is created in a database and stored. The user preserves mixes and mash ups by enabling a save control such as a button or other type of input mechanism. The user can send new sequences of codes of new mixes and mash ups by email through using a USB port connected to a PC. The recipient of these new music codes can download and import into another player device and purchase the same media components and input a command to that player device to bring up the codes as they were originally sent and playback a mix as created by the sender.

By way of example and with reference to the the following outlines a general method of operation of a media device musicator and media components polys 

5 User initiates playback of track in its entirety while simultaneously viewing the corresponding DIP code s on GUI while pre annotated segments are being played 

7 Using a touch screen drag and drop method of operation the consumer drags and drops DIPS and associated codes into a MIX column 

10 If more than one DIP already has been dragged and dropped into MIX column the proceeding DIP above in vertical arrangement is played first followed by the newly proposed DIP beneath in vertical arrangement 

12 An alternate more expedient method is to drag and drop one of the two proposed music tracks into the MIX column and remove by drag and drop operation selective DIPS to be replaced by DIPS from the other proposed track 

13 Once the user has played the mix through its entirety and is satisfied with the sequence of DIPS in the MIX column mix codes a Store button is pressed allowing for the storage of the mix for an indefinite time interval until mix is chosen to be deleted using a Delete button 

14 After a mix is stored it can also be exported as an email via USB or other communication port connected to a computer having an email client program 

15 Mixed codes can also be imported automatically and selected mix codes stored for future playback provided respective musical tracks from respective polys are inserted in the musicator 

16 User can access a customized system for indexing mix codes for quick and easy identification retrieval 

17 The user can use a remote control device with GUI to allow for mixing mashing from a remote location i.e. across room 

In accordance with the devices systems and techniques described above users can play and listen to music with a superior audio sound reproduction and also mix music individually to customize tracks. The devices described herein are adapted to redirect music playing and processing from the computer industry where it can be easily downloaded and pirated and returns it back to the music industry using a retail oriented device and player device which requires users to purchase music played and used.

The implementations described in this document will help curtail the rampant piracy of music through peer to peer music file sharing over the Internet as well as the unauthorized reproduction of musical CD s by the process of burning them. These implementations will also curtail the ability of users to download one individual track thus bypassing altogether the purchase of numerous tracks contained in a given package yet still retain and encourage peer to peer sharing of music. The device engages the consumer and enables the consumer to be creative artistic interactive and original.

The player device and media components offer an enjoyable viable system for the family and because of their consumer friendly configuration and ease of operation allows users of all ages to play listen and mix or mash their own music. Through the use of standardized codes and a secure format a currency can be created through which musical creations can be exchanged and by which different musical genres can be cross pollinated.

In other implementations within a conference such as in down time before an official start of the conference or to introduce the conference a web server can insert messages such as advertisements as an audio stream into the voice network. Further advertisements can be provided to the website associated with the teleconferencing system as participants can both participate in the conference on their mobile devices or other telecommunication devices as well as access a website associated with the conference to get additional information beyond the real time voice transmissions.

Some or all of the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of them. Embodiments of the invention can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium e.g. a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage medium a memory device or a machine readable propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus.

The term data processing apparatus encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of them. A propagated signal is an artificially generated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus.

A computer program also referred to as a program software an application a software application a script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to a communication interface to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks.

Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio player a Global Positioning System GPS receiver to name just a few. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user embodiments of the invention can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Embodiments of the invention can also be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the invention or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

Certain features which for clarity are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments may also be provided in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features which for brevity are described in the context of a single embodiment may also be provided in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Particular embodiments of the invention have been described. Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims. For example the steps recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition embodiments of the invention are not limited to database architectures that are relational for example the invention can be implemented to provide indexing and archiving methods and systems for databases built on models other than the relational model e.g. navigational databases or object oriented databases and for databases having records with complex attribute structures e.g. object oriented programming objects or markup language documents. The processes described may be implemented by applications specifically performing archiving and retrieval functions or embedded within other applications.

Although a few embodiments have been described in detail above other modifications are possible. The logic flows depicted in do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. Other embodiments may be within the scope of the following claims.

