---

title: Matching network game players by giving the perception of being the first to request participation
abstract: A server device receives a request for participation in a network game through a communication line, integrates user information of each user terminal from which the server receives the participation request, generates matching information of each user participating in the same network game to be started at the same time, and notifies the generated matching information to each terminal device. The matching information is different for each terminal device of notification destination so as to be displayed as if the terminal device of the notification destination made the earliest participation request, regardless of order of the participation request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09017166&OS=09017166&RS=09017166
owner: DeNA, Co., Ltd.
number: 09017166
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140220
---
The present invention relates to a technology for processing a social game in which a plurality of users participates via a network.

Recently a social game in which a plurality of users participates via a network by using a Social Networking Service SNS has spread widely and a network game is provided which uses an information processing device such as a personal computer PC terminal or a mobile terminal to exchange information and communicate mutually through communication with a game server.

Among such network games a so called network battle game performs a battle between users or performs a battle with enemy team or between virtual enemies by organizing teams with users.

For example JP 2012 55435 A discloses a technology in which different teams play the same network battle game one of matching rooms is allocated to a user requesting participation in the game and information of the allocated user is sequentially displayed as a matching room screen.

However when newly participating in a network game if allocated to a matching room where other user has already entered other user exists in a matching room image. A user participating later than other user forms impression that the user himself or herself is a guest participating later and a consciousness to contribute to participating in the game with a positive attitude is hindered. Thus there is a problem that a heated game is difficult. If network games difficult to be heated are increased there is a concern that the prosperity of network game industry will be declined.

The present invention has been made in view of such problems and is directed to provide a terminal device a system and a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing game program which can further enhance the enjoyment by performing matching processing such that each of users participating in the network game has a positive attitude.

An aspect of the present invention relates to a server device. The server device includes a reception unit that receives a request for participation in a network game allowing one or more users to participate therein from each of terminal devices used by a plurality of users through a communication line and a matching processing unit that integrates user information for each user terminal from which the reception unit receives the participation request to generates matching information of each user participating in the same network game to be started at the same time and notifies the generated matching information to each user terminal from which the reception unit receives the participation request. The matching information to be notified by the matching processing unit is different for each terminal device of notification destination so as to be displayed as if the terminal device of the notification destination made the earliest participation request regardless of order of the participation request.

According to such an aspect the matching information to be notified is displayed as if the terminal device of the notification destination made the earliest participation request regardless of order of the participation request. Thus each user participating in the game can recognize that the user himself or herself first expressed the participation in the game. Therefore it is easy to heat up the game by accelerating contribution to participating in the game with a positive attitude and the enjoyment can be enhanced. Thus the prosperity of network game industry will be raised

Also the matching processing unit may include a matching information generation unit that generates first matching information including only user information to be notified for each user of the notification destination and second matching information including at least user information other than the user of the notification destination and a matching information transmission unit that notifies the first matching information generated by the matching information generation unit and notifies the second matching information thereafter. Also the matching information generation unit may generate the first matching information and generate the second matching information thereafter.

According to such an aspect the first matching information including only the user information of the user of the notification destination and the second matching information including at least the user information other than the user of the notification destination are sequentially generated and notified. On the display screen of the user terminal the effect that the user himself or herself is the first participant is displayed and other game participants are displayed thereafter. Therefore the user participating in the game can feel as if the user first entered the matching room.

Also the reception unit may receive a search request for progressing the network game. Also the matching information generation unit may generate the second matching information in response to the reception of the search request in the reception unit.

According to such an aspect the second matching information is generated in response to the reception of the search request from the user. The first matching information for the corresponding user is generated and notified earlier than the second matching information. Thus the user can feel as if he or she first expressed the participation in the game. Also the search button is displayed on the screen of the user terminal which is generated based on the matching information the operation is performed in the terminal device so that the mission game can be progressed during the waiting time until the matching is completed. Therefore the interest in the game can be accelerated while keeping the user from being bored.

When generating the second matching information the matching information generation unit may generate the matching information such that the user information of other user having high affinity with the user of the user terminal of the notification destination is preferentially included.

According to such an aspect when the information of other user is included in the matching information the information of other users having high affinity is preferentially included. Therefore the sense of excitation of the user can be enhanced and the enjoyment of the network game can be improved

Also the user information may include one or more of user identification information a user name an avatar and a comment input by the user. Also the reception unit may receive comment information for each user terminal receiving the participation request. The matching information generation unit may include the comment information received by the reception unit as the matching information to be notified to each user terminal participating in the same network game to be started at the same time.

According to such an aspect when generating the matching information based on the user information the matching information includes any one of a user name an avatar and a comment input by the user or a combination thereof. By generating the matching image based on the matching information including them the sense of excitation of the user can be enhanced by the matching image having excellent visibility in graphics.

Also the matching processing unit may include the participation order information in which the user information of the terminal of the notification destination is ranked No. 1 in the matching information and may include the user information in descending order of the participation order among terminals other than the notification destination with respect to No. 2 and later.

The matching information according to such an aspect includes participation order information in which the user information of the terminal of the notification destination is ranked No. 1 and includes the user information in descending order of the participation order among terminals other than the notification destination with respect to No. 2 and later. Therefore each user participating in the game can recognize that the user himself or herself first expressed the participation in the game

Also another aspect of the present invention is a method. The method includes receiving a request for participation in a network game allowing one or more users to participate therein from each of terminal devices used by a plurality of users and integrating user information for each user which receives the participation request by the reception unit generating matching information of each user participating in the same network game to be started at the same time and notifying the generated matching information to each terminal device receiving the participation request. The matching information is different for each terminal device of notification destination so as to be displayed as if the terminal device of the notification destination made the earliest participation request regardless of order of the participation request.

Also another aspect of the present invention is a program. The program includes receiving a request for participation in a network game allowing one or more users to participate therein from each of terminal devices used by a plurality of users and integrating user information for each user which receives the participation request by the reception unit generating matching information of each user participating in the same network game to be started at the same time and notifying the generated matching information to each terminal device receiving the participation request. The matching information is different for each terminal device of notification destination so as to be displayed as if the terminal device of the notification destination made the earliest participation request regardless of order of the participation request.

Also even though the above elements are combined in any form and the expression of the present invention changes to the device the system and the computer program these are effective as the aspects of the present invention.

According to the present invention interest of all of a plurality of users participating in the game can be enhanced by appropriately performing matching processing of the network game.

Before describing embodiments of the present invention the overview of the present invention will be first described. The present invention relates to matching processing when determining a matching in a game that is started at the same time in a network game played via a network by a plurality of users.

In the conventional matching processing in a case where an expression of participation in a game is later than another participating user the participating user recognizes that a consciousness to contribute to participating in the game with a positive attitude is hindered. Thus there is a problem that a heated game is difficult.

The present invention has been made in an effort to solve the above problems and is directed to provide a heated network game environment in which interest of each participating user is increased by performing matching processing to a user who has first expressed participation.

Hereinafter an example to which the present invention is applied to a network game especially a social game will be described.

Herein a social game will be briefly described. The social game refers to application game software that operates based on a platform such as an Application Programming Interface API or the like that generally operates on a web browser by using SNS information. Hereinafter it will be simply referred to as a browser game.

Also the social game uses the SNS information but an application program may be downloaded to each terminal device operated by a user and the application program is executed in each terminal device to transmit and receive various parameters between each terminal device and the server device. Hereinafter it will be simply referred to as an application.

Also the following processing which is an example of the present invention can be performed in the server device that provides a game as a browser game and can be performed in a program that is executed as an application game on the terminal device side. Also the example to be described below is for understanding of the present invention and is not intended to limit the technical scope of the present invention.

First a first embodiment will be described. is a diagram illustrating a social game system according to a first embodiment. The social game system includes a server device a network connecting the server device and a base station via a wired line a first base station to a third base station represented by base stations a first mobile terminal to a third mobile terminal represented by mobile terminals and a PC terminal .

Also for convenience of illustration the base stations and the mobile terminals are illustrated as only three units but are not limited thereto. More base stations and more mobile terminals may be present. The same is also true of the PC terminal . Also the first mobile terminal to the third mobile terminal are illustrated as being connected to different base stations respectively but are not limited thereto. It is apparent that the present invention can be applied even when a plurality of mobile terminals is connected to one base station .

The server device is a device for executing and providing a social game service. The server device performs communication processing for game processing with the mobile terminals or the PC terminal through the network and the base station . Also in the following for simplicity of description it will be just expressed as performing communication processing between the server device and the mobile terminals or the PC terminal and a description about the point through the network and the base station will be omitted. Also in the following the mobile terminals or the PC terminal may be collectively expressed as user terminals. Also the server device may be a platform that provides such a service to the network game or may be a server that provides an application of the network game.

The server communication unit communicates with an external SNS server device or user terminal through the network . Also the server device may also serve as the SNS server device and the SNS server device is not illustrated.

The user information management unit acquires user information registered in an SNS from the SNS server device and simultaneously manages information of the user registered in the social game in the server memory . Also the user information management unit uploads the user information including the information acquired from the SNS server device to the server memory . The server memory stores card management data and the like used in the network game using card as well as the user information.

The user information is any one of user identification information a user name an avatar a comment input by the user or a combination thereof. Such user information is used when a matching room image is generated in the image generation unit to be described below and an image is generated which allows one image to visually recognize another user and can enhance the sense of realism.

Also the user identification information is a unique code for identifying the user. Also a level is a user level that sequentially increases based on the number of participations in the game or an obtained experience point. Also a progress status is information indicating how far each user progresses the game. Also possessed card identification information is identification information on a variety of cards such as a character card used in a team battle.

Returning to the game management unit performs a variety of processing and management such as the progress of the social game and the management of quest. The game management unit controls the progress of the game accesses the user information or the card management data stored in the server memory and performs predetermined processing.

When a request for participation in a team battle of which the quest is selected from the user terminal is made the matching processing unit performs a team allocation of a user based on the selected quest and simultaneously generates matching information. The matching processing unit generates matching information of each user participating in the same network game starting at the same time by integrating the user information of each user receiving the participation request through the server communication unit . Furthermore the matching processing unit notifies the generated matching information to each user terminal receiving the participation request through the server communication unit .

At this time the matching information transmitted to each user terminal is different for each user terminal requesting participation. For example when a plurality of user terminals requests participation in the same network game starting at the same time the matching processing unit generates different matching information for each terminal device as if the user terminal of the notification destination made the earliest participation request regardless of the order of the participation request. As if . . . made the earliest participation request includes displaying as the first participant regardless of the original order of participation. For example the participation order information may be forcibly set to No. 1 and the arrangement order of the user information within the matching information may be set to be always at the forefront.

Also by generating or notifying the matching information in two steps a timing difference may be provided to the displaying of the information of the participating user on the user terminal. Such an aspect can allow each of the respective participating users themselves to be recognized as the first participating user regardless of the respective participation timings. Details will be described below.

Also the matching processing unit may include the participation order information in which the user information of the terminal of the notification destination is ranked No. 1 in the matching information and may include the user information in descending order of the participation order among terminals other than the notification destination with respect to No. 2 and lower. The participation order information may indicate the display order in the terminal. Therefore the same effect as that described above can be obtained by transmitting the matching information in which the participation order information is included only one time even without transmitting the matching information over a plurality of times.

Also the matching information is constituted by the matched user information. The matching information may be the matching image itself. However in the present embodiment the separate image generation unit may be used to generate a matching room image on the assumption that the matching image is the waiting room. The matching processing unit outputs the matching information to the image generation unit .

The image generation unit generates the matching room image as the matching image based on the matching information output from the matching processing unit . The generated matching room image is transmitted to each user terminal through the server communication unit .

Herein in each user terminal the matching room image is displayed using the API of the web browser. When the matching processing unit outputs the matching information to each user terminal through the server communication unit the matching room image can be generated using the API on the terminal side. In this case data communication is performed based on parameter information without transmitting the matching room image itself on the network and it is preferable in an environment with a narrow network band.

The server communication unit receives a signal from each user terminal performs predetermined demodulation processing and transmits the demodulated signal to the user information management unit the game management unit the matching processing unit and the image generation unit . Also the server communication unit performs predetermined modulation processing on signals transmitted from the user information management unit the game management unit the matching processing unit and the image generation unit and transmits the modulated signals to each user terminal. Also as the modulation and demodulation processing by the server communication the modulation and demodulation technique used in the past may be used and it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention can be applied to even such an aspect.

Next the matching processing unit will be described with reference to . is a diagram illustrating an example of a configuration of the matching processing unit of . The matching processing unit includes a reception unit a matching distribution unit and a matching information generation unit .

The reception unit receives a request for participation in a team battle related to a network game in which one or more users can participate from each of the user terminals used by the plurality of users through the communication line and the server communication unit . In the request parameters such as to which quest the request for the participation in the team battle is who is the user from which terminal the request is the are extracted and stored in the server memory and the corresponding request is output to the matching distribution unit .

Also the reception unit receives comment information for each user terminal receiving the participation request and receives a search request to search for enemies so as to progress the network game. Details will be described below.

Herein a brief description will be given with reference to . is a diagram illustrating a first screen display example of the user terminal of . is a diagram illustrating a second screen display example of the user terminal of . Also although the screen display of the user terminal is used for ease of understanding such a screen display is to be generated by the image generation unit and displayed on the screen of the user terminal under the instruction of the game management unit and the matching processing unit of the server device . Although the configuration or operation of the terminal will be described below the following embodiment will be described on the assumption that an input operation by a touch panel is performed on the screen but the operation may be a mouse operation.

In the first screen display example a user specific my page screen being a basic screen of a social game a return button to be used when a game is ended various menu buttons another user s avatar a comment field corresponding to the avatar and a hunt button triggering to start a battle are displayed. Also in the second screen display example a quest selection screen an avatar and a quest select button are displayed while being overlapped with the screen of the first screen display example .

If the user performs an input operation to the hunt button when the first screen display example is displayed the screen is transitioned to the second screen display example illustrated in and the quest selection screen appears. Herein the hunt is a trigger for starting a battle game.

In a hunt mode an avatar a user name a rank a point to next rank a remaining life point LP an LP gauge and the like are displayed on the quest selection screen as the information of the user who performs the input operation to the hunt button . Also a plurality of quest select buttons appears and the user selects one of them.

Also the quest is different in an upper limit of the number of participants a level of difficulty a reward for acquisition and the like. The user performs the input operation to select an appropriate quest considering the user s own status strength of a deck and the like. Also the level of difficulty the reward for acquisition and the like are displayed on the quest select button . In the quest a team is organized by a plurality of users and a team battle battling against an enemy character is performed.

The user terminal is triggered by the input operation of the quest select button to communicate with the server device and transmits a participation request to the reception unit .

Returning to the matching distribution unit allocates a team to each user making the participation request according to whether the input operation has been performed to the quest select button uploads the information to the server memory and outputs the information the matching information generation unit . Such an operation is continued until the upper limit of the number of participants of each quest.

The matching information generation unit generates matching information for each user terminal so as to generate a matching room image to be transmitted to each user terminal based on the output from the matching distribution unit and the information of the server memory . Specifically the following examples will be taken.

In the above information of users making a request for participation in the same quest is described in order of participation request from above. Herein when the user 3 performs the participation request for the second time the information of the user 1 is included in the matching information before the user 3. Then when the matching room image based on the matching information is generated the avatar of the user 1 is previously included which gives an impression that the user 3 will participate in the team as a guest later. Therefore in the present embodiment even when the users make the participation request in the above order the matching information for generating the matching room screen to be transmitted to the terminal of the user 3 for the first time is generated as follows.

The matching information may include information of users participating in the quest information indicating the participation order and past quest results. The user information may include a user ID or a user name a user ID matched in the past and the like. The quest results may include accumulated points the number of winning the number of participations level information card information and the like.

That is the matching information to be transmitted to each user terminal for the first time includes only the user information of the user himself or herself and excludes the user information of other users.

Also the matching information for generating the matching room screen to be transmitted to the terminal of the user 3 for the second time is generated as follows for example.

Also the matching information for generating the matching room screen to be transmitted to the terminal of the user 3 for the third time is generated as follows for example.

The above is the matching information to be transmitted to the user 3 but the matching information to be transmitted to the user 2 is as follows.

That is regarding the order of the user information in the matching information the user information of the terminal of the notification destination is ranked No. 1 and the user information is provided in descending order of the participation order among terminals other than the notification destination with respect to No. 2 and lower. That is regarding the order of the user information in the matching information if the user information of the terminal of the notification destination is ranked No. 1 the user information ranked No. 2 and lower may be random.

As describe above in the present embodiment the operation of the terminal is preferentially included in the user information and user information is added one by one when next matching information is generated regardless of the order of the participation request.

However the present invention is not limited thereto and only the user information of a difference from the previously transmitted matching information may be included. Also the second or subsequent matching information may be generated in response to the reception of the search request at the reception unit which will be described below. Also only the matching information generated after the number of the applicants reaches the quota may be transmitted without transmitting the matching information whenever the first to third matching information described above is generated. Even in such an aspect it can be shown as if the user terminal of the notification destination made the earliest participation request.

Each user himself or herself who is to participate in the game can be recognized as No. 1 of the expression of the participation in the game and therefore the game can be easily heated so as to accelerate the contribution with the positive attitude with respect to the corresponding team.

By performing the generation of the matching information for each user terminal as described above each user can feel as if the user himself or herself first entered the matching room. Therefore independence arises to heat up the game and the user can enjoy the heated game as a whole.

Also by gradually adding other user information one by one instead of adding other user information at a time the expectation of the game is gradually increased. Therefore the user can feel a sense of excitation and the enjoyment of the game can be improved.

Herein when adding the ranking No. 2 or subsequent user information included in the matching information a study on priority order can be conducted. Hereinafter a brief description will be given. The server memory of the server device includes history information that can achieve a correlation between users. For example the affinity is determined based on the correlation such as the number of times of organizing the team together shortness of a count time from a date and time when the team was organized most recently a degree of connection on the SNS a species of character attribute s level and the like and the user of higher affinity is preferentially added to the user information. In the case of conducting such a study first the user information of the user making a request for participation in a certain quest is polled. Among them the matching between the users is performed according to the history information in which the correlation between the respective users can be achieved.

By preferentially adding the user information having the high affinity to the user can feel as if close users are gathered in a hurry. Therefore the sense of excitation can be enhanced and the enjoyment of the game can be improved. Also since the users having the high affinity are matched as the same team it is highly likely that exchange will occur between users and the exchange between user can be further activated.

Herein the screen when the matching information generated by the matching information generation unit is notified to the user terminal will be described with reference to . is a diagram illustrating a third screen display example of the user terminal of . is a diagram illustrating a fourth screen display example of the user terminal of . In the third screen display example and the fourth screen display example a battle participation announcement field a timer field a user information display field and a matching room image are displayed.

In the display field of the matching room image avatar and comment are displayed together as the information of the users who made a request for participation in the team battle and are allocated to the same team. Herein in the matching room image the battle participation announcement field displaying the user name and the timer field displaying a remaining time to a participation deadline are displayed based on the user information added most recently.

As illustrated in the fourth screen display example of the user information is sequentially displayed on the display field and avatar images or comments are increased. That is in the third screen display example of 3 minutes left displayed on the timer field only the user information of the user himself or herself is displayed. In the fourth screen display example of 2 minutes left other user information is added. Regardless of the order of the user s participation request this is displayed in such an order. Also there are many cases where the user information of the user himself or herself browsing the matching room image is unnecessary. In that case the user information of the user himself or herself and the matching room screen need not be actively displayed. It is obvious that the present embodiment also includes that.

Next in the user terminal processing after the input operation is performed on the quest select button in the second screen display example illustrated in FIG. will be described with reference to . is a diagram illustrating a fifth screen display example of the user terminal of . In the fifth screen display example a menu image a member select button an input field and a reselect button are displayed.

After the input operation is performed on the quest select button of the second screen display example illustrated in the screen display is transitioned to the fifth screen display example . A member selection and comment input menu image is displayed and a member select button limiting members organizing a team is displayed on the menu image .

In the fifth screen display example two buttons are displayed as the member select button and one mode of limited to friend in the SNS and OK anyone can be selected. Also there is the input field where greeting can be input and it is possible to deepen the friendship with other uses by inputting greeting comments. Also the reselect button for performing quest reselection processing is displayed. When the input operation is performed on the reselect button the operation of returning to the quest selection screen illustrated in is performed.

Herein when the OK anyone mode is selected in the member select button users having selected the same quest select button within a given time are allocated to the same team. However when the team battle participation requesters reaches the maximum team quota of the quest the team allocation is ended and the team battle game is progressed. Also when it has come to the participation deadline without reaching the upper limit of the participation in the team battle the game is progressed by replenishing a so called Non Player Character NPC instead of a general user. In a state where a position is vacated the fighting strength of the team may be lowered to disrupt the progress of the game or the enjoyment of the user may be inhibited.

Then in the user terminal when the input operation is performed on the member select button and the comment is input to the input field the matching room image illustrated in the third screen display example of or the fourth screen display example of is displayed on each user terminal participating the corresponding team battle or the comment is displayed on a comment scroll field in to be described below in a form corresponding to the avatar image corresponding to the user terminal inputting a comment.

A plurality of buttons for the team battle such as the search button is displayed on the matching room image and the input operation is possible thereon. By performing the input operation on the search button in the matching room the user finally finds enemies and enters the battle game by the organized team.

Also the second screen display example and the third screen display example illustrated in are different from the third screen display example illustrated in . All the matching room images are displayed but the information of the user making the request for participation in the team battle is arranged for example in a combination of the avatar or the comment in the second screen display example and the third screen display example .

Specifically for example the information of the user making the request for participation in the team battle is sequentially displayed in the team member display field as the avatar and the comments are displayed in the comment scroll fields and and are automatically scrolled. When the comments are displayed the avatars corresponding to the user terminals inputting the corresponding comments may be processed to flash on and off. By the above the comment overlaid on the matching room image flows to thereby enhance the performance effect.

During the waiting time before the start of the team battle the user may be kept from being bored by enjoying communicating with other users through chatting using the comment in the matching room.

Herein specifically actions performed by the user while waiting in the matching room will be described. The user can play for example a mission game that searches fields by performing an input operation on the search button . This is because the user is kept from being bored by performing entertainment using the time until the start of the team battle. In such a mission game the user can acquire various game contents such as an experience point an in game currency a card or an item. Whenever the user performs the input operation on the search button other users gradually come to join the team.

Also such an entertainment is not limited to the mission game and may be a quiz game or a shooting game. Also when playing the mission game the displaying may be output such that previously teach information of enemies to battle from now like during analysis or data of analysis result . . . weakness . . . By performing such processing the waiting time is more meaningful in the matching room screen and the user s interest in the game can be enhanced.

Next the case of entering the team battle mode will be described with reference to . is a diagram illustrating a seventh screen display example of the user terminal of . The seventh screen display example is an example in which an enemy a battle image and an attack button are displayed.

In the team battle mode the enemy is displayed in the field of the battle image . In the seventh screen display example unlike the matching room screen the search button is not present and the attack button for starting the attack against the enemy is displayed instead. Each user progresses the battle by making an attack against the enemy through the input operation on the attack button or the like.

Next the configuration of the user terminal will be described with reference to . is a diagram illustrating an example of a configuration of the mobile terminal or the PC terminal of . Herein for convenience of description the configuration of the mobile terminal will be described but the PC terminal has the same configuration.

The mobile terminal includes a terminal communication unit a terminal control unit a user interface and a terminal memory . The terminal communication unit receives an application downloaded from the server device or a variety of information transmitted from the server device .

The terminal control unit receives the instruction from the user through the user interface controls the installation of the application or controls the API control of the social game while accessing the terminal memory .

Also the user interface includes a screen interface for displaying a message to the user various screens such as the social game matching room screen or the like an input interface for receiving an input of a keyboard or a touch panel from the user and an image capturing unit such as a camera.

The user interface receives the selection of the quest from the user that is the request for participation in the team battle or the input of various comments the operation of the action button and the like and transmits them to the terminal control unit .

The terminal memory is used to store a corresponding application when an android game is downloaded from an application provision platform. Also even in the browser game the terminal memory is used as a cache memory or is used to temporarily store image data.

Hereinafter as an example of an operation when the user A makes a request for participation in a team battle an overall operation of the user terminal on the assumption of the browser game will be described below.

When the user A starts a web browser and selects a social game site the terminal control unit uses the terminal communication unit to receive data of the social game in a way of running on the web browser communicating with the server device .

In the user interface a guidance to perform a procedure of login to the social game may be displayed but for simplicity of description it will be omitted for simplicity. The social game will be described as started.

In the user interface the first screen display example illustrated in is displayed and the user A performs an input operation on the hunt button . The terminal control unit performs communication with the server device by using the terminal communication unit downloads the quest selection screen illustrated in stores the quest selection screen in the terminal memory and displays the quest selection screen on the user interface .

Then the user A performs an input operation on the quest select button . The terminal control unit performs communication with the server device by using the terminal communication unit transmits the quest select button that is the request for participation in the team battle to the server device downloads the menu screen illustrated in from the server device stores the menu screen in the terminal memory and displays the menu screen on the user interface .

Then the user A performs a comment input operation on the comment input field and performs an input operation on the member select button . The terminal control unit performs communication with the server device by using the terminal communication unit transmits the input comment information and the member selection information to the server device downloads the matching room image illustrated in from the server device stores the matching room image in the terminal memory and displays the matching room image on the user interface .

Herein when the matching room image is generated in the server device even in a case where there are other users selecting the same quest in the step of receiving the request for participation in the team battle from the terminal of the user A the information of other users is transmitted to the user terminal without being included in the matching room image .

Then the matching room image is displayed and the user A performs an input operation on the search button . The terminal control unit performs communication with the server device by using the terminal communication unit downloads from the server device the image or the like relevant to the mission game corresponding to the search button stores the image in the terminal memory and displays the image relevant to the mission game on the user interface .

Then when there is information of other users making a request for participation in the same quest with respect to the server device in a state where the matching room image is displayed the server device may transmit information to the user terminal while including the information of other users in the matching room image as illustrated in when generating the matching room image .

Then the terminal control unit performs communication with the server device by using the terminal communication unit downloads the matching room image illustrated in from the server device stores the matching room image in the terminal memory and displays the matching room image on the user interface .

Then when the reception period of the request for participation in the team battle has elapsed the server device transmits the battle image including the information of the enemy or users participating in the team battle to the user terminal.

Then the terminal control unit performs communication with the server device by using the terminal communication unit downloads the enemy illustrated in from the server device stores the enemy in the terminal memory and displays the enemy on the user interface .

Then while the user A performs an input operation on the attack button the information to the effect of the attack is transmitted to the server device and the battle processing proceeds to the server device . Thereafter the operation is repeated until the battle is ended based on the operation of the user A and the server device transmits the battle image including the image of the enemy or the hit point HP consumption of the enemy to the user terminal.

First the matching processing unit receives a request of a user A or other user for participation in a team battle from a user terminal through the server communication unit S . As described above the participation request is performed by the operation of the quest select button . When there is the participation request the user information and the terminal information are stored together in the server memory .

Herein whether the matching information or the matching room image in the quest is first transmitted to the user A receiving the participation request is determined by the record of the server memory . When it is determined as first Yes of S the matching information is generated without including the information of other users S . On the other hand when it is determined as not first No of S the matching information is generated by including the information of for example the user making the first participation request among other users making the request for participation in the team battle S . In this case by using history information capable of achieving the correlation between the respective users a user having high affinity with the user A may be extracted among other users making the request for participation in the team battle and matching information including the information of the user may be generated.

Then the generated matching information is transmitted to the user terminal of the user A S . Herein as described above the matching room image can be generated based on the matching information and be transmitted to the user terminal.

Finally the matching processing unit determines whether it is in a state where the matching should be ended such as whether the matching time is ended or whether the participants of the team battle reaches the upper limit. When determined to be ended Yes of S the matching processing unit ends the processing and when determined not to be ended No of S the matching processing unit repetitively processes the flow until the end condition.

First the terminal control unit transmits participation request information to the server device through the terminal communication unit that receives the operation of the request of the user A for the participation in the team battle from the user interface S . As described above the participation request is performed by the operation of the quest select button .

Then the terminal control unit acquires information of all users making a request for participation in the same quest at that time from the server device through the terminal communication unit S . In the above the processing of the matching information is performed in the server device . However in the case of the application since that processing can be performed on the terminal side there is no problem even if the information of all users is acquired. It is one modification of the present embodiment.

Herein the terminal control unit determines whether the matching information or the matching room image in the quest is first generated to the user A receiving the participation request. When it is determined as first Yes of S the matching room image is generated based on the generation of the matching information without including the information of other users S . On the other hand when it is determined as not first No of S the matching information is generated by including the information of for example the user making the first participation request among other users making the request for participation in the team battle S . In this case by using history information capable of achieving the correlation between the respective users a user having high affinity with the user A may be extracted among other users making the request for participation in the team battle matching information including the information of the user may be generated and a matching room image may be generated based on the matching information. A parameter to determine the affinity may use a parameter held on the terminal side and any method of acquiring the parameter by performing communication with the server device may be used.

Finally the terminal control unit determines whether it is in a state where the matching should be ended such as whether the matching time is ended or whether the participants of the team battle reaches the upper limit. When determined to be ended Yes of S the terminal control unit ends the processing and when determined not to be ended No of S the terminal control unit repetitively processes the flow until the end condition. Also the acquisition of the parameter determining whether it is in a state where the matching should be ended may be appropriately performed in the acquisition of participation request information S .

As described above the respective embodiments have been described. However when performing the matching processing in the matching information indicating the matching state of the team or the matching image matching room image displayed on the terminal side each user himself or herself feels that he or she first participated in the team. Thus the independence of the user to the social game is significantly improved and each user actively participates in the social game thereby obtaining the effect of heating up the game as a whole and making the game amusing.

The present invention has been described with reference to the embodiments. The present invention is not limited to the above described embodiments and the contents of the respective embodiments and various modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. The embodiments are merely exemplary and it is apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications can be made in a combination of each element or each processing process and such modifications also fall within the scope of the present invention.

