---

title: Leveraging a social network to search for local inventory
abstract: In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure, a method for leveraging a social network to search for local inventory includes communicating with a first mobile communication device over a network, the first mobile communication device associated with a user, and communicating with a second mobile communication device over the network, the second mobile communication device associated with a social network contact. The method further includes obtaining a geo-location of the second mobile communication device, processing a search request from the first mobile communication device, obtaining a radius of coverage for a merchant, determining whether the geo-location of the second mobile communication device is within the radius of coverage of the merchant, and providing a listing to the first mobile communication device of one or more items for sale by the merchant when the second mobile communication device is within the radius of coverage of the merchant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09129334&OS=09129334&RS=09129334
owner: EBAY INC.
number: 09129334
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140114
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 174 180 filed Jun. 30 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In online financial transactions customers search for and purchase products through electronic communications with online merchants over electronic networks including mobile communication networks. During the course of these online transactions customers may not readily know the physical location of the products or the merchants offering the products for sale or purchase consideration. Currently mobile devices may be used to search for a local item but if the item is not found within a GPS search radius from the mobile device one may have to manually search for the items by checking stores via web sites calling and so forth.

Finding a store or product outside of a search radius would most likely be an inconvenient distance for pickup and one may not buy the item or purchase the item online and wait. Typically after purchase these products are shipped via mail to an address related to the customers. Sometimes waiting for the purchased products can be inconvenient and unnecessary.

Accordingly there currently exists a need to localize merchant searches that give the customers ready access to products and services.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to facilitating financial transactions over a network and to location based mobile commerce. In various embodiments systems and methods for leveraging a social network to search for local inventory include communicating with a first mobile communication device over a network the first mobile communication device associated with a user and communicating with a second mobile communication device over the network the second mobile communication device associated with a social network contact. The method further includes obtaining a geo location of the second mobile communication device processing a search request from the first mobile communication device obtaining a radius of coverage for a merchant determining whether the geo location of the second mobile communication device is within the radius of coverage of the merchant and providing a listing to the first mobile communication device of one or more items for sale by the merchant when the second mobile communication device is within the radius of coverage of the merchant.

In another embodiment a method includes communicating with a first mobile communication device over the network the first mobile communication device associated with a user and communicating with a second mobile communication device over the network the second mobile communication device associated with a social network contact. The method further includes obtaining a geo location of the second mobile communication device processing a search request from the first mobile communication device obtaining a radius of coverage for a merchant determining whether the geo location of the second mobile communication device is within the radius of coverage of the merchant and providing a listing to the first mobile communication device of one or more items for sale by the merchant when the second mobile communication device is within the radius of coverage of the merchant. The method further includes requesting the social network contact to pick up the one or more items for sale from a merchant location offering an incentive to the social network contact to accept the pickup request receiving a purchase request for at least one item on the listing from the user via the first mobile communication device and processing the purchase request on behalf of the user and the merchant.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Embodiments of the invention and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the invention and not for purposes of limiting the same.

It is understood that the following disclosure provides many different embodiments or examples for implementing different features of the disclosure. Specific examples of components and arrangements are described below to simplify the present disclosure. These are of course merely examples and are not intended to be limiting. Moreover the formation of a first feature over or on a second feature in the description that follows may include embodiments in which the first and second features are formed in direct contact and may also include embodiments in which additional features may be formed interposing the first and second features such that the first and second features may not be in direct contact. Various features may be arbitrarily drawn in different scales for the sake of simplicity and clarity. It is noted that the same or similar features may be similarly numbered herein for the sake of simplicity and clarity. In addition some of the drawings may be simplified for clarity. Thus the drawings may not depict all of the components of a given apparatus e.g. device or method.

Various aspects of the present disclosure will be described herein with reference to drawings that are schematic illustrations of idealized configurations of the present disclosure. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus the various aspects of the present disclosure presented throughout this disclosure should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of elements e.g. regions layers sections substrates etc. illustrated and described herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. By way of example an element illustrated or described as a rectangle may have rounded or curved features and or a gradient concentration at its edges rather than a discrete change from one element to another. Thus the elements illustrated in the drawings are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of an element and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

Unless otherwise defined all tennis including technical and scientific teal s used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this disclosure belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and this disclosure.

As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. The term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that although the terms first second third and so on may be used herein to describe various elements or devices the elements or devices should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one element or device from another element or device. Thus a first element or device discussed below could be termed a second element or device without departing from the teachings of the present disclosure.

It is understood that several processing steps and or features of a device may be only briefly described such steps and or features being well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Also additional processing steps or features can be added and certain of the following processing steps or features can be removed and or changed while still implementing the claims. Thus the following description should be understood to represent examples only and are not intended to suggest that one or more steps or features is required.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide systems and methods for location based mobile commerce such as by leveraging a social network to search for local inventory. Embodiments of the present disclosure provide end to end systems and methods for merchants to list items products and services that may be searched and purchased through a user based device and or searched based on geo location of the user s social network contacts devices. In one implementation merchants have the capability to create an electronic shop via a communication network such as via a mobile communication device e.g. a cell phone and or the Internet. The electronic shop may be integrated with purchase and payment options e.g. an online payment processing service for a user to purchase directly from the user s mobile communication device.

In another implementation service offering of the location based mobile commerce may be optimized based on the user s geo location and preferences and or by leveraging the user s social network contacts and their geo location and preferences. In one aspect geo location may be based on zip code information and or location information e.g. longitude and latitude via global positioning system GPS coordinates which may be established by the service offering. For example the system and methods may utilize GPS information inherent in mobile communication devices or a user s manual input of GPS and or zip code information. A user may search for items products and services based on geo location information related to merchants the user and or the user s social network contacts and the user s search results for intended items products and services to be purchased may be displayed as a merchant listing to the user via a mobile communication device. In one example the user may scan a barcode of an item to search for the item in a current locality.

In another implementation comparison shopping may be facilitated by overlaying search results with different merchants and network based shopping platforms. Advantageously a search may be expanded by leveraging social network contacts who are willing to participate in searches and or pick up purchased items. In one example incentives may be offered to social network contacts for picking up items.

Merchants may interface with mapping and GPS capability inherent to mobile communication devices to monitor and track querying users. Accordingly merchants have the capability to view potential buyers of their items products and services. In one aspect merchants have the capability to generate a detailed report on searches for their items products and services with information related to querying statistics from different locations. For example merchants may view which items are searched the most from which locations and merchants may generate a report on whether increasing a radius of coverage could improve sales.

In another example the merchant may receive notification that an item has been purchased e.g. through a text an email and or a resident client application . In another example the merchant may manage item listing via a mobile communication device e.g. supply chain management inventory control etc . These and other embodiments of the present disclosure will be described in greater detail herein.

Referring now to one embodiment of a system is illustrated for facilitating financial transactions over a network including leveraging a social network to search for local inventory. Location based mobile commerce may take place via system including a network such as the Internet via e.g. mobile communication networks. As shown in the system includes a user device e.g. a client or customer device adapted to interface with one or more merchant devices e.g. business entities proffering items products and or services for purchase one or more social network contact devices and a service provider e.g. a network based financial transaction service provider such as a payment and settlement transaction provider over the network .

The network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example the network may include a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular telephone network adapted for communication with one or more other communication networks such as the Internet. In other examples the network may include the Internet one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or one or more other appropriate types of communication networks. As such in various implementations the user device the one or more merchant devices the one or more social network contact devices and the service provider server may be associated with a particular link e.g. a link such as a URL Uniform Resource Locator to an IP Internet Protocol address .

The user device in various embodiments may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . In one embodiment the user device may be implemented as a mobile communication device e.g. wireless cellular phone adapted for communication with the network . In other embodiments the user device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a personal digital assistant PDA a notebook computer and or various other generally known types of wired and or wireless computing devices for communication with the network . It should be appreciated that the user device may be referred to as a client device or a customer device without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The user device in one embodiment includes a user interface application which may be utilized by a user to conduct network based financial transactions e.g. remote network based commerce such as shopping purchasing bidding etc. with the one or more merchant devices and or the service provider server over the network . For example the user interface application may be implemented as a location based mobile commerce application to initiate track manage and store information related to remote network based commerce for viewing searching and purchasing of items products and or services over the network . In one implementation the user device may be linked to an account with the service provider server for direct and or automatic settlement of purchase requests between the user and the one or more merchant devices via the user interface application in a manner as described herein.

In one embodiment the user interface application comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the one or more merchant devices the one or more social network contact devices and or the service provider server via the network . In one aspect the user interface application comprises a browser module that provides a network interface to browse information available over the network . For example the user interface application may be implemented in part as a web browser to view and search information available over the network . In another example the user is able to access merchant websites of the one or more merchant devices over the network to view search and select items products and or services for purchase and the user is able to purchase selected items products and or services from the one or more merchant devices via the service provider server . As such the user may conduct network based financial transactions e.g. location based mobile commerce for purchasing and proffering payment for items products and or services from the one or more merchant devices via the service provider server .

The user device in various embodiments may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure to provide additional features available to the user. In one example such other applications may include security applications for implementing user side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network and or various other types of generally known programs and or software applications. In still other examples the other applications may interface with the user interface application for improved efficiency and convenience. In one example files data and or information may be imported from various types of accounting software e.g. a spreadsheet application directly into the user interface application for improved tracking of payments and settlements related to purchases via the network .

The user device in one embodiment includes a geo location component adapted to monitor and provide an instant geographical location i.e. geo location of the user device . In one implementation the geo location of the user device may include global positioning system GPS coordinates zip code information area code information street address information and or various other generally known types of geo location information. In one example the geo location information may be directly entered into the user device by the user via a user input component such as a keyboard touch display and or voice recognition microphone. In another example the geo location information may be automatically obtained and or provided by the user device via an internal or external GPS monitoring component. In one aspect when interfacing with the user device the user may elect to provide or may be prompted to provide permission for the release of geo location information. Accordingly the user may have exclusive authority to allow transmission of geo location information from the user device to the one or more merchant devices and or the service provider server . In any instance the one or more merchant devices and or the service provider server may communicate with the user device via the network and request permission to acquire geo location information from the user device for geo location based mobile commerce. These and other aspects of the present disclosure are described in greater detail herein.

The user device in one embodiment includes a network interface component NIC adapted for communication with the network . In various implementations the network interface component may comprise a wireless communication component such as a wireless broadband component a wireless satellite component or various other types of wireless communication components including radio frequency RF microwave frequency MWF and or infrared frequency IRF components adapted for communication with the network . In other various implementations the network interface component may be adapted to interface with a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices adapted for communication with the network .

The user device in one embodiment may include a user identifier which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the user interface application identifiers associated with hardware of the user device and or various other appropriate identifiers. The user identifier may include one or more attributes related to the user such as personal information related to the user e.g. one or more user names passwords photograph images biometric ids addresses phone numbers etc. and banking information e.g. one or more banking institutions credit card issuers user account numbers security data and information etc. . In various aspects the user identifier may be passed with a user login request or purchase request to the service provider server via the network and the user identifier may be used by the service provider server to associate the user with a particular user account maintained by the service provider server in a manner as described herein.

The one or more merchant devices in one embodiment may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . In one embodiment the merchant device may be implemented as a mobile communication device e.g. wireless cellular phone adapted for communication with the network . In other embodiments the merchant device may be implemented as a network server a personal computer PC a personal digital assistant PDA a notebook computer and or various other generally known types of wired and or wireless computing devices for communication with the network .

In another embodiment the one or more merchant devices may be maintained as one or more network servers by one or more business entities e.g. merchant sites resource information sites utility sites real estate management sites social networking sites etc. offering various items products and or services for purchase and payment which may need registration of user identity information as part of offering the items products and or services to one or more users over the network . Accordingly each of the one or more merchant devices may comprise at least one network based server in communication with the network having a merchant interface application a products services database and a marketplace application for presenting and identifying one or more available items products and or services for purchase via the network which may be made available to the user device for viewing and purchase by the user. In one aspect each of the network based merchant servers may be accessible via a mobile communication device e.g. wireless cellular phone for management purposes. For example each merchant entity has the ability to access and interact with their own network based merchant server via a mobile communication device to manage merchant parameters item listings radius of coverage user search statistics etc. and to generate reports related thereto.

In one embodiment each of the merchant devices includes the merchant interface application which may be utilized by the one or more merchant devices to conduct network based financial transactions e.g. remote network commerce such as shopping purchasing bidding etc. with one or more users and or the service provider server over the network . For example the merchant interface application may be implemented as a location based mobile commerce application to initiate track manage and store information related to remote network based commerce for the viewing searching and purchasing of items products and or services over the network . In one implementation each of the merchant devices may be linked to an account with the service provider server for direct and or automatic settlement of purchase requests between each merchant and one or more users via the merchant interface application and the marketplace application in a manner as described herein.

In one embodiment the merchant interface application comprises a software program such as a GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with one or more users and or the service provider server via the network . In another implementation the merchant interface application comprises a network interface module that makes information available to the user device over the network . For example the merchant interface application may be implemented in part as a website manager to provide list and present information to the user device via the network . In another example each merchant device is capable of providing one or more network based merchant websites to allow viewing searching and selecting of items products and or services for purchase by the user via the user device and the user is able to purchase items products and or services from the one or more merchant devices via the merchant websites and the service provider server . Accordingly each of the merchant devices may conduct financial transactions e.g. location based mobile commerce for purchasing and proffering payment for items products and or services with the user via the merchant interface application and the service provider server in a manner as described herein.

Each of the merchant devices in one embodiment may include a marketplace application which may be configured to provide information related to the products and or services database to the user interface application of the user device via the network . For example the user may interact with the marketplace application through the user interface application over the network to search and view various items products and or services available for purchase from the products services database . The marketplace application may include a checkout module which may be configured to facilitate online financial transactions e.g. geo location based mobile commerce by the user of items products and or services identified by each merchant server for purchase. Accordingly in one aspect the checkout module of the marketplace application may be configured to accept payment from the user over the network and process the payment via interaction with the service provider server in a manner as described herein.

Each of the merchant devices in various embodiments may include at least one merchant identifier which may be included as part of the one or more items products and or services made available for purchase so that e.g. particular items products and or services are associated with particular merchant devices . In one implementation the merchant identifier may include one or more attributes and or parameters related to the merchant such as business and or banking information. For example the merchant identifier may be passed from a particular merchant to the service provider server when the user selects an item product and or service for hold monitor and or purchase from the particular merchant . The merchant identifier may be used by the service provider server to associate particular items products and or services selected for purchase with a particular merchant account maintained by the service provider server . As described in greater detail herein the user may conduct financial transactions e.g. selection monitoring purchasing and or providing payment for items products and or services with each merchant server via the service provider server over the network .

In various embodiments each of the one or more business entities having a related merchant server may need to establish at least one merchant account with the service provider server . When establishing a merchant account each of the one or more business entities may need to provide business information such as owner name owner address social security number date of birth phone number email address etc. and financial information such as banking information merchant account information credit card information payment processing information etc.

Each of the merchant devices in various embodiments includes a network interface component NIC adapted for communication with the network . In various implementations the network interface component may comprise a wireless communication component such as a wireless broadband component a wireless satellite component or various other types of wireless communication components including radio frequency RF microwave frequency MWF and or infrared frequency IRF components adapted for communication with the network . In other various implementations the network interface component may be adapted to interface with a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices adapted for communication with the network .

The one or more social network contact devices in one embodiment may be substantially similar to the user device but is used by the user device to facilitate online financial transactions for example to expand a geographic area search for local inventory to expand a geographic area search for optimized search results and or to expand optimize pickup capability of purchased items. In other embodiments the one or more social network contact devices may have a subset of the elements of the user device . The one or more social network contact devices is associated with one or more social network contacts of the user who is associated with user device . A social network contact is used as but one illustration and may refer to various human contacts through various relationships with the user. For example a social network contact may be in relationship with the user through various networks such as an online social network an offline social network an online professional network an offline professional network an organizational network a family network and so on.

Each of the social network contact devices in various embodiments may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over the network . In one embodiment the social network contact device may be implemented as a mobile communication device e.g. wireless cellular phone adapted for communication with the network . In other embodiments the social network contact device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a personal digital assistant PDA a notebook computer and or various other generally known types of wired and or wireless computing devices for communication with the network . It should be appreciated that the social network contact device may be referred to as a client device or a customer device without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

Each of the social network contact devices in one embodiment includes a social network contact interface application which may be utilized by a social network contact to accept or reject search requests geo location release requests pickup requests incentives submit search pickup preferences submit pickup confirmations and so forth. In various embodiments social network contact interface application may also include functionality similar to user interface application including capability to conduct network based financial transactions e.g. remote network based commerce such as shopping purchasing bidding etc. with the one or more merchant devices and or the service provider server over the network . For example the social network contact device may also be implemented as a location based mobile commerce application to initiate track manage and store information related to remote network based commerce for viewing searching and purchasing of items products and or services over the network . In one implementation the social network contact device may be linked to an account with the service provider server for direct and or automatic settlement of incentives e.g. money transfers upon notification of a pickup between the user and the one or more social network contact devices via the user interface application in a manner as described herein.

In one embodiment the social network contact interface application comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with the user device and or the service provider server via the network . In one aspect the social network contact interface application comprises a browser module that provides a network interface to browse information available over the network . For example the social network contact interface application may be implemented in part as a web browser to view and search information available over the network . In another example the social network contact is able to access merchant websites of the one or more merchant devices over the network e.g. to view search and select items products and or services for pickup to view merchant location directions and or to setup an appointment for pickup for example directly with merchant device or via the service provider server .

Each of the social network contact devices in various embodiments may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure to provide additional features available to the user. In one example such other applications may include security applications for implementing social network contact side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network and or various other types of generally known programs and or software applications. In still other examples the other applications may interface with the social network contact interface application for improved efficiency and convenience. In one example files data and or information may be imported from various types of accounting software e.g. a spreadsheet application directly into the social network contact interface application for improved tracking of settlements related to incentives pickups via the network .

Each of the social network contact devices in one embodiment includes a geo location component adapted to monitor and provide an instant geographical location i.e. geo location of the social network contact device . In one implementation the geo location of the social network contact device may include global positioning system GPS coordinates zip code information area code information street address information and or various other generally known types of geo location information. In one example the geo location information may be directly entered into the social network contact device by the social network contact via a user input component such as a keyboard touch display and or voice recognition microphone. In another example the geo location information may be automatically obtained and or provided by the social network contact device via an internal or external GPS monitoring component. In one aspect when interfacing with the social network contact device the social network contact may elect to provide or may be prompted to provide permission for the release of geo location information. Accordingly the social network contact may have exclusive authority to allow transmission of geo location information from the social network contact device to the user device and or the service provider server . In any instance the user device and or the service provider server may communicate with the social network contact device via the network and request permission to acquire geo location information from the social network contact device for geo location based mobile commerce. These and other aspects of the present disclosure are described in greater detail herein. The social network contact device may thus opt in out or accept reject search requests from a user device or service provider server .

Each of the social network contact devices in one embodiment includes a network interface component NIC adapted for communication with the network . In various implementations the network interface component may comprise a wireless communication component such as a wireless broadband component a wireless satellite component or various other types of wireless communication components including radio frequency RF microwave frequency MWF and or infrared frequency IRF components adapted for communication with the network . In other various implementations the network interface component may be adapted to interface with a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices adapted for communication with the network .

Each of the social network contact devices in one embodiment may include a social network contact identifier which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the social network contact interface application identifiers associated with hardware of the social network contact device and or various other appropriate identifiers. The social network contact identifier may include one or more attributes related to the social network contact such as personal information related to the social network contact e.g. one or more social network contact names passwords photograph images biometric ids addresses phone numbers etc. and banking information e.g. one or more banking institutions credit card issuers social network contact account numbers security data and information etc. . In various aspects the social network contact identifier may be passed with a social network contact login search or pickup preferences pickup notification or incentive request to the service provider server via the network . The social network contact identifier may also be used by the service provider server to associate the social network contact with a particular social network contact account maintained by the service provider server in a manner as described herein.

The service provider server in one embodiment may be maintained by an online transaction processing entity which may provide processing for online financial transactions and or information transactions between the user device one or more of the merchant devices and or one or more of the social network contact devices . As such the service provider server includes a service interface application which may be adapted to interact with the user device each merchant device and or each social network contact device over the network to facilitate the selection purchase and or payment of items products and or services by the user device from one or more of the merchant devices . In some instances the search and selection of items by a user of the user device is facilitated by one or more of the social network contact devices . In one example the service provider server may be provided by PayPal Inc. and or eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. USA.

The service interface application in one embodiment utilizes a payment processing module to process purchases and or payments for financial transactions between the user device and each of the merchant devices . In one implementation the payment processing module assists with resolving financial transactions through validation delivery and settlement. Accordingly the service interface application in conjunction with the payment processing module is adapted to settle indebtedness between the user device and each of the merchant devices wherein accounts may be directly and or automatically debited and or credited of monetary funds in a manner as accepted by the banking industry.

The service interface application in one embodiment also utilizes a payment processing module to process incentives e.g. money payments for purchased item pickup between the user device and each of the social network contact devices . In one implementation the payment processing module assists with resolving financial transactions through validation delivery and settlement. Accordingly the service interface application in conjunction with the payment processing module is adapted to settle indebtedness between the user device and each of the social network contact devices wherein accounts may be directly and or automatically debited and or credited of monetary funds in a manner as accepted by the banking industry.

The service application in one embodiment may utilize a selection processing module to process and monitor user selection events during online shopping by the user via the user device . In one aspect the selection processing module allows the service provider server to process and monitor user selections during online navigation and shopping events over the network . For example the service provider server interfaces with the user device via e.g. a browser window to monitor the user and the user device during navigation and shopping events on various merchant sites. The selection processing module may be used by the service provider server to monitor user selections of one or more items products and or services.

The service provider server in one embodiment may be configured to maintain one or more user accounts merchant accounts and social network contact accounts in an account database each of which may include account information associated with one or more individual users and user devices the one or more merchants and merchant devices and the one or more social network contacts and social network contact devices . For example account information may include private financial information of the user each merchant and each social network contact such as one or more account numbers passwords credit card information banking information or other types of financial information which may be used to facilitate online financial transactions between the user the one or more merchant devices and the one or more social network contact devices . In various implementations the methods and systems described herein may be modified to accommodate additional users social network contacts and or additional merchants that may or may not be associated with at least one existing user account social network contact account and or merchant account respectively.

In one implementation the user and or the user device may have identity attributes stored with the service provider server and the user and or user device may have credentials to authenticate or verify identity with the service provider server . In one aspect user attributes may include personal information and banking information as previously described. In various other aspects the user attributes may be passed to the service provider server as part of a login selection purchase and or payment request and the user attributes may be utilized by the service provider server to associate the user and or the user device with one or more particular user accounts maintained by the service provider server .

Similarly in another implementation each of the merchant devices may have identity attributes stored with the service provider server and each of the merchant devices may have credentials to authenticate or verify identity with the service provider server . In one aspect merchant attributes may include business information and banking information as previously described. In various other aspects the merchant attributes may be passed to the service provider server as part of a login and or transaction request and the merchant attributes may be utilized by the service provider server to associate each of the merchant devices with one or more particular merchant accounts maintained by the service provider server .

Similarly in another implementation each of the social network contact devices may have identity attributes stored with the service provider server and each of the social network contact devices may have credentials to authenticate or verify identity with the service provider server . In one aspect social network contact attributes may include personal info nation and banking information as previously described. In various other aspects the social network contact attributes may be passed to the service provider server as part of a login selection pickup notification and or payment request and the social network contact attributes may be utilized by the service provider server to associate the social network contact and or the social network contact device with one or more particular user accounts maintained by the service provider server .

The service provider server in various embodiments may include at least one network interface component NIC adapted for communication with the network and any network based communication devices including the network interface component of the user device the network interface component of each merchant and the network interface component of each social network contact device . In various implementations the network interface component of the service provider server may include a wireless communication component such as a wireless broadband component a wireless satellite component or various other types of wireless communication components including radio frequency RF microwave frequency MWF and or infrared frequency IRF components adapted for communication with the network . In other various implementations the network interface component may be adapted to interface with a DSL e.g. Digital Subscriber Line modem a PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network modem an Ethernet device and or various other types of wired and or wireless network communication devices adapted for communication with the network .

The service provider server in various embodiments may include one or more databases e.g. internal and or external databases for storing and tracking information related to financial transactions between particular users such as the user the one or more merchant devices the one or more social network contact devices and the service provider server . For example the databases may provide a historical survey of financial transactions e.g. remote network based financial transactions such as geo location based mobile commerce between the user device the one or more merchant devices the one or more social network contact devices and the service provider server . As such in one implementation the service interface application may be adapted to track log store financial transaction information related to network based commerce between the user device each merchant device and each social network contact device and then access this financial information from the databases for analysis maintenance and settlement.

The one or more databases e.g. internal and or external databases may also be utilized for storing and tracking information related to search and pickup transactions between the user associated with user device and the one or more social network contacts associated with the one or more social network contact devices . For example the databases may provide a historical survey or data of accepted or opt in searches from the user device or service provider server by the one or more social network contact devices and or data of accepted pickup requests from the user device or service provider server by the one or more social network contact devices . As such in one implementation the service interface application may be adapted to track log store accepted searches or pickup requests as well as financial transaction information e.g. monetary incentives between the user device and each social network contact device and then access this financial information from the databases for analysis maintenance settlement and or future search pickup requests.

In one implementation upon user instruction the user interface application may be installed and or run on the user device block . A user may run the user interface application on the user device to access the service provider server block via the network . In one aspect upon installation and or execution of the user interface application the user may be prompted to establish a user account for login with the service provider server wherein the user may use the user interface application and the user device to access the service provider server via the network . When establishing a user account the user may be asked to provide personal information such as name address phone number etc. and financial information such as banking information credit card information etc. In another aspect referring to information related to the user may be packaged as a user identifier.

Next the user releases geo location information to the service provider server by e.g. setting release parameters block . In one aspect the user geo location information includes user information related to a physical location or position of the user device embedded as arguments in an expression which are passed to the service provider server via the network . The user geo location information may include GPS coordinates e.g. longitude and latitude inherent to the user device such as a mobile cellular phone and or zip code information. The user geo location information may include user identifier information having dynamic arguments identifying the user. The user may manually set geo location information such as a zip code and or longitude and latitude coordinates.

In another aspect release parameters may be manually set by the user. For example the user may allow automatic distribution of geo location information for any query by the one or more merchants associated with the service provider server or the user may only allow release of geo location information for some trusted merchants. For example the user may elect to grant permission to preferred merchants and exclude other merchants that the user deems undesirable.

In one embodiment location based mobile commerce may be optimized based on the user s geo location and preferences. For example the geo location of the user may be based on zip code information and or location information e.g. GPS coordinates which may be established by the service provider by utilizing GPS information inherent in the user device e.g. mobile communication device or a user s manual input of GPS and or zip code information to the user device . Accordingly a user may search for items products and services based on geo location information related to either the user the social network contacts or the merchants and the user s search results for intended items products and services to be purchased may be displayed as a merchant listing to the user via the user device . In one example the user may scan a barcode of an item to search for the item in a current locality.

Next the user provides merchant and or product search parameters block . In one implementation the user may provide merchant and or product search parameters to search and view items products and or services for purchase consideration. In another implementation comparison shopping may be facilitated by overlaying search results with different merchants and network based shopping platforms. Users may interface with mapping and GPS capability inherent to the user device to monitor and track items products and services offered by particular merchants. As such users have the capability to view items products and services for comparison shopping.

The user also provides a decision as to whether or not to include social network contacts and their associated device locations in the merchant and or product search parameters decision block . If not then the search may be conducted with mapping and GPS capability inherent only to the user device . If yes then the user may provide social network contact information and preferences block and incentive preferences block . Social network contact info illation e.g. name address mobile phone number etc. may be provided by the user manually via user device automatically from a contacts list in user device or manually automatically from a social network server which may be separate from or within service provider server . Social network contact preferences are user preferences specified for a social network contact and may include for example selecting certain contacts to be included in the search certain contacts to be excluded in the search automatic inclusion of all contacts inclusion of contacts only if the search local to the user device is unsuccessful e.g. falls below a threshold of listings categorization of contacts and so on. Incentive preferences may include for example incentive messages incentive types incentive amounts timing of incentive offers incentive associated with a specified contact and so on.

Next the user reviews merchant and or product listings block . In one aspect the merchant and or product listings is displayed as one or more searchable lists on a display component of the user device such as a viewable text image on a display of a mobile communication device. In one aspect the merchant and or product listings may be grouped as local to the user or local to one or more social network contacts.

Next the user may make a decision as to whether or not to request a pickup of a product by a social network contact decision block . The user may decide to purchase online and wait pick up the product him herself e.g. if the product is local to the user or request a pickup by a social network contact.

If the user decides to request a pickup by a social network contact Yes the user may send a request for pickup by the social network contact block . The user may send a request via user device to social network contact device by way of email text message or an automated pickup request from server . The request may also be made through the service provider the merchant the social network or another third party. An incentive may or may not be offered to the social network contact block . If the social network contact agrees to the pickup request the user may select a merchant and or product block and conducts a purchase transaction block . In one implementation the user interfaces with the service provider server to provide a purchase request for one or more items products and or services selected from the merchant and or product listing. The service provider server is adapted to process the purchase transaction on behalf of the user and the merchant. If the social network contact does not agree to the pickup request the user may select another social network contact local to the desired purchase item and request a pickup by the second social network contact. The user may continue pickup requests from social network contacts until successful. Pickup requests selection of social contacts and incentive offers may be filtered against social network contact preferences and incentive preferences provided by the user blocks .

If the user decides not to request a pickup by a social network contact No the user may select a merchant and or product block and conduct a purchase transaction block . In one implementation the user interfaces with the service provider server to provide a purchase request for one or more items products and or services selected from the merchant and or product listing. The service provider server is adapted to process the purchase transaction on behalf of the user and the merchant.

In one implementation upon merchant instruction the merchant interface application may be installed and or run on the merchant devices block . A merchant may run the merchant interface application on the merchant device to access the service provider server block via the network . In one aspect upon installation and or execution of the merchant interface application the merchant may be prompted to establish a merchant account for login with the service provider server wherein the merchant may use the merchant interface application and the merchant device to access the service provider server via the network . When establishing a merchant account the merchant may be asked to provide business information such as business name address phone number etc. and financial information such as banking information credit card information etc. In another aspect referring to information related to the merchant may be packaged as a merchant identifier.

Next the merchant generates and or accesses an electronic shop or listing related to the merchant block . In one implementation the electronic shop refers to a listing of items products and or services proffered for sale or purchase consideration provided by the merchant to the service provider server . One or more items products and or services listed by the merchant may be sent to the user device by the service provider server when the user conducts a merchant and or products search. This listing of items products and or services may be sent to the user device via the network when the user is in a particular radius of coverage e.g. preferred region indicated by the merchant.

In one embodiment the system of and method of provides merchants the capability to list items products and services that may be searched and purchased through a user based mobile communication device. In one implementation merchants have the capability to create an electronic shop via the network via a mobile communication device e.g. a cell phone . The electronic shop may be integrated with purchase and payment options via the service provider for a user to purchase directly from the user s mobile communication device .

Next the merchant may review and or manage merchant parameters from the merchant device block . In one aspect the merchant parameters may include a designation of a radius of coverage e.g. preferred region of coverage such as a specified zip code or a physical region for the merchant. For example if the merchant is located in a particular zip code then the merchant prefers to list items products and or services provided by the merchant to the user device when the user searches for items products and or services related to the merchant. As such the merchant is able to target particular user devices e.g. user device that is searching for items products and or services that the merchant offers for sale or purchase consideration. Likewise the merchant may target other client devices e.g. user device and social network contact devices as their geo locations are included in the search for merchant items products and or services.

In one embodiment radius of coverage may be related to geo location information such as GPS coordinates e.g. longitude and latitude inherent to the physical location of the merchant the user and or the social network contact. The merchant geo location information may include merchant identifier information having dynamic arguments identifying the GPS position of the merchant and in some instances the GPS position of the items products and or services as indicated by the merchant. The merchant may manually set geo location information such as a zip code and or longitude and latitude coordinates or the service provider server may provide these coordinates based on an address provided by the merchant.

In one embodiment location based mobile commerce may be optimized based on the user s and social network contacts geo location and preferences. In one aspect merchants may target geo locations that may be based on zip code information and or location information e.g. longitude and latitude via GPS coordinates which may be established by the service provider .

Other merchant parameters may include when and how often the list of items products and or services may be sent to user devices . For example the merchant may allow automatic distribution of listings for any query by one or more users associated with the service provider server or the merchant may only allow distribution of listings for particular users. For example the merchant may only allow distribution listings to be sent to users that may be interested in their items products and or services.

Next the merchant may review and or manage merchant product listings from the merchant device block . In one aspect the merchant may provide descriptions of items products and or services for sale or purchase consideration. In another aspect the merchant may manage item listing e.g. supply chain management inventory control etc via a mobile communication device.

Next the merchant may review and or manage user search statistics from the merchant device block . In one embodiment merchants may interface with mapping and GPS capability inherent to mobile communication devices to monitor and track querying users via the network . As such merchants have the capability to view potential buyers of their items products and services. In one aspect merchants have the capability to generate a detailed report on searches for there items products and services with information related to querying statistics from different locations. For example merchants may view which items are searched the most from which locations and merchants may generate a report on whether increasing a radius of coverage could improve sales. In another embodiment merchants may receive notification that an item product and or service has been purchased e.g. through a text an email and or a resident client application .

Next the merchant may request a merchant report from the merchant device block . The merchant report may outline current and or past merchant parameters including radius of coverage product listings and user search statistics. The merchant report may include any changes made to merchant parameters including radius of coverage and product listings.

In one implementation the service provider server receives a login request from the user via the user device block and then the service provider server processes the user login request block . In one aspect upon receiving the user login request the service provider server may determine whether the user is an existing user having an established user account by e.g. checking a user account list in a user account database. If the user does not have an established user account then the service provider server prompts the user to establish a user account by providing user information and the service provider server uploads the user interface application to the user device so that the user may install and run the user interface application on user device . Once the user interface application is installed and run on the user device the service provider server prompts the user for release of current geo location information block . Otherwise if the user is determined to be an existing user by the service provider server then the service provider server verifies the user account and user identification information provider by user in the user login request. The service provider server may determine if the user account is current and active. In some instances user account information may need to be updated and thus the service provider server may prompt the user to update user account information in the user account for the user. However if the user account is current and active then the service provider server prompts the user for release of current geo location information block . It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the service provider server may cancel the user login request at any time during the process of method A if e.g. it is determined by the service provider server that the user enters wrong information or the user is trying to purchase an item with criminal intent. Similar login account creation and account verification procedures as described above with a user and user device are applicable to a social network contact and social network contact device .

Next if the user releases current geo location information the service provider server is adapted to obtain the user s geo location information from the user device block via communication between the service interface application and the user interface application of the user device . Accordingly the service provider server may use the geo location information of the user to process user search requests for merchants and items products and services of these merchants.

Next the service provider server is adapted to receive and process user search requests from the user device block . In one implementation the service provider server is adapted to track user selections by monitoring user events as provided by the user and the user device via the user interface application . The user selections may be constantly updated when e.g. the user makes changes e.g. additions deletions movements etc. to user selections via the user interface application . In another aspect the service provider server is adapted to display updated user selections to the user via the user interface application . The service provider server may store either temporarily or permanently the user selections and or any changes to the user selections for reference and other additional processing.

The service provider server is also adapted to receive and process a user decision as to whether or not to include social network contacts and their associated social network contact device locations in the merchant and or product search parameters decision block . If the user decides to not include social network contacts in the search No then the search may be conducted with mapping and GPS capability inherent only to the user device . If the user decides to include social network contacts in the search Yes then the service provider server may receive and process social network contact information and preferences block and incentive preferences block provided by the user as further described above. Service provider server may then prompt selected social network contacts for release of geo location information block and obtain social network contact geo location information if allowed block .

Similar account login account creation and account verification procedures as described above with a user and user device are applicable to a social network contact and social network contact device although an account is not required to be created with server for the one or more social network contact devices . After a social network contact account is created or with the installation of a social network contact interface application e.g. without account creation the service provider server may prompt the social network contact device for release of current geo location information block . Otherwise if the social network contact is determined to be an existing user by the service provider server then the service provider server verifies the social network contact account and contact identification information provided by the network contact device . The service provider server may determine if the contact account is current and active. In some instances contact account information may need to be updated and thus the service provider server may prompt the contact to update account information. However if the social network contact account is current and active then the service provider server prompts the user for release of current geo location information block .

Next if the social network contact releases current geo location information the service provider server is adapted to obtain the social network contact s geo location information from the social network contact device block via communication between the service interface application and the social network contact interface application of the user device . Accordingly the service provider server may use the geo location information of the one or more social network contacts to process user search requests for merchants and items products and services of these merchants.

Next based on user selection information received from the user device the service provider server is adapted to provide merchant and or product listings to the user block . In one aspect server may provide the merchant and or product listings as one or more searchable lists on a display component of the user device such as a viewable text image on a display of a mobile communication device. In one aspect the merchant and or product listings may be grouped as local to the user or local to one or more social network contacts.

Next server is configured to receive and process a user decision from user device as to whether or not to request a pickup of a product by a social network contact decision block . The user may decide to purchase online and wait pick up the product him herself e.g. if the product is local to the user or request a pickup by a social network contact.

If the user decides to request a pickup by a social network contact Yes the server may send a request to pickup by the social network contact block . The pickup request may be sent by email text message or any of various communication means and methods from server . An incentive may or may not be offered to the social network contact block . If the social network contact agrees to the pickup request the user may select a merchant and or product and server receives and processes the user purchase request block and conducts a purchase transaction and generates and provides a user purchase receipt block . The service provider server is adapted to process the purchase transaction on behalf of the user and the merchant. Pickup requests selection of social contacts and incentive offers may be filtered against social network contact preferences and incentive preferences provided by the user.

If the user decides not to request a pickup by a social network contact No the user may select a merchant and or product the server receives and processes the user purchase request block and conducts a purchase transaction generating and providing a user purchase receipt block . The service provider server is adapted to process the purchase transaction on behalf of the user and the merchant

In one embodiment the service provider server tracks and monitors user search and purchase requests from the merchant and or product listings. For example the service provider server links the generated merchant and or product listings and item selection information related thereto to a user account in the account database related to the user. This allows the service provider server to monitor and update the user s merchant and or product listings for the user as instructed and or requested by the user. In one aspect this tracking and monitoring information may be provided to the merchants for review.

In another embodiment the service provider server may process purchase request and any related purchase information provided by the user. The purchase request and or the purchase information may include information related to the items selected for purchase consideration in the merchant and or products listings information related to the merchant providing the selected items for purchase consideration information related to the user including user account number balance information credit card information etc. The service provider server may access the merchant device to verify purchase information including verifying that the selected item is available e.g. in stock verifying pricing information verifying that the merchant account is up to date etc.

In another embodiment the service provider server may prompt the user via the user interface application to verify a purchase request. For example the service provider server may ask the user to complete the purchase transaction by selecting a designated box to complete the purchase transaction. In this way the service provider server is adapted to allow the user to request processing and or cancellation of any online financial transactions prior to completion. Based on user request the service provider server may complete any online financial transactions by deducting the amount of the purchase request from the user account and crediting the amount of the purchase request to a related merchant account. In one aspect completing a purchase request may include confirming a purchase of the selected products to provide e.g. a receipt to the user. The user interface application may include a payment mechanism that allows the user to take different actions such as making purchase requests and providing buttons to complete the purchase at a later time.

In one implementation the service provider server receives a login request from the merchant via the merchant device block and then the service provider server processes the merchant login request block . In one aspect upon receiving the merchant login request the service provider server may determine whether the merchant is an existing merchant having an established merchant account by e.g. checking a merchant account list in a merchant account database. If the merchant does not have an established merchant account then the service provider server prompts the merchant to establish a merchant account by providing merchant information and the service provider server uploads the merchant interface application to the merchant device so that the merchant may install and run the merchant interface application on the merchant device . Once merchant user interface application is installed and run on the merchant device the service provider server provides the merchant access to an electronic shop block . Otherwise if the merchant is determined to be an existing merchant by the service provider server then the service provider server verifies the merchant account and merchant identification information provider by merchant in the merchant login request. The service provider server may determine if the merchant account is current and active. In some instances merchant account information may need to be updated and thus the service provider server may prompt the merchant to update merchant account information in the merchant account for the merchant. However if the merchant account is current and active then the service provider server the service provider server provides the merchant access to an electronic shop block related to the merchant. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the service provider server may cancel the merchant login request at any time during the process of method B if e.g. it is determined that the merchant enters wrong information or the merchant is trying to unlawfully access an electronic shop.

Next the service provider server provides the merchant with access to an electronic shop or generates an electronic shop related to the merchant block . In one implementation the electronic shop refers to a listing of items products and or services proffered for sale or purchase consideration provided by the merchant to the service provider server . One or more items products and or services listed by the merchant may be sent to the user device on behalf of the merchant by the service provider server when the user conducts a merchant and or products search. This listing of items products and or services may be sent to the user device via the network when the user is in a particular radius of coverage e.g. preferred region indicated by the merchant.

In one embodiment the service provider server allows merchants to list items products and services that may be searched and purchased by the user via the user device such as a mobile communication device. In one implementation merchants have the capability to create an electronic shop over the network via a mobile communication device e.g. a cell phone . The electronic shop may be integrated with purchase and payment options via the service provider for a user to purchase directly from the user s mobile communication device .

Next the service provider server is adapted to receive and process management requests from the merchant block including obtaining a radius of coverage from the merchant as provided or selected by the merchant. In one aspect the radius of coverage comprises information related to an area of one or more zip codes and or an area of one or more GPS coordinates including longitude and latitude coordinates.

In one implementation the merchant may review and or change merchant parameters from the merchant device . For example merchant parameters may include a designation of the radius of coverage e.g. preferred region of coverage such as a specified zip code or a physical region identified by GPS coordinates including longitude and latitude information identified by the merchant. For example if the merchant is located in a particular zip code then the merchant prefers to list items products and or services provided by the merchant to the user device when the user searches for items products and or services related to the merchant. As such the merchant is able to target particular user devices e.g. user device that is searching for items products and or services that the merchant offers for sale or purchase consideration. The merchant may optimize location based mobile commerce based on the user s geo location and preferences. For example merchants may target geo locations within a specified radius of coverage that may be based on zip code information and or location information e.g. longitude and latitude via GPS coordinates which may be established by either the merchant and or the service provider .

Other merchant parameters may include when and how often the list of items products and or services may be sent to user devices . For example the merchant may allow automatic distribution of listings for any query by one or more users associated with the service provider server or the merchant may only allow distribution of listings for particular users. For example the merchant may only allow distribution listings to be sent to users that may be interested in their items products and or services.

Next the service provider server is adapted to provide the merchant with transaction statistics block provide the merchant with user search statistics block and notify the merchant of recent transactions block . In one embodiment merchants may interface with mapping and GPS capability inherent to mobile devices to monitor and track querying users via the network . As such merchants have the capability to view potential buyers of their items products and services. In one aspect merchants have the capability to generate a report on searches for there items products and services with information related to querying statistics from different locations. For example merchants may view which items are searched the most from which locations and merchants may generate a report on whether increasing a radius of coverage could improve sales. In another embodiment merchants may receive notification that an item product and or service has been purchased e.g. through a text an email and or a resident client application .

Next the service provider server is adapted to provide the merchant with a detailed report block . In one embodiment the merchant report may outline current and or past merchant parameters including radius of coverage product listings and user search statistics. The merchant report may include any changes made to merchant parameters including radius of coverage and product listings.

In one implementation upon social network contact instruction or prompting from user device or server the social network contact interface application may be installed and or run on the social network contact device . A social network contact may run the interface application on the social network contact device to contact the service provider server via the network . In one aspect upon installation and or execution of the interface application the social network contact may be prompted to establish an account for login with the service provider server . When establishing a social network contact account the social network contact may be asked to provide personal information such as name address phone number etc. and financial information such as banking information credit card information etc. In another aspect referring to information related to the social network contact may be packaged as a social network contact identifier. In another implementation a social network contact account for a social network device may not be created with service provider server .

According to one aspect method includes social network device receiving a request to be included in a merchant and or product search from user device or server block . The request may be received via text message email or various communication means and methods. The social network contact may agree to be included in the search or decline e.g. opting in or out of the search request decision block .

Next if the social network contact agrees to be included in the search the social network contact releases geo location information to the service provider server by e.g. setting release parameters block . In one aspect the social network contact geo location information includes social network contact information related to a physical location or position of the social network contact device embedded as arguments in an expression which are passed to the service provider server via the network . The social network contact geo location information may include GPS coordinates e.g. longitude and latitude inherent to the social network contact device such as a mobile cellular phone and or zip code information. The social network contact geo location information may include social network contact identifier information having dynamic arguments identifying the social network contact. The social network contact may manually set geo location information such as a zip code and or longitude and latitude coordinates.

In another aspect release parameters may be manually set by the social network contact. For example the social network contact may allow automatic distribution of geo location information for any query by the one or more users associated with user devices or associated with the service provider server or the social network contact may only allow release of geo location information for some trusted users or service providers. For example the social network contact may elect to grant permission to preferred users and exclude other users that the social network contact deems undesirable.

Next if the social network contact agrees to be included in the search and releases geo location information the social network contact may provide social network contact preferences to the service provider server block . Social network contact preferences include preferences which the social network contact has related to search or pickup. For example social network contact preferences may include distance willing to travel for a pickup of a purchased item a black list of merchants or locations for search and or pickup release of social network contact calendar entries from device and so forth.

In one embodiment location based mobile commerce may be optimized based on the one or more social network contact s geo location and preferences. For example a user may search for items products and services based on geo location information related to the user the social network contacts and or the merchants and the user s search results for intended items products and services to be purchased may be displayed as a merchant listing to the user via the user device .

Next the social network contact may or may not be selected by a user to request a pickup of a desired item decision block . If the user decides to request a pickup by the social network contact Yes the social network contact receives a request for pickup of one or more products or services block . The request from user device or server may be received on social network contact device by way of email text message or an automated pickup request from server . An incentive may or may not be offered to the social network contact block . If the social network contact agrees to the pickup request the social network contact may pick up the product and notify the user by way of email text message or various communication means and methods via server or directly to user device block . An incentive may then be received block if offered at block . The incentive may include a money transfer to a social network contact account from a user account processed by server .

Referring now to a block diagram is illustrated of a computer system suitable for implementing one or more embodiments of the present disclosure including the user device the one or more merchant devices the one or more social network contact devices and the service provider device e.g. a server . In various implementations the client devices e.g. user device and network contact device may comprise a personal computing device capable of communicating with the network such as a personal computer laptop cell phone PDA etc. the one or more distribution channels e.g. merchant devices may comprise a network computing device such as a network server and the service provider device may comprise a network computing device such as a network server. Hence it should be appreciated that each of the devices may be implemented at least in part by computer system in a manner as follows.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure computer system such as a cell phone a personal computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components such as processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. system memory component e.g. RAM static storage component e.g. ROM disk drive component e.g. magnetic or optical network interface component e.g. modem or Ethernet card display component e.g. CRT or LCD input component e.g. keyboard touch screen and cursor control component e.g. mouse or trackball . In one implementation disk drive component may comprise a database having one or more disk drive components.

In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure computer system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component or disk drive component . In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the present disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive component volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications.

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the present disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice embodiments of the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. network of such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

Thus the present disclosure provides for various embodiments of systems and methods for leveraging a social network to search for local inventory. In one embodiment a method includes communicating with a first mobile communication device over a network the first mobile communication device associated with a user and communicating with a second mobile communication device over the network the second mobile communication device associated with a social network contact. The method further includes obtaining a geo location of the second mobile communication device processing a search request from the first mobile communication device obtaining a radius of coverage for a merchant determining whether the geo location of the second mobile communication device is within the radius of coverage of the merchant and providing a listing to the first mobile communication device of one or more items for sale by the merchant when the second mobile communication device is within the radius of coverage of the merchant.

The method may further include wherein the geo location of the second mobile communication device is obtained automatically by permission from the social network contact or when a geo location of the first mobile communication device is not within the radius of coverage of the merchant.

The method may further include requesting the social network contact to pick up the one or more items for sale from a merchant location and offering an incentive to the social network contact to accept the pickup request. In one example the incentive may include an electronic money transfer provided when notification of pickup of the one or more items has been received.

The method may further include receiving preferences from the first mobile communication device on the social network contact and receiving preferences from the second mobile communication device on search requests or pickup requests. The method may further include obtaining calendar data of the social network contact via the second mobile communication device.

The method may further include re processing a search request after a time delay communicating with a third mobile communication device over the network the third mobile communication device associated with another social network contact obtaining a geo location of the third mobile communication device and determining whether the geo location of the second and third mobile communication devices are within the radius of coverage of the merchant.

The method may further include communicating with a plurality of mobile communication devices over the network the plurality of mobile communication devices associated with a plurality of social network contacts and obtaining a geo location of each of the plurality of mobile communication devices. Then the method may further include processing a search request from the first mobile communication device to include the plurality of social network contacts obtaining a radius of coverage for a plurality of merchants determining whether the geo location of each of the plurality of mobile communication devices are within a radius of coverage of the plurality of merchants and determining an optimized search result from the processed search request. The optimized search result may include a lowest price for a searched item.

More particularly in one embodiment a person s social network may be used to assist in the search for a wanted item. The person searching searcher e.g. a user associated with a user device may bring up a mobile search application e.g. a user interface application that would search for local item s inventory. The searcher may enter the desired item s into the application and the application would retrieve the local GPS coordinates from the media device. The searcher may have the option to include social network friends e.g. contacts associated with a social network contact device within the search. In this case the searcher may only use the social network friend search if they are unsuccessful with only their personal local search. However they may also choose to automatically include the social network friend search.

The searcher may ask to include the friend s or friends location into the item inventory search. The friend could have a setting to automatically accept these types of searches and include their position e.g. geo location in a friend search or the friend must accept the request in order to be included in the search e.g. via a social network contact interface application . If the searcher s local search fails to find the item inventory in their GPS search radius but it is found in a friend search radius the searcher may be notified. The searcher may then provide an incentive to give the friend to go and pick up the item. For example the user application could send the friend located near the item an SMS message saying if you go pick up this item I will buy lunch or provide a PayPal money transfer once the item has been purchased.

If the social network friend is included in the item inventory search the friend could set preferences on search. For example the friend is only willing to go X amount of miles out of their way to get the item. The friend can have a black list where they will not go to a particular store or location to buy an item. For example a friend may be boycotting a particular merchant and the searcher is looking for a product from the particular merchant. The search application would see that this friend would not go to the particular merchant even if it was in their area and thus not include the friend in the social network friend search. The searcher may offer an incentive to temporarily override preferences from friends and they may be prompted with this incentive. If the friend accepts the override their location is included in the search.

Additionally the search application used by the searcher could be enabled to be aware of the social network friend s calendar. The application could use this information and make a decision on whether or not to include a particular friend in the search. For example if the friend s calendar has an entry around the time of the search and it is important to the friend the application will opt not to use that friend. The application could also use general time available around calendar entries to make the determination about whether or not to use the friend in the search. In this case for example if the friend s calendar has an entry indicating an interview within the next hour of the search the friend is not likely to be available to pick up the item even if it is in their location.

If the searcher was not able to find the item with the available friends in the social network at the time of the search the application could delay the search for a specified amount of time. During the delay time the application could continue to look for friends not included in the original search. If a friend becomes available and the item is found in their area the searcher may be notified. Additionally the application may or may not include friends that are not in a close proximity of the searcher e.g. within the same city etc. . However the searcher could put a priority how much they want it on the item thus including friends that it may not have originally included.

As the searcher uses their social network friends for searching they could put preferences on the social network. For example the searcher could categorize the friend who is willing to pick up items for them and the type of items. For example a searcher may opt to not include their mom if they are searching for a special type of alcohol. The application could also automatically categorize the friends who have picked up items in the past. The searcher could use this information to indicate a willingness to help so as to not use a particular friend too much. The searcher could also specify that the item they are searching for is for a friend in their social network and to not include that friend in the social network friend search.

The search application may automatically use a social network friend search to look for the best priced deal. The searcher could specify that they are looking for the deal and to include all available social network friends. The application could compare the price s of the local search to the prices of the social network friends prices. The searcher could opt for a friend to pick up the item to take advantage of a good price.

Person A wants to buy brand name vintage black leather pants for Person B. Person A user her mobile device and opens a local and friend search application. Person A enters her search criteria and searches for the product local only to her mobile device. However she can t find the leather pants in her search radius. Person A decides to tell the search application to use her social network friends location to search for the item but not to include Person B in the search. In doing the search leveraging her social network contacts the application determines that her friend Person C has a merchant selling the product near person C s location. Person A sends a personalized message to person C asking if she is willing to pick up the leather pants. Person C is glad to help out and Person A pays for the pants. Person A sends Person C a thank you gift and the application notes Person C s willingness to help out.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. For example incentives may or may not be offered and if offered they may be offered at different times in the methods described above than illustrated. For example incentives may be offered with a pickup request only after a rejected pickup request or not at all. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

