---

title: Flipped cell sensor pattern
abstract: Embodiments of a capacitive sensor array may comprise a plurality of large sensor electrodes and, for each of the large sensor electrodes, a first plurality of small sensor electrodes each capacitively coupled with the large sensor electrode, and each conductively coupled by one of a first set of routing traces to one of a first set of conductors located in a first edge region, and a second plurality of small sensor electrodes capacitively coupled with the large sensor electrode and conductively coupled by a second set of routing traces to a second set of conductors in a second edge region. The first set of routing traces is located in a first routing channel and the second set of routing traces is located in a second routing channel, where the first and second routing channels are located along different sides of the large sensor electrode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09547031&OS=09547031&RS=09547031
owner: PARADE TECHNOLOGIES, LTD.
number: 09547031
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140613
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 918 252 filed Jun. 14 2013 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 776 405 filed on Mar. 11 2013 all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This disclosure relates to the field of touch sensors and in particular to capacitive touch sensor arrays.

Computing devices such as notebook computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks and mobile handsets have user interface devices which are also known as human interface devices HID . One user interface device that has become more common is a touch sensor pad also commonly referred to as a touchpad . A basic notebook computer touch sensor pad emulates the function of a personal computer PC mouse. A touch sensor pad is typically embedded into a PC notebook for built in portability. A touch sensor pad replicates mouse X Y movement by using two defined axes which contain a collection of sensor electrodes that detect the position of one or more conductive objects such as a finger. Mouse right left button clicks can be replicated by two mechanical buttons located in the vicinity of the touchpad or by tapping commands on the touch sensor pad itself. The touch sensor pad provides a user interface device for performing such functions as positioning a pointer or selecting an item on a display. These touch sensor pads may include multi dimensional sensor arrays for detecting movement in multiple axes. The sensor array may include a one dimensional sensor array detecting movement in one axis. The sensor array may also be two dimensional detecting movements in two axes.

Another user interface device that has become more common is a touch screen. Touch screens also known as touchscreens touch windows touch panels or touchscreen panels are transparent display overlays which are typically either pressure sensitive resistive or piezoelectric electrically sensitive capacitive acoustically sensitive surface acoustic wave SAW or photo sensitive infra red . The effect of such overlays allows a display to be used as an input device removing the keyboard and or the mouse as the primary input device for interacting with the display s content. Such displays can be attached to computers or as terminals to networks. Touch screens have become familiar in retail settings on point of sale systems on ATMs on mobile handsets on kiosks on game consoles and on PDAs where a stylus is sometimes used to manipulate the graphical user interface GUI and to enter data. A user can touch a touch screen or a touch sensor pad to manipulate data. For example a user can apply a single touch by using a finger to touch the surface of a touch screen to select an item from a menu.

The following description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems components methods and so forth in order to provide a good understanding of several embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in a simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Thus the specific details set forth are merely exemplary. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

In one embodiment a capacitance sensor coupled with a capacitive sensor array as described above may be used to scan the capacitive sensor array by measuring the self capacitances associated with each sensor electrode or the mutual capacitances between pairs of sensor electrodes. The capacitance sensor may then transmit the measured capacitance values to a host where the capacitance values may be further processed to determine for example locations of fingers or other conductive objects near or touching the surface of the capacitive sensor array. In one embodiment the host compensates for the capacitance differences between the regions having different patterns of conductive traces.

In one embodiment the sensor array includes sensor electrodes N where N is a positive integer that are disposed as a two dimensional matrix also referred to as an XY matrix . The sensor array is coupled to pins N of the processing device via one or more analog buses transporting multiple signals. In this embodiment each sensor electrode N is represented as a capacitor.

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor may include a relaxation oscillator or other means to convert a capacitance into a measured value. The capacitance sensor may also include a counter or timer to measure the oscillator output. The processing device may further include software components to convert the count value e.g. capacitance value into a sensor electrode detection decision also referred to as switch detection decision or relative magnitude. It should be noted that there are various known methods for measuring capacitance such as current versus voltage phase shift measurement resistor capacitor charge timing capacitive bridge divider charge transfer successive approximation sigma delta modulators charge accumulation circuits field effect mutual capacitance frequency shift or other capacitance measurement algorithms. It should be noted however instead of evaluating the raw counts relative to a threshold the capacitance sensor may be evaluating other measurements to determine the user interaction. For example in the capacitance sensor having a sigma delta modulator the capacitance sensor is evaluating the ratio of pulse widths of the output instead of the raw counts being over or under a certain threshold.

In one embodiment the processing device further includes processing logic . Operations of the processing logic may be implemented in firmware alternatively it may be implemented in hardware or software. The processing logic may receive signals from the capacitance sensor and determine the state of the sensor array such as whether an object e.g. a finger is detected on or in proximity to the sensor array e.g. determining the presence of the object where the object is detected on the sensor array e.g. determining the location of the object tracking the motion of the object or other information related to an object detected at the touch sensor.

In another embodiment instead of performing the operations of the processing logic in the processing device the processing device may send the raw data or partially processed data to the host . The host as illustrated in may include decision logic that performs some or all of the operations of the processing logic . Operations of the decision logic may be implemented in firmware hardware software or a combination thereof. The host may include a high level Application Programming Interface API in applications that perform routines on the received data such as compensating for sensitivity differences other compensation algorithms baseline update routines start up and or initialization routines interpolation operations or scaling operations. The operations described with respect to the processing logic may be implemented in the decision logic the applications or in other hardware software and or firmware external to the processing device . In some other embodiments the processing device is the host .

In another embodiment the processing device may also include a non sensing actions block . This block may be used to process and or receive transmit data to and from the host . For example additional components may be implemented to operate with the processing device along with the sensor array e.g. keyboard keypad mouse trackball LEDs displays or other peripheral devices .

The processing device may reside on a common carrier substrate such as for example an integrated circuit IC die substrate or a multi chip module substrate. Alternatively the components of the processing device may be one or more separate integrated circuits and or discrete components. In one embodiment the processing device may be the Programmable System on a Chip PSoC processing device developed by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation San Jose Calif. Alternatively the processing device may be one or more other processing devices known by those of ordinary skill in the art such as a microprocessor or central processing unit a controller special purpose processor digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable device. In an alternative embodiment for example the processing device may be a network processor having multiple processors including a core unit and multiple micro engines. Additionally the processing device may include any combination of general purpose processing device s and special purpose processing device s .

In one embodiment the electronic system is implemented in a device that includes the touch sensing surface as the user interface such as handheld electronics portable telephones cellular telephones notebook computers personal computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks keyboards televisions remote controls monitors handheld multi media devices handheld video players gaming devices control panels of a household or industrial appliances or other computer peripheral or input devices. Alternatively the electronic system may be used in other types of devices. It should be noted that the components of electronic system may include all the components described above. Alternatively electronic system may include only some of the components described above or include additional components not listed herein.

Capacitance sensor includes multiplexer control demultiplexer and multiplexer clock generator signal generator demodulation circuit and analog to digital converter ADC . ADC is further coupled with touch coordinate converter . Touch coordinate converter may be implemented in the processing logic .

The transmit and receive electrodes in the electrode matrix may be arranged so that each of the transmit electrodes overlap and cross each of the receive electrodes such as to form an array of intersections while maintaining galvanic isolation from each other. Thus each transmit electrode may be capacitively coupled with each of the receive electrodes. For example transmit electrode is capacitively coupled with receive electrode at the point where transmit electrode and receive electrode overlap.

Clock generator supplies a clock signal to signal generator which produces a TX signal to be supplied to the transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment the signal generator includes a set of switches that operate according to the clock signal from clock generator . The switches may generate a TX signal by periodically connecting the output of signal generator to a first voltage and then to a second voltage wherein said first and second voltages are different.

The output of signal generator is connected with demultiplexer which allows the TX signal to be applied to any of the M transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment multiplexer control controls demultiplexer so that the TX signal is applied to each transmit electrode in a controlled sequence. Demultiplexer may also be used to ground float or connect an alternate signal to the other transmit electrodes to which the TX signal is not currently being applied. In an alternate embodiment the TX signal may be presented in a true form to a subset of the transmit electrodes and in complement form to a second subset of the transmit electrodes wherein there is no overlap in members of the first and second subset of transmit electrodes .

Because of the capacitive coupling between the transmit and receive electrodes the TX signal applied to each transmit electrode induces a current within each of the receive electrodes. For instance when the TX signal is applied to transmit electrode through demultiplexer the TX signal induces an RX signal on the receive electrodes in matrix . The RX signal on each of the receive electrodes can then be measured in sequence by using multiplexer to connect each of the N receive electrodes to demodulation circuit in sequence.

The mutual capacitance associated with each intersection between a TX electrode and an RX electrode can be sensed by selecting every available combination of TX electrode and an RX electrode using demultiplexer and multiplexer . To improve performance multiplexer may also be segmented to allow more than one of the receive electrodes in matrix to be routed to additional demodulation circuits . In an optimized configuration wherein there is a 1 to 1 correspondence of instances of demodulation circuit with receive electrodes multiplexer may not be present in the system.

When an object such as a finger approaches the electrode matrix the object causes a change in the measured mutual capacitance between only some of the electrodes. For example if a finger is placed near the intersection of transmit electrode and receive electrode the presence of the finger will decrease the charge coupled between electrodes and . Thus the location of the finger on the touchpad can be determined by identifying the one or more receive electrodes having a decrease in measured mutual capacitance in addition to identifying the transmit electrode to which the TX signal was applied at the time the decrease in capacitance was measured on the one or more receive electrodes.

By determining the mutual capacitances associated with each intersection of electrodes in the matrix the presence and locations of one or more conductive objects may be determined. The determination may be sequential in parallel or may occur more frequently at commonly used electrodes.

In alternative embodiments other methods for detecting the presence of a finger or other conductive object may be used where the finger or conductive object causes an increase in measured capacitance at one or more electrodes which may be arranged in a grid or other pattern. For example a finger placed near an electrode of a capacitive sensor may introduce an additional capacitance to ground that increases the total capacitance between the electrode and ground. The location of the finger can be determined based on the locations of one or more electrodes at which a change in measured capacitance is detected.

The induced current signal is integrated by demodulation circuit . The rectified current output by demodulation circuit can then be filtered and converted to a digital code by ADC .

A series of such digital codes measured from adjacent sensor or intersections may be converted to touch coordinates indicating a position of an input on touch sensor array by touch coordinate converter . The touch coordinates may then be used to detect gestures or perform other functions by the processing logic .

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor can be configured to detect multiple touches. One technique for the detection and location resolution of multiple touches uses a two axis implementation one axis to support rows and another axis to support columns. Additional axes such as a diagonal axis implemented on the surface using additional layers can allow resolution of additional touches.

In one embodiment the processing device is connected to a host which may receive the measured capacitances or calculate high precision locations from the processing device .

The sensor array illustrated in includes sensor electrodes arranged in a diamond pattern. Specifically the sensor electrodes of sensor array are arranged in a single solid diamond SSD pattern. illustrates a capacitive sensor array having an alternate embodiment of the diamond pattern which is the dual solid diamond DSD pattern. Each of the sensor electrodes of capacitive sensor array includes two rows or columns of electrically connected diamond shaped traces. Relative to the SSD pattern the DSD pattern has improved signal disparity characteristics due to an increase in the coupling between TX and RX sensor electrodes while maintaining the same self capacitance coupling possible between each sensor electrode and a conductive object near the sensor electrode. The DSD pattern may also provide higher sensitivity for tracking smaller objects such as the point of a stylus as compared to patterns having larger features such as SSD. However the DSD pattern also increases the number of bridges such as bridge used to create the pattern which may result in decreased manufacturing yield. The increased number of bridges may also be visible if metal bridges are used. For example sensor array includes four bridges within unit cell .

Touch screen assembly includes an LCD over which a glass may be positioned. In one embodiment sensor pattern may be constructed on the surface of glass that faces the LCD . In one embodiment an air gap may separate the glass from the LCD .

In one embodiment a capacitive sensor pattern such as the SSD pattern DSD pattern or other capacitive sensor pattern described herein may include row and column sensor electrodes that can be expressed as a matrix of the intersections between the row and column electrodes. Resolution of these sensor arrays may be represented as the product of the number of columns and the number of rows. For example for a sensor array with N row electrodes and M column electrodes the number of intersections would be N M.

In one embodiment the active sensing region over which changes in capacitance may be detected is divisible into a grid of unit cells such as unit cell . Each of these unit cells may contain a sensing region corresponding to a particular pairing between a row sensor electrode and a column sensor electrode. For example the unit cell contains the sensing region between row sensor electrode and column sensor electrode . In other words the presence of a conductive object within unit cell influences the mutual capacitance between row sensor electrode and column sensor electrode more than the presence of the conductive object influences any mutual capacitance between any other pair of row and column sensor electrodes.

In one embodiment shield traces such as shield trace may be included in the capacitive sensor array to reduce crosstalk between certain row and column sensor electrode pairs. For example shield trace is located between a routing trace of row sensor electrode and column sensor electrode to reduce capacitive coupling between the electrodes and .

In one embodiment each of the row sensor electrodes and column sensor electrodes in the sensor array may be electrically connected to a conductive pad outside the active sensing region of the sensor array . For example column sensor electrode is electrically connected to a conductive pad . In one embodiment such conductive pads may be used to further connect the sensor array to a capacitance sensor so that the capacitance sensor may measure capacitances between the row and column sensor electrodes.

In one embodiment the number of conductive pads for the sensor and shield traces in the sensor array pattern of sensor array may be determined as Nz Tx Tx Rx 1 where Nz is the number of conductive pads Tx is the number of column sensor electrodes and Rx is the number of row sensor electrodes. Thus for a sensor array having three rows and four columns of unit cells as illustrated in the number Nz of conductive pads is 4 4 3 1 or 20 conductive pads. By a similar calculation a sensor array having 18 rows and 10 columns would have 200 conductive pads.

In one embodiment the capacitive sensor array may include a set of large sensor electrodes and which may be used as column sensor electrodes. In one embodiment the capacitive sensor array may include a set of small sensor electrodes such as sensor electrodes each of which is smaller in area or mass for example than any of the large sensor electrodes. The small sensor electrodes may be used as row sensor electrodes. In one embodiment the large sensor electrodes and small sensor electrodes may be formed from a single layer of conductive material.

In one embodiment each of the small sensor electrodes in the same row may be sensed independently from other small sensor electrodes in the same row alternatively the small sensor electrodes in the same row may be electrically coupled and sensed together. For example the small sensor electrodes may be sensed separately from one another or they may be coupled together and treated as a single electrode by the capacitance sensor during the sensing scan.

In one embodiment the active sensing area of the capacitive sensor array includes the area of the sensor array within which the presence of a conductive object may be detected by mutual capacitance or self capacitance scanning. In one embodiment the active sensing area may be divisible into a grid of N M unit cells each corresponding to a sensing region between one of the large sensor electrodes and one of the small sensor electrodes.

In one embodiment each of the sensor electrodes and shield traces in the sensor array may be electrically connected to their own respective conductive pads such as pads located within an edge region of the sensor array . As illustrated in the shield trace and small sensor electrode are each connected to one of the conductive pads for example. In one embodiment each of the sensor electrodes may be electrically connected to their respective conductive pads by one or more routing traces. Some sensor electrodes may include for example two or more subelements each connected to a single conductive pad thus the single conductive pad may be connected to more than one routing trace. In one embodiment the edge region in which the conductive pads are located is outside the active sensing area of the capacitive sensor array.

In one embodiment the area of the capacitive sensor array may include one or more routing channels such as routing channels and . In one embodiment row sensor electrodes may include one or more subelements connected to routing traces that extend through one of the routing channels to an edge region . In one embodiment row subelements that are on one side of a dividing line may be connected to routing traces located in different routing channels than routing traces connected to subelements that are on the other side of the dividing line . For example subelements that are located below dividing line may be routed to the edge region via routing traces which are located in different routing channels than the routing traces that connect subelements above the dividing line to the edge region .

In one embodiment each unit cell contains a substantially similar pattern of conductive material forming the sensor electrodes within the unit cell. In one embodiment the pattern within a unit cell on one side of the dividing line may be reversed or flipped relative to a pattern within a unit cell on another side of the dividing line .

In one embodiment the dividing line may be located so that of the subelements of the small sensor electrodes are on one side of the dividing line and of the subelements of the small sensor electrodes are on the other side of the dividing line . In alternate embodiments the dividing line may divide the subelements according to different ratios for example the dividing line may be positioned so that half of the subelements of the small sensor electrodes are above the dividing line and half are below.

In one embodiment the position of the dividing line may be selected in order to balance the widths of the routing channels and the resistance of the small sensor elements. For example with reference to the small sensor electrodes that are above the dividing line are connected to routing traces that are longer than the routing traces of the small sensor electrodes below the dividing line . Thus the widths of each of the longer routing traces may be greater than the widths of each of the shorter routing traces to minimize the difference in resistance between the sensor electrodes on either side of the dividing line . Accordingly in one embodiment the position of dividing line may be chosen so that the routing channel may contain fewer routing traces as compared to routing channel in order to minimize the difference between the widths of the routing channels and .

In one embodiment the capacitive sensor array may include one or more shield traces which may be grounded to reduce cross talk between TX and RX sensor electrodes. For example in an embodiment where the large sensor electrodes are used as TX sensor electrodes and the small sensor electrodes are used as RX sensor electrodes a shield trace may be located in between certain portions of the small sensor electrodes and the large sensor electrodes. As illustrated in the shield trace for example is located between the routing traces in routing channel and the large sensor electrodes surrounding routing channel thus reducing the cross talk between the large sensor electrodes and the routing traces.

In one embodiment the length of each of the shield traces may be less than the length of the sensor array such that the shield traces do not extend completely from one edge of the sensor array to the opposite edge. In one embodiment the length of the shield traces may depend on the position of the dividing line . For example the shield traces may extend from an edge region to the dividing line .

In one embodiment two or more of the small sensor electrodes in the same column of unit cells may be located on the same lateral side of the large column sensor electrode. For example the small sensor electrodes and in adjacent unit cells in the same column are both located on the left side of the large sensor electrode . In one embodiment these sensor electrodes and are consecutive in a spatial order of the small sensor electrodes along a longitudinal axis of the large sensor electrode . Specifically the small sensor electrodes and are first second and third in order from top to bottom along the axis thus the sensor electrodes and are consecutive in order and are also located on the same lateral side of the large sensor electrode .

The sensor electrodes and are also located on an opposite lateral side of the large sensor electrode from the small sensor electrode in unit cell which is in the same column of unit cells as unit cells and . While sensor electrodes and are on the left side of sensor electrode the sensor electrode is on the right side of sensor electrode .

In one embodiment a portion of each of the small sensor electrodes may be located between two interior points of an adjacent large sensor electrode. For example points and lie within the interior of the shape of sensor electrode such that a line segment between points and pass through a portion of the small sensor electrode . Thus this portion of sensor electrode lies between the interior points and . In one embodiment at least one pair of such interior points may be chosen for each small sensor electrode so that a line segment between the interior points would cross a portion of the small sensor electrode.

In one embodiment each of the large column sensor electrodes may have a main trace extending from a first end of the sensor electrode to an opposite end of the sensor electrode. For example the large sensor electrode includes a main trace that extends from one end of the electrode to the other end of electrode . In one embodiment for three small sensor electrode in the same column of unit cells a first small sensor electrode may be located on the same lateral side of a main trace of a large sensor electrode as a second small sensor electrode in an adjacent unit cell while the first small sensor electrode is located on the opposite side of the main trace from a third small sensor electrode.

For example the small sensor electrodes and are all located within the same column of unit cells including unit cells and . Small sensor electrodes and are both located on the left side of the main trace of large sensor electrode . Each of the small sensor electrodes and are also located on the opposite side of the main trace from the small sensor electrode which is located on the right side of the main trace .

In one embodiment one or more of the small sensor electrodes may include multiple subelements electrically coupled together by one or more routing traces. For example the small sensor electrode may include two subelements and that are connected together by routing trace . In one embodiment the subelements may be located in adjacent unit cells. For example subelement is located within unit cell while subelement is located within unit cell which is adjacent to unit cell and in a different column from unit cell .

In one embodiment subelements of a small sensor electrode may be located on facing lateral sides of the main traces of two large column electrodes. For example the subelement is located on the right side of the main trace of large sensor electrode while subelement is located on the left side of the main trace of the large sensor element which is facing the right side of main trace . According to this arrangement the subelements in a given routing channel that are the farthest from the edge region may share a single routing trace such as routing trace that extends to the edge region in order to reduce the width of the routing channel.

In one embodiment each of the small subelements may include a number of subtraces that are interleaved with subtraces of a large sensor electrode within a unit cell. For example the small sensor electrode includes subtraces that are interleaved with subtraces of the large sensor electrode . Similarly each of the subelements making up the small sensor electrodes and have subtraces that are interleaved with subtraces of the large sensor electrode .

In one embodiment at least a portion of each small sensor electrode is located between portions of a large sensor electrode. In other words for each small sensor electrode two interior points within a large sensor electrode may be selected so that a line segment between the interior points crosses part of the small sensor electrode. In the case of sensor electrode portions of the subtraces are located in between the subtraces of the large sensor electrode .

In one embodiment the pattern of conductive material is similar within each unit cell of the capacitive sensor array except that the pattern of conductive material in some of the unit cells is flipped. In one embodiment the pattern of conductive material within unit cells above a dividing line may be flipped relative to the pattern of conductive material within unit cells below the dividing line .

In one embodiment the dividing line may be divide the surface of the sensor array into substantially equal parts so that half of the small sensor electrodes are located on one side of the dividing line and the other half of the small sensor electrodes are located on the other side of the dividing line .

In one embodiment the small sensor electrodes on a given side of the dividing line may be connected via routing traces to conductive pads in an edge region on the same side of the dividing line . For example the small sensor electrode that is above the dividing line is connected via routing trace to a conductive pad that is in an edge region on the same side of dividing line as the small sensor electrode .

Similarly each of the small sensor electrodes below the dividing line are connected via their respective routing traces to conductive pads in the edge region which is also below the dividing line . In one embodiment the routing traces may be located within routing channels such as routing channels and . In one embodiment multiple routing traces may share a single conductive pad. For example conductive pad may be connected to two routing traces one leading to each of the two subelements of sensor electrode .

In one embodiment for each of the small sensor electrodes in the capacitive sensor array the small sensor electrode is electrically connected via one or more routing traces to a conductive pad within the nearest edge region to the small sensor electrode. In one embodiment the nearest edge region may be the nearest edge region out of a subset of edge regions. For example between edge regions and edge region is the nearest edge region to the small sensor electrode therefore the small sensor electrode is connected to conductive pads within edge region .

In one embodiment one subelement of a small sensor electrode may be located on a first lateral side of a first large sensor electrode while a second subelement of the same sensor electrode is on a lateral side of a different large sensor electrode facing the first lateral side of the first large sensor electrode. With reference to for example the subelement is on the right side of the large sensor electrode while subelement is on the left side of the large sensor electrode . The large sensor electrode is in an adjacent column of unit cells such that the left side of electrode faces the right side of sensor electrode .

In one embodiment two small sensor electrodes in adjacent unit cells may each include a subelement connected to a routing trace that extends to a conductive pad in a first edge region while a third small sensor electrode in the same column of unit cells includes a subelement connected to a routing trace that extends to a conductive pad in a second edge region. In one embodiment the second edge region is opposite from the first edge region.

For example small sensor electrode includes a subelement connected to a routing trace that extends to edge region . Small sensor electrode has a subelement in an adjacent unit cell in the same column as subelement . Subelement is connected to a routing trace that also extends to the edge region . Subelement of small sensor electrode is connected to a routing trace that extends to edge region as illustrated in . In one embodiment edge region is opposite from edge region .

In one embodiment the capacitive sensor array may include a set of large sensor electrodes and which may be used as column sensor electrodes. In one embodiment the capacitive sensor array may include a set of small sensor electrodes such as sensor electrodes each of which is smaller in area or mass for example than any of the large sensor electrodes. The small sensor electrodes may be used as row sensor electrodes. In one embodiment the large sensor electrodes and small sensor electrodes may be formed from a single layer of conductive material.

In one embodiment each of the small sensor electrodes in the same row may be sensed independently from other small sensor electrodes in the same row alternatively the small sensor electrodes in the same row may be electrically coupled and sensed together. For example the small sensor electrodes may be sensed separately from one another or they may be coupled together and treated as a single electrode by the capacitance sensor during the sensing scan.

In one embodiment the active sensing area of the capacitive sensor array includes the area of the sensor array within which the presence of a conductive object may be detected by mutual capacitance or self capacitance scanning. In one embodiment the active sensing area may be divisible into a grid of N M unit cells each corresponding to a sensing region between one of the large sensor electrodes and one of the small sensor electrodes.

In one embodiment each of the sensor electrodes and shield traces in the sensor array may be electrically connected to their own respective conductive pads such as pads located within an edge region of the sensor array . As illustrated in the shield trace and small sensor electrode are each connected to one of the conductive pads for example. In one embodiment each of the sensor electrodes may be electrically connected to their respective conductive pads by one or more routing traces. Some sensor electrodes may include for example two or more subelements each connected to a single conductive pad thus the single conductive pad may be connected to more than one routing trace. In one embodiment the edge region in which the conductive pads are located is outside the active sensing area of the capacitive sensor array.

In one embodiment the area of the capacitive sensor array may include one or more routing channels such as routing channels and . In one embodiment row sensor electrodes may include one or more subelements connected to routing traces that extend through one of the routing channels to an edge region . In one embodiment row subelements that are on one side of a dividing line may be connected to routing traces located in different routing channels than routing traces connected to subelements that are on the other side of the dividing line . For example subelements that are located below dividing line may be routed to the edge region via routing traces which are located in different routing channels than the routing traces that connect subelements above the dividing line to the edge region .

In one embodiment each unit cell contains a substantially similar pattern of conductive material forming the sensor electrodes within the unit cell. In one embodiment the pattern within a unit cell on one side of the dividing line may be reversed or flipped relative to a pattern within a unit cell on another side of the dividing line .

In one embodiment the dividing line may be located so that of the subelements of the small sensor electrodes are on one side of the dividing line and of the subelements of the small sensor electrodes are on the other side of the dividing line . In alternate embodiments the dividing line may divide the subelements according to different ratios for example the dividing line may be positioned so that half of the subelements of the small sensor electrodes are above the dividing line and half are below.

In one embodiment the position of the dividing line may be selected in order to balance the widths of the routing channels and the resistance of the small sensor elements. For example with reference to the small sensor electrodes that are above the dividing line are connected to routing traces that are longer than the routing traces of the small sensor electrodes below the dividing line . Thus the widths of each of the longer routing traces may be greater than the widths of each of the shorter routing traces to minimize the difference in resistance between the sensor electrodes on either side of the dividing line . Accordingly in one embodiment the position of dividing line may be chosen so that the routing channel may contain fewer routing traces as compared to routing channel in order to minimize the difference between the widths of the routing channels and . In one embodiment the routing channel may contain fewer routing traces as compared to routing channel in order to accommodate shield traces such as shield trace .

In one embodiment the capacitive sensor array may include one or more shield traces which may be grounded to reduce cross talk between TX and RX sensor electrodes. For example in an embodiment where the large sensor electrodes are used as TX sensor electrodes and the small sensor electrodes are used as RX sensor electrodes a shield trace may be located in between certain portions of the small sensor electrodes and the large sensor electrodes. As illustrated in the shield trace for example is located between the routing traces in routing channel and the large sensor electrodes surrounding routing channel thus reducing the cross talk between the large sensor electrodes and the routing traces.

In one embodiment the length of each of the shield traces may be less than the length of the sensor array such that the shield traces do not extend completely from one edge of the sensor array to the opposite edge. In one embodiment the length of the shield traces may depend on the position of the dividing line . For example the shield traces may extend from an edge region to the dividing line .

In the preceding descriptions of capacitive sensor arrays and the small sensor electrodes may be represented as row sensor electrodes and the large sensor electrodes may be represented as column sensor electrodes however in one embodiment the designation of small and large sensor electrodes as row or column sensor electrodes may be interchanged depending on an orientation for example of the capacitive sensor array without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

It should be noted that alternative embodiments of capacitive sensor patterns having flipped cells may vary with respect to the embodiments illustrated in . For example the number of subtraces per unit cell or per sensor electrode and or the shapes of the subtraces may differ from those of sensor arrays and . With reference to sensor array in shapes other than diamond or triangular shapes may be used in alternative embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

In one embodiment the sensor electrodes in the array may be connected to circuitry on the PCB via a connector . In one embodiment the connector may be made from conductive material on a flexible substrate. In one embodiment components of the capacitance sensing system such as the processing device may be mounted on the PCB . In one embodiment other hardware such as hardware supporting a display over which the sensor array is overlaid may also be mounted on PCB .

In one embodiment one or more of the sensor electrodes in array may be connected together for example each of the small sensor electrodes including subelements that are in the same row of unit cells may be electrically coupled together and sensed together as a single unit. In one embodiment some or all of these connections between sensor electrodes may be established by one or more switches multiplexers conductive traces or other conductive paths that may reside on or underneath the bezel on the PCB or on some other part of the sensor array assembly. In an alternative embodiment the separate sensor electrodes may be sensed separately.

In one embodiment the sensor electrodes in the array may be connected to circuitry on a printed circuit board PCB via connectors and . In one embodiment one or both of the connectors and may be made from conductive material on a flexible substrate. In one embodiment components of the capacitance sensing system such as the processing device may be mounted on the PCB . In one embodiment other hardware such as hardware supporting a display over which the sensor array is overlaid may also be mounted on PCB .

In one embodiment one or more of the sensor electrodes in array may be connected together for example each of the small sensor electrodes that are in the same row of unit cells may be electrically coupled together and sensed together as a unit. In one embodiment some or all of these connections between sensor electrodes may be established by one or more switches multiplexers conductive traces or other conductive paths that may reside on or underneath one or both of the bezels and on the PCB or on some other part of the sensor array assembly.

In the foregoing embodiments various modifications can be made for example row sensor electrodes and column sensor electrodes may be interchanged and row or column sensor electrodes may be used as either TX or RX sensor electrodes. Furthermore in some embodiments intersections between row and column sensor electrodes may be replaced with conductive bridges. For example bridges may be used to electrically connect portions of sensor electrodes when both row and column sensor electrodes are constructed from a single layer of conductive material. As described herein conductive electrodes that are electrically connected or electrically coupled may be coupled such that a relatively low resistance conductive path exists between the conductive electrodes.

Embodiments of the present invention described herein include various operations. These operations may be performed by hardware components software firmware or a combination thereof. As used herein the term coupled to may mean coupled directly or indirectly through one or more intervening components. Any of the signals provided over various buses described herein may be time multiplexed with other signals and provided over one or more common buses. Additionally the interconnection between circuit components or blocks may be shown as buses or as single signal lines. Each of the buses may alternatively be one or more single signal lines and each of the single signal lines may alternatively be buses.

Certain embodiments may be implemented as a computer program product that may include instructions stored on a computer readable medium. These instructions may be used to program a general purpose or special purpose processor to perform the described operations. A computer readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . The computer readable storage medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or another type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Additionally some embodiments may be practiced in distributed computing environments where the computer readable medium is stored on and or executed by more than one computer system. In addition the information transferred between computer systems may either be pulled or pushed across the transmission medium connecting the computer systems.

Although the operations of the method s herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operation may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

