---

title: On-screen code stabilization
abstract: Methods and systems for stabilizing an on-screen code on a display of a mobile device are described. A code is displayed on a mobile device as an on-screen code. The user holds the mobile device in front of a code scanner so that the on-screen code can be scanned. A code stabilization application on the mobile device assists in stabilizing and/or centering the on-screen code through changing its position, shape, and/or size based on data and/or measurements from sensors. The code stabilization application stabilizes the on-screen code for easy scan-ability to speed up the scanning process.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09424570&OS=09424570&RS=09424570
owner: PAYPAL, INC.
number: 09424570
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140813
---
The present invention generally relates to stabilizing an on screen code on a mobile device for scanning by a code scanner.

A user may present a code displayed on a mobile device such as a barcode or a Quick Response QR code to make a purchase from a merchant or to present an e ticket at an airport or an event. The code is scanned by a code scanner. When the scanning process takes a few moments the user may believe that it is user error in the placement of the code relative to the code scanner. The user may shift the mobile device around to adjust the code in an attempt to get the code scanned. However the code scanner can detect the code in most positions as long as it is stable. Whether the user moves the code intentionally to have it read or unintentionally due to unsteady hands movement of the code disrupts the scanning process and adds to the time it takes to complete the scan.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The present disclosure describes stabilizing and or centering a code that is displayed on a user device to facilitate scanning by a code scanner. The user device may be a mobile device such as a mobile phone smart watch or a tablet. The code displayed on the user device i.e. the on screen code is adjusted in response to motion detected by sensors in the user device. The on screen code may be a barcode such as a QR code. The on screen code can be used for example to make a payment identify a user enable a digital wallet experience at the time of payment improve payment security gain entry at an event or check in at an airport. The on screen code is placed in front of a code scanner that scans the on screen code.

The barcode is a coded pattern of graphical indicia that includes of a series of stripes and spaces of varying widths the stripes and spaces having differing light reflecting characteristics. Some of the more popular barcode symbologies include Uniform Product Code UPC typically used in retail stores sales Data Matrix typically used for labeling small electronic products Code 39 primarily used in inventory tracking and Postnet which is used for encoding zip codes for U.S. mail. Barcodes may be one dimensional 1D i.e. a single row of graphical indicia that carry information in one direction such as a UPC barcode or two dimensional 2D i.e. multiple rows of graphical indicia that carry information in two directions such as Data Matrix which includes multiple rows and columns of black and white square modules arranged in a square or rectangular pattern. Other examples of 2D barcodes include PDF417 MaxiCode Aztec barcode and the QR Code. A QR code is a matrix barcode readable by QR scanners mobile phones with a camera and smartphones. The QR code consists of modules arranged in a square pattern on a white background. The information encoded can be text a uniform resource locator URL or other data.

The systems and methods described herein stabilize an on screen code to facilitate scanning by a code scanner. An application displays a code on a mobile device as an on screen code. The user holds the display of the mobile device in front of a code scanner so that the display is facing the code scanner for scanning of the on screen code. A code stabilization application or module assists in stabilizing the on screen code through changing the position shape e.g. to a trapezoid shape and or size of the on screen code based on data and or measurements from sensors. The sensors may comprise gyroscopes accelerometers and or cameras. The code stabilization application stabilizes the on screen code for easy scan ability to speed up the scanning process.

For example when the user moves the mobile device to the right relative to the code scanner the application detects the movement and adjusts the on screen code to the left. If the user moves the mobile device towards or away from the code scanner the application adjusts the size of the on screen code. Similarly if the user tilts the mobile device relative to the code scanner the application adjusts the size and or shape of the on screen code to counter this movement.

In an embodiment the code is a payment code that is generated by a payment service provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. The payment code is associated with a user account and can be used at a retail location during checkout. The payment code can be used by the user to make a payment anywhere such as a particular retail location and to make a payment even without Internet access. In some embodiments the payment code is associated with at least one merchant.

In various embodiments a payment service provider receives identifying information from a user such as login information e.g. user name password etc. . The payment service provider then generates a payment code and transmits the payment code to the user. The user receives the payment code and the payment code is displayed on a mobile device. When the user is checking out at a merchant the payment code displayed on a mobile device is scanned by a code scanner at a point of sale POS of the merchant. The merchant transmits the payment code back to the payment service provider. The payment service provider receives the payment code along with a request for a payment from the merchant and processes the payment.

In an embodiment the payment code is a barcode such as a QR code that may be scanned at a POS of a merchant. Other machine readable codes may also be suitable. In certain embodiments the payment code can be converted into a virtual card number at the POS to pay for a purchase.

In some embodiments the user can control and set various limits on use of the payment code. For example the user can limit the price of items to be purchased using the payment code the places that the payment code can be used the times of day the payment code can be used the types of items to be purchased with the payment code etc.

In further embodiments use of the payment code facilitates identification of the user the user s order or the user s transaction at the POS. The use of the mobile application provides access to the user s location his or her device information and user credentials. Having one or more of these pieces of information can build stronger identity authentication.

For example the payment code may advantageously act as the user s identification so a user need not provide the typical forms of identification e.g. driver s license credit card etc. to prove identity when picking up an item that was previously ordered. Instead the user s mobile device is used to facilitate stronger identity authentication and improve payment security to improve the user experience.

In one embodiment a user authenticates his identity to a mobile application run by a payment service provider such as PayPal Inc. of San Jose Calif. on a mobile device. The payment service provider identifies the user generates the payment code and transmits the payment code to the user s mobile device. An application on the mobile device then displays the payment code on the mobile device as an on screen code which is scanned by a code scanner at the POS of the merchant. The payment code acts as the user s identification as the payment code is generated with a valid login session or authorization.

In various embodiments an electronic ticket for an event or transportation includes a code. For example the user may provide the code to a code scanner to gain entry at an event. In another example the user may scan the code at the airport to check in for a flight.

By having the ability to stabilize the code if needed during scanning various advantages are achieved. For example both the user and the merchant are able to more quickly finish a transaction based on the code being scanned without the scanner having to rescan the code if the device is moved. The user is spared the frustration of moving or repositioning the mobile device one or more times during the transaction. Wait times for other users may be reduced thereby providing a better experience for consumers.

As shown in system includes mobile device e.g. a smartphone one or more merchant servers or devices e.g. network server devices one or more code scanners or readers and at least one payment service provider server or device e.g. network server device in communication over a network . Network in one embodiment may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet and or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of communication networks. In another example network may comprise a wireless telecommunications network e.g. cellular phone network adapted to communicate with other communication networks such as the Internet. As such in various embodiments mobile device merchant servers or devices and payment service provider server or device may be associated with a particular link e.g. a link such as a URL Uniform Resource Locator to an IP Internet Protocol address .

Mobile device in one embodiment may be utilized by a user to interact with payment service provider server over network . For example user may conduct financial transactions e.g. account transfers with payment service provider server via mobile device . Mobile device in various embodiments may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . In various implementations mobile device may include at least one of a wireless cellular phone wearable computing device satellite phone computing tablet etc.

Mobile device in one embodiment includes a user interface application which may be utilized by user to conduct transactions e.g. shopping purchasing bidding etc. with merchant server or device or with payment service provider server over network . In one aspect purchase expenses may be directly and or automatically debited from an account related to user via user interface application .

In one implementation user interface application comprises a software program such as a graphical user interface GUI executable by a processor that is configured to interface and communicate with payment service provider server via network . In another implementation user interface application comprises a browser module that provides a network interface to browse information available over network . For example user interface application may be implemented in part as a web browser to view information available over network .

In an example user is able to access merchant websites or apps via one or more merchant servers to view and select items for purchase and user is able to purchase items from one or more merchant servers via service provider server . Accordingly in one or more embodiments user in person or remotely may conduct transactions e.g. purchase and provide payment for one or more items from one or more merchant servers via service provider server .

Mobile device in various embodiments includes a code stabilization application . Code stabilization application may be a module in another application or a separate application. Code stabilization application stabilizes an on screen code by redisplaying the code on the display of mobile device by adjusting the position shape size or a combination thereof of the on screen code. Code stabilization application may receive data and or measurements from sensors of mobile device . Code stabilization application in several embodiments is developed by a payment service provider and is downloaded to mobile device from the payment service provider website. Code stabilization application in certain embodiments generates codes on mobile device accesses data from sensors detects movement and adjusts the on screen code in response to the detected movements.

In various embodiments mobile device includes one or more sensors such as motion sensors and or cameras . Motion sensors can monitor detect and or measure movement velocity acceleration of mobile device such as translational motion translational velocity translational acceleration rotation angular velocity and angular acceleration. Motion sensors may comprise one or more gyroscopes and or one or more accelerometers. Thus motion sensors are configured to detect when mobile device has been tilted on any axis moved left or right forward or backwards and up or down by user . Motion sensors may be accessed by code stabilization application .

Cameras may be configured to capture images monitor and detect movement of objects and sense depth. A front facing camera may detect code scanner or a part of code scanner and determine the center of code scanner . The front facing camera may also detect whether mobile device is facing or turned away from the face of user . In an embodiment mobile device includes at least two front facing cameras configured to determine distance to objects. For example mobile device may include a main front facing camera and two or more depth sensing cameras to sense distance to objects.

Mobile device in various embodiments may include other applications as may be desired in one or more embodiments of the present disclosure to provide additional features available to user . In one example such other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network and or various other types of generally known programs and or software applications. In still other examples other applications may interface with user interface application for improved efficiency and convenience.

In various implementations a user profile may be created using data and information obtained from cell phone activity over network . Cell phone activity transactions may be used by payment service provider server to create at least one user profile for user based on activity from mobile device e.g. cell phone . The user profile may be updated with each financial and or information transaction e.g. payment transaction purchase transaction etc. achieved through use of mobile device . In various aspects this may include the type of transaction and or the location information from mobile device . As such the profile may be used for recognizing patterns of potential fraud setting transaction limits on the user etc.

Mobile device in one embodiment may include at least one user identifier. which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with user interface application identifiers associated with hardware of mobile device or various other appropriate identifiers. User identifier may include one or more attributes related to user such as personal information related to user e.g. one or more user names passwords photograph images biometric IDs addresses phone numbers social security number etc. and banking information and or funding sources e.g. one or more banking institutions credit card issuers user account numbers security data and information etc. . In various implementations user identifier may be passed with a user login request to payment service provider server via network and user identifier may be used by payment service provider server to associate user with a particular user account maintained by payment service provider server .

In various implementations user is able to input data and information into an input component e.g. a touchscreen a keyboard etc. of mobile device to provide user information with a transaction request such as a fund transfer request. The user information may include user identification information.

One or more merchant servers in various embodiments may be maintained by one or more business entities or in some cases by a partner of a business entity that processes transactions on behalf of business entities . Examples of businesses entities include merchant sites resource information sites utility sites real estate management sites social networking sites etc. which offer various items for purchase and payment. In some embodiments business entities may need registration of the user identity information as part of offering the items to user over network . As such each of one or more merchant servers may include a merchant database for identifying available items which may be made available to mobile device for viewing and purchase by user . In one or more embodiments user may complete a transaction such as purchasing the items via payment service provider server .

Each of the merchant servers in one embodiment may include a marketplace application which may be configured to provide information over network to user interface application of mobile device . For example user may interact with marketplace application through user interface application over network to search and view various items available for purchase in merchant database .

Each of the merchant servers in one embodiment may include at least one merchant identifier which may be included as part of the one or more items made available for purchase so that for example particular items are associated with particular merchants. In one implementation merchant identifier may include one or more attributes and or parameters related to the merchant such as business and banking information. In various embodiments user may conduct transactions e.g. searching selection monitoring purchasing and or providing payment for items with each merchant server via payment service provider server over network .

A merchant website may also communicate e.g. using merchant server with the service provider through payment service provider server over network . For example the merchant website may communicate with the payment service provider in the course of various services offered by the payment service provider to merchant website such as payment intermediary between customers of the merchant website and the merchant website itself. For example the merchant website may use an application programming interface API that allows it to offer sale of goods in which customers are allowed to make payment through the payment service provider while user may have an account with the payment service provider that allows user to use the payment service provider for making payments to merchants that allow use of authentication authorization and payment services of payment service provider as a payment intermediary. The merchant website may also have an account with the payment service provider.

Code scanner or reader may include one or more devices or systems used to read codes on mobile devices . For example code scanner may include a barcode scanner reader or a QR code scanner reader. Code scanner is typically positioned at a PUS of a merchant. Examples of suitable locations for the PUS include but are not limited to an entrance to or within an event such as a concert sporting event convention trade show movie theater theater fair etc. airline security checkpoints and boarding gates unmanned kiosks and vending machines transportation e.g. train subway bus entrances and exits etc.

Payment service provider server in one embodiment may be maintained by a transaction processing entity or an online service provider which may provide processing for financial transactions and or information transactions between user and one or more of the merchant servers . As such payment service provider server includes a service application which may be adapted to interact with mobile device and or each merchant server over network to facilitate the searching selection purchase and or payment of items by user from one or more of the merchant servers . In one example payment service provider server may be provided by PayPal Inc. eBay of San Jose Calif. USA and or one or more financial institutions or a respective intermediary that may provide multiple point of sale devices at various locations to facilitate transaction routings between merchants and for example financial institutions.

Service application in one embodiment utilizes a payment processing application to process purchases and or payments for financial transactions between user and each merchant server . In one implementation the payment processing application assists with resolving financial transactions through validation delivery and settlement. As such service application in conjunction with payment processing application settles financial transactions between user and each merchant wherein accounts may be directly and or automatically debited and or credited of monetary funds in a manner as accepted by the banking industry.

Payment service provider server in one embodiment may be configured to maintain one or more user accounts and merchant accounts in an account database each of which may include account information associated with one or more individual users e.g. user and merchants e.g. one or more merchants associated with merchant servers . For example account information may include private financial information of user and each merchant associated with one or more merchant servers such as one or more account numbers passwords credit card information banking information or other types of financial information which may be used to facilitate financial transactions between user and one or more merchants associated with the merchant servers . In various aspects the methods and systems described herein may be modified to accommodate users and or merchants that may or may not be associated with at least one existing user account and or merchant account respectively.

In one implementation user may have identity attributes stored with payment service provider server and user may have credentials to authenticate or verify identity with payment service provider server . User attributes may include personal information banking information and or funding sources. In various aspects the user attributes may be passed to payment service provider server as part of a login search selection purchase and or payment request and the user attributes may be utilized by payment service provider server to associate user with one or more particular user accounts maintained by payment service provider server .

Referring now to illustrated is a scene of mobile device displaying a code held in front of code scanner by user according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Mobile device displaying a code held by a hand of user is placed in front of a code scanning component of code scanner . Code scanning component scans the on screen code. Mobile device is implemented in a similar manner as mobile device described above.

Referring now to a flowchart of a method for stabilizing an on screen code on mobile device is illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Code generation may be triggered by the manually by the user or automatically by the system. For example the user may send a request through mobile device such as by selecting a Request Code button from a service provider app. In another example mobile device may be detected as being in a payment situation such as entering a merchant store entering a checkout line or receiving a payment request from the merchant. Codes may also accessible through mobile device such that the user can retrieve a code to be displayed.

At step user receives a code from a payment service provider or a code generating application on mobile device generates a code. In an embodiment payment service provider server generates and sends a code to mobile device . The code may be a payment code associated with a user account maintained by the payment service provider. Further the payment service provider may store user account information in account database that includes one or more accounts of user . The payment code may be linked to the account such that when the payment code is presented to a merchant the account to be used for the transaction is designated. In another embodiment a user receives an e ticket that includes the code. For example user may receive an e ticket from an airline for a flight that includes a barcode that can be scanned during check in and or boarding process.

In a further embodiment user uses a code generating application on the mobile device to generate a code. The code generating application may be an application provided by a payment service provider or by a third party service provider. When the code is generated by an application of the payment service provider and the code is transmitted to payment service provider server payment service provider server is able to identify a user account associated with the code and or authenticate the code for example based on an algorithm used for generating the code implemented by the payment service provider.

In an embodiment user registers with a payment service provider. Registration may include signing up for the service and agreeing to any terms required by the payment service provider such as through a user device. The user device may be a mobile computing device such as a smart phone a PC or a computing tablet. Registration may be done completely through the user device partially through the user device or without using the user device such as through a phone call or in person visit to a representative of the payment service provider.

User may be requested to provide specific information for registration such as but not limited to a name address phone number email address picture a user name for the account and a password or PIN for the account. The type of information may depend on whether the user already has an account with the payment service provider. Requested information may be entered through the user device or other means including voice or manual key entry. Once all the requested information is received and confirmed the payment service provider may create an account for user .

In some embodiments user provides identifying data e.g. user name password etc. before user can use the code. For example user may be required to provide identifying data before receiving the code or generating the code on mobile device . In another example user may be required to provide identifying data when the code is to be presented on the display of mobile device for use.

The code in one embodiment is randomly generated such as a random barcode. In some exemplary embodiments the payment code may be a random one time use code that is generated by the payment service provider executing a random character generation program. The payment code may be sent to mobile device of user in any suitable way including by email text push notification or by download from payment service provider server through an application or a web browser. In certain embodiments limitations or restrictions may be associated with the code such as amount time of use type of purchase etc.

At step an application on the mobile device e.g. code generating application or code stabilization application presents the code on a display of mobile device as an on screen code. In an embodiment before or after the code is generated user may browse and select items that he or she wishes to purchase at a merchant. When user is ready to pay for the purchase user uses the application to display the on screen code on mobile device and places the on screen code in front of code scanner reader at the POS of the merchant.

At step code stabilization application which may be a part of the application used to display the on screen code or a separate application accesses sensors of mobile device . In an embodiment code stabilization application accesses motion sensors comprising a gyroscope and or an accelerometer. In some embodiments code stabilization application accesses one or more cameras of mobile device . In other embodiments code stabilization application accesses both motion sensors and cameras . Code stabilization application receives data and or measurements from sensors . To conserve power sensors may only be activated when a possible code scan is determined such as the code being displayed on mobile device and or cameras on mobile device detecting code scanner reader facing the display of mobile device .

At step code stabilization application detects movements using sensors . In certain embodiments code stabilization application detects movements by accessing motion sensors . The code stabilization application can then compute movements of mobile device based on data and or measurements received from motion sensors .

In other embodiments code stabilization application receives data from a front facing camera of the mobile device. The front facing camera detects code scanner reader or one or more parts of code scanner reader and determines movement relative to code scanner reader .

At step code stabilization application which can use various known image stabilization methods adjusts the on screen code in response to the movements that are detected by sensors . In an embodiment the on screen code is adjusted by redisplaying the on screen code on the display at an adjusted position adjusted shape and or adjusted size such that the on screen code is stable relative to code scanner reader . The on screen code is adjusted such that the code remains the same from the perspective of code scanner reader .

In some embodiments code stabilization application uses data from the front facing camera to adjust the on screen code. The on screen code is adjusted such that the center of the on screen code is aligned with the center of code scanner reader .

In various embodiments code stabilization application starts adjusting the on screen code when the display is facing code scanner . Code stabilization application determines or approximates when the on screen code has been turned to face code scanner . Code stabilization application bases the timing of when to start adjusting on such determination or approximation. In one embodiment code stabilization application starts adjusting the on screen code a specific length of time after the on screen code is displayed on mobile device . The on screen code is displayed then there is a delay for a predetermined time period e.g. 2 3 seconds to give user time to turn mobile device towards code scanner and then code stabilization application starts to adjust the on screen code.

In another embodiment code stabilization application starts adjusting the on screen code when code stabilization application determines through motion sensors that user has turned mobile device . Code stabilization application may be programmed to determine that when user rotates mobile device to one of several preset angles the on screen code has been turned to face code scanner . The predetermined angles can include the various angles that correspond to a variety of ways that code scanner may be set up. Code scanner may be directly facing user so that mobile device has to be turned by about 180 degrees to face code scanner . Code scanner may be facing sideways such that mobile device has to be turned by about 90 degrees. For example when user uses code stabilization application to display the on screen code and code stabilization application detects a rotation of 90 degrees code stabilization application determines that the mobile device has been turned to face code scanner and accordingly starts to adjust the on screen code.

In some embodiments code stabilization application starts adjusting the on screen code based on camera of mobile device . For example the front facing camera may be configured to determine whether it is facing a face of user . Code stabilization application may access the front facing camera and only start adjusting the on screen code when the front facing camera has been turned away from the face i.e. the face is no longer detected by the front facing camera. In another example the front facing camera may be configured to detect code scanner or one or more parts of code scanner such as code scanning component . Code stabilization application may access the front facing camera and start adjusting the on screen code when the front facing camera detects code scanner or the one or more parts of code scanner so that code stabilization application only adjusts the on screen code while it is facing code scanner to be scanned.

In an embodiment code stabilization application adjusts the on screen code for a predetermined time period. For example code stabilization application may adjust the on screen code for a time period that it usually takes for a scan to occur e.g. 5 15 seconds or a longer time period e.g. 1 2 minutes .

In another embodiment code stabilization application adjusts the on screen code for a predetermined time period then resets and again starts adjusting the on screen code. When code scanner is not able to scan the on screen code at a first stabilized position the on screen code is stabilized at a second stabilized position after a predetermined time period. The predetermined time period may be the average time it takes for a scan to occur when the on screen code is positioned in a correct orientation. For example if code stabilization application is stabilizing the on screen code at a position that is out of scanning range by providing a restart of the adjustment after a predetermined time period the on screen code can be re centered on mobile device and stabilized at a new position. Thus code stabilization application has a self correcting mechanism.

At step code scanner reads the on screen code. For example code scanner reads the on screen code by detecting light emitted by the display of mobile device . In another example code scanner emits a source light which bounces off the display of the mobile device and detects the light that is bounced back. In an embodiment code scanner is located at a POS of a merchant.

At step when the on screen code is being used to make a purchase at a merchant user authorizes a payment from the user account to the merchant based on the scan of the on screen code by code scanner at the POS. In an embodiment the code is transmitted from code scanner to merchant server or device . The payment service provider receives the code and a request for payment from merchant server or device . Payment service provider server verifies the code as the code associated with the user account and may also verify any limitations or restrictions associated with the code. Payment service provider server approves and processes the payment from the user account to the merchant. After processing payment service provider server may then transmit a notification to user and or merchant server or device .

Now referring to on screen codes that are adjusted in response to movement of a mobile device are illustrated according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. illustrates adjusting of the code image on mobile device in response to translational motion including horizontal and vertical movements. When mobile device is moved in a direction the on screen code that was displayed in a first location is redisplayed at a second location in response to the movement. Mobile device displays the on screen code at first location before mobile device is moved. Code stabilization application uses sensors comprising accelerometers to detect that mobile device is being moved in direction and determines a magnitude of translational motion direction of movement velocity of movement and acceleration of movement. In response to the movement code stabilization application dynamically redisplays the on screen code in second position . With respect to mobile device the position of the on screen code has been adjusted in a direction that is opposite the direction of movement of mobile device . Code stabilization application may calculate second position based on the magnitude of translational motion the direction of movement the velocity of movement and or the acceleration of movement.

In certain embodiments for further accuracy code stabilization application determines and or measures a distance to code scanner and calculates second shape further based on the distance to code scanner . In an embodiment code stabilization application accesses camera comprising a front facing camera to determine distance. For example code stabilization application may determine distance based on a standard size of code scanner and or code scanning component . In another example code stabilization application may determine distance based on a reference marker on code scanner . The reference marker may have a standard size such that it can be used for distance determinations. In another embodiment code stabilization application accesses cameras comprising at least two front facing cameras configured to sense depth to determine distance to code scanner .

In certain embodiments for further accuracy code stabilization application determines distance to code scanner and calculates second size further based on distance to code scanner . In an embodiment code stabilization application uses camera comprising a front facing camera to determine distance based on a standard size of code scanner and or code scanning component or based on a reference marker on code scanner . In another embodiment code stabilization application accesses cameras comprising at least two front facing cameras configured to sense depth to determine distance to code scanner .

When the movement of mobile device includes more than one of translational motion rotation and movement forwards or backwards code stabilization application performs adjustments comprising a combination of position adjustments shape adjustments and or size adjustments discussed above.

Referring now to a block diagram of a system is illustrated suitable for implementing embodiments of the present disclosure including mobile device one or more merchant servers or devices and payment service provider server or device . System such as part of a cell phone a tablet a personal computer and or a network server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information which interconnects subsystems and components including one or more of a processing component e.g. processor micro controller digital signal processor DSP etc. a system memory component e.g. RAM a static storage component e.g. ROM a network interface component a display component or alternatively an interface to an external display an input component e.g. keypad or keyboard a cursor control component e.g. a mouse pad and a sensor component e.g. gyroscope accelerometer and or cameras . In accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure system performs specific operations by processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory component . Such instructions may be read into system memory component from another computer readable medium such as static storage component . These may include instructions to present an on screen code on a display of a mobile device access measurements on one or more sensors of the mobile device detect movements of the mobile device based on the measurements and adjust the on screen code to counteract movements based on the measurements etc. In other embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation of one or more embodiments of the disclosure.

Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . Memory may be used to store visual representations of the different options for searching auto synchronizing making payments or conducting financial transactions. In one example transmission media may take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications. Some common forms of computer readable media include for example RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read.

In various embodiments of the disclosure execution of instruction sequences to practice the disclosure may be performed by system . In various other embodiments a plurality of systems coupled by communication link e.g. network of LAN WLAN PTSN or various other wired or wireless networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the disclosure in coordination with one another. Computer system may transmit and receive messages data information and instructions including one or more programs i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as received and or stored in disk drive component or some other non volatile storage component for execution.

In view of the present disclosure it will be appreciated that various methods and systems have been described according to one or more embodiments for stabilizing an on screen code on a display of a mobile device.

Although various components and steps have been described herein as being associated with user device merchant server and payment service provider server of it is contemplated that the various aspects of such servers illustrated in may be distributed among a plurality of servers devices and or other entities.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The various features and steps described herein may be implemented as systems comprising one or more memories storing various information described herein and one or more processors coupled to the one or more memories and a network wherein the one or more processors are operable to perform steps as described herein as non transitory machine readable medium comprising a plurality of machine readable instructions which when executed by one or more processors are adapted to cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising steps described herein and methods performed by one or more devices such as a hardware processor user device server and other devices described herein.

