---

title: Content manipulation using swipe gesture recognition technology
abstract: A method of manipulation of content provided by a hosting server using swipe gesture recognition on a user device having a touch input display. The method includes storing the content, combined with a swipe gesture recognition module to form a content package, on the hosting server. The swipe gesture recognition module is associated with at least one displayable content element of the content. The method further includes receiving, at the hosting server, a request for the content package from the user device and transmitting the content package from the hosting server to the user device for display by an application running on the user device. A defined action is applied to the at least one displayable content element if it is determined that a swipe gesture has occurred on the at least one displayable content element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09218120&OS=09218120&RS=09218120
owner: SoMo Audience Corp.
number: 09218120
owner_city: Summit
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140620
---
This is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 932 898 filed Jul. 1 2013 which claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 730 899 filed Nov. 28 2012 entitled CONTENT MANIPULATION USING SWIPE GESTURE RECOGNITION TECHNOLOGY . The entire content of all of these applications is incorporated herein by reference.

The disclosed embodiments are directed to a content manipulation using swipe gesture recognition technology. More specifically the disclosed embodiments are directed to systems and methods for manipulation of Internet based content provided by a hosting server using swipe gesture recognition technology on a user device.

Touchscreen based user computing devices such as smartphones tablets e readers touch enabled laptops and touch enabled desktop computers are commonly used to request content from servers via the Internet. Such content may include an advertisement or other type of display window which is overlaid on the displayed content until a particular portion of the advertisement is touched by the user. The portion which must be touched to close the advertisement may be a small X in a corner of the advertisement.

On relatively small screens particularly smartphone screens it is often difficult for the user to accurately touch the designated portion of the screen to close the advertisement. This may result in the user unintentionally touching an active portion of the advertisement instead of the close button which may in turn result in an undesired activation of an animation or even an undesired navigation to a different webpage. This can be a very frustrating and annoying experience for the user.

Such undesired activations of an advertiser s webpage can increase the advertiser s costs because the advertisement may be paid for based on a particular cost per click CPC . Therefore an advertiser purchasing advertisements on mobile devices on a CPC basis may find that they are getting a very high click through rate CTR but a low return on investment ROI due to accidental click throughs. This may annoy current and potential customers and may result in a negative brand perception which is a significant concern for large brands.

The disclosed embodiments provide a system a method and processor instructions for implementing swipe gesture recognition technology to manipulate Internet based content provided by a hosting server to a user device.

In the disclosed system and method a user may have a computing device such as for example a mobile device. The mobile device could be e.g. a mobile phone a tablet a household appliance which is running an embedded mobile piece of software such as mobile browser. The browser may make a request for a piece of content. This content is typically hosted on a web page and is accessed via the Internet. In such a case a web page is actually making a request from the device to a server that hosts the content. The content may include an advertisement and the behaviors that apply to that advertisement. When the server receives a content request it provides a package of the content the advertisement and certain related information such swipe gesture behaviors and technology packages that are needed to apply this related information to the requested content. Different types of advertisements may be bundled in different ways and there may be different elements of the swipe gesture recognition technology as it gets assembled specifically with a particular piece of content. Once those decisions are made the server sends the bundle which contains at least the swipe gesture recognition technology pieces and the advertisement.

The advertisement may come from a server other than the content server i.e. the hosting server . The content server may not have access to the advertisement itself. Rather the content server may just receive enough information about the advertisement to allow the content server to determine how the swipe gesture recognition technology will be applied to the advertisement on the user s device.

In certain embodiments the information relating to the advertisement which is received by the content server may be an identifier of the particular content package that it is looking to apply the swipe technology e.g. a uniform resource locator URL . The information may also include additional context data that would indicate how the advertisement is to be displayed on the user device e.g. whether the advertisement is full screen or a window bar at the bottom of the page. The information received by the content server may include particular details of the type of presentation that is desired by the advertiser and how the advertisement is meant to react to detected swipe gestures. Alternatively the advertiser may want only an indication that a swipe has occurred and may handle the response to the swipe in the software operating on the user device.

The information received by the content server relating to the advertisement provides a context in which the advertisement is to be displayed on the user device. The information describes the particular behaviors which are necessary from the swipe gesture recognition technology whether the swipe technology needs to include presentation components and if so which presentation components are necessary.

Once the package containing the content advertising information and swipe gesture recognition technology e.g. in the form of a module of code is assembled it is delivered to the user device. The package may be for example in the form of client type script and this script makes decisions based on the information that is available at the user device level. Once the swipe gesture recognition technology is on the user device it already knows where the advertising content is located and details regarding how the presentation is to be displayed on the user device. The display behavior is thus based on the package. Among other things the swipe gesture recognition technology crawls through parts of the content page and finds the advertisement that it is meant to present control. If the package needs to apply presentation components it will do so that at this point. The swipe technology will also determine where it needs to start listening for the user s gestures in order to interpret them and decide whether the user meant to perform a swipe gesture or whether the user meant to perform some other type of operation such as a click drag or other gesture.

After the preparation described above has been done and all of the related decisions have been made then the swipe gesture recognition technology is in a passive listening mode in which it waits for the user to touch the screen of the user device. Once the user touches the screen if for example the touch is within the portions of the screen to which swipe gesture behavior is to be applied then the system will attempt to interpret whether the touching should be deemed to be a swipe gesture.

Thus when the user touches the screen the swipe gesture recognition technology wakes up and starts trying to figure out what the user s intent is with respect to the touching action. The technology does this by applying behavioral analysis to the way the user s fingers move e.g. how many fingers are in place in which direction are they moving for what length of time have they been moving and various other criteria. After the user touches the screen the swipe technology records the gestures and the interaction that the user has with the screen. Once the user removes his finger from the screen then the swipe technology stops collecting the touch data and the analysis it has been doing in the background and starts to make decisions based on the touch data e.g. touch location and time data.

The swipe gesture recognition technology analyzes the touching actions which the user performs with his finger on the screen and determines whether these actions constitute a swipe gesture of the sort the system is configured to look for and react to. If the system determines that the touching actions do not amount to the swipe gesture it is seeking then the system may go back into a passive listening mode in which it awaits further touching actions.

If the swipe gesture recognition technology detects the particular swipe gestures for which it is listening then it will take different actions depending on the particular nature of the package installed on the user device. In a general case if the system detects a bona fide swipe gesture then it will signal this to any application or entity which happens to be listening to it. In certain embodiments the swipe gesture recognition technology may also implement the user interface on the user device. In such a case the system takes specific actions upon detection of the swipe gesture such as for example making an overlaid displayable content element e.g. an advertisement disappear which may be implemented by having the advertisement slide off the screen in an animated fashion. In embodiments in which the package contains the swipe gesture recognition technology without a display handling portion then the portion of the package which asked for the swipe gesture recognition to be applied e.g. a portion coded by an entity responsible for the advertising content is then responsible for taking the appropriate actions based on a received indication that a swipe has occurred.

The disclosed embodiments provide systems and methods for listening to touch screen gestures determining whether a detected gesture is appropriate and then making sure that the system alerts the applications which need to know so that for example an application can apply some type of action to a displayed advertisement. The application may for example close an overlaid advertisement swipe through the advertisement to a different site identified by the advertisement or cause the advertisement to initiate an animation or other executable element. For example if the advertisement is for a soft drink then the swipe gesture may cause an animation to execute which shows the beverage being poured into a glass. Thus one aspect of the disclosed embodiments is the ability to process all of the touchscreen data and to interpret how to perform user interaction.

In certain embodiments after detection of the user touching the screen the system starts listening for a swipe gesture. The system may determine whether the touch was on a defined area e.g. on an advertisement and may also determine whether the system is responsible for reacting to the swipe gesture or merely reporting it. If the touch was not on the advertisement the system may stop listening and wait for the next detected touch. If the touch was on the advertisement then the system will capture touch data e.g. location and time until the user stops touching the screen. At that point the system determines whether the pattern of the user s interaction should be recognized as a swipe gesture. If not the system goes back into a dormant state and waits for the next touch to occur. If it is determined for example that the gesture was long enough was in the proper direction did not deviate from its axis by too much and had the proper magnitude then the gesture would be deemed to be a bona fide swipe gesture. Based upon this determination certain applications may be alerted and or certain actions may be taken. Depending on the type of package that was delivered to the user device from the hosting server the action taken might be the hiding of the advertisement or might be only the alerting of applications and then waiting for the next touch event.

In certain embodiments swipe gesture recognition technology is attached to an advertisement for example and the resulting package is delivered to a user device. The package may include the content provider s i.e. the entity responsible for the advertising content script components as part of its content. When the content provider s script is executed on the user s device the application or other entity using it has set up certain information to let the script know its context. There may be for example an element called ABCD which is the advertisement to which the swipe gesture recognition technology is to be attached. Inside element ABCD there may be a sub element which has arrows or other symbols to indicate to the user that a swipe gesture is needed and that identify the element as the specific area that the system should monitor for swipe gestures. The specific area may turn a different color or provide some other sort of indication if the user touches the area instead of swiping the area. Certain embodiments are configured to detect swipe gestures in four different directions. The system will make sure that the swipe gesture is going left right up or down. A diagonal swipe on the other hand would not be recognized.

The package in question for the core swipe gesture recognition technology may be a an HTML file having a combination of e.g. text image and video content with a script block e.g. JavaScript embedded therein to act as an application programming interface API . The swipe gesture behaviors may be defined in an external JavaScript library which is referenced by the advertising content using a standard tag with an src attribute which identifies the external library . The behaviors are applied to any HTML content by a block of script in the content which instructs the swipe library regarding to which parts of the page they should attach themselves which options should be used for swipe gesture detection and what should be done if a swipe gesture is detected.

In the case of a swipe advertisement which is configured to provide the user experience as well the process works the same. The server hosting the advertising content may return a block of HTML content which contains the swipe gesture recognition user experience. The combination of this HTML content and the advertisement content and requests and configures the swipe gesture behaviors in a manner similar to that discussed above i.e. similar to the case in which the swipe advertisement is not configured to provide the user experience itself . Each of these user experience providing swipe advertisements may be a previously assembled and static block of HTML code rather than something that reacts dynamically on an incoming request.

In certain embodiments content e.g. a web page may have items across which it would like to track swipe gestures. It will make a request to the swipe script to be notified anytime the user performs a swipe gesture on the particular area. As the user is touching the screen the swipe gesture recognition technology is in the background making decisions on the touch patterns to determine whether the user intended to make a swipe gesture. When a swipe gesture is detected the system alerts any entity e.g. an application or webpage HTML code which has requested to be notified. In some embodiments the entity requesting notification may be a third party which is just using the detected behaviors themselves. In some embodiments the entity requesting notification is going to be a swipe advertisement package which provides some behavior support and user interface UI support for a third party applications.

In certain embodiments all entities may be notified when a swipe gesture is detected. If a particular entity is one which has registered with the system and requested a comprehensive package then the system will take certain actions in response to a detected swipe gesture such as for example closing or clicking through an advertisement. The system may perform whatever action is necessary upon detection of a swipe gesture and then tear down the listeners i.e. touch detection monitors because they are no longer necessary. This is done to avoid draining the user device or slowing down a session.

In other embodiments the system may take the appropriate actions and continue to listen for swipe gestures. For example there may be advertisements in which the swipe gesture is used to initiate an animation such as an advertisement for a soft drink in which the user swipes across a soda bottle and the animation then shows the soft drink being poured out into a glass and releasing bubbles. The listeners may be left in place after the animation is initiated so that user can initiate the animation repeatedly.

In one aspect the disclosed invention provides a method for manipulation of content provided by a hosting server using swipe gesture recognition on a user device having a touch input display. The method includes storing the content combined with a swipe gesture recognition module to form a content package on the hosting server wherein the swipe gesture recognition module is associated with at least one displayable content element of the content. The method further includes receiving at the hosting server a request for the content package from the user device and transmitting the content package from the hosting server to the user device for display by an application running on the user device.

Further in regard to this aspect of the disclosed invention the swipe gesture recognition module is configured to perform swipe gesture recognition when the at least one displayable content element is displayed on the user device. The swipe gesture recognition includes receiving touch input data from the touch input display of the user device. The swipe gesture recognition further includes accessing using the swipe gesture recognition module a swipe gesture determination module stored on the hosting server or a second server to analyze the touch input data to determine whether a swipe gesture has occurred on the at least one displayable content element. The swipe gesture recognition further includes applying a defined action to the at least one displayable content element if it is determined that a swipe gesture has occurred on the at least one displayable content element.

The user device may be any type of user computing device such as for example a mobile device e.g. smartphone tablet etc. or a personal computer or laptop with a touchscreen or trackpad type element which allows a user to make swipe gestures. The user device initiates a content request to a hosting server e.g. via the Internet. The content request may be for example in the form of a uniform resource locator URL directed to a particular webpage.

The hosting server upon receiving the content request prepares the requested content for transmission to the user device. The preparation of the content includes conventional aspects such as the composition of a webpage using hypertext markup language HTML and plug ins e.g. scripts or other executable elements. The prepared content may also include advertising content which may include content retrieved from other servers. The preparation of the content also includes the embedding of a swipe technology configuration which establishes how the content will react to swipe gestures performed on the user device as explained in further detail below. The content is then transmitted to the user device in the form of a content response .

The user device receives the content response sent by the hosting server and attaches the swipe technology to an element of the content such as for example an advertisement which overlays the content when it is displayed on the user device. The user device displays the content e.g. on a touch screen and awaits detection of a user touching the screen . Once a touch is detected the user device begins to perform gesture input i.e. touch data input and accumulation which provides the basis for ascertaining whether the detected touch is in fact a swipe gesture by the user.

After the user stops touching the screen the user device begins to interpret the detected gestures and apply the resulting actions . For example if the touching of the screen is interpreted as a bona fide swipe gesture then the overlaid advertising content may be removed from the display e.g. the advertisement may be swept off of the content on which it is overlaid. Various other types of action may result from the swipe gesture. For example the swipe gesture may initiate an animation or other executable aspect of the displayed content. After the resulting action the user may then interact with the underlying i.e. non swipe content . If on the other hand the touching of the screen is not interpreted as a bona fide swipe gesture then the user device will again await a user touching the screen .

As part of the gesture input the user device determines whether the touch was on the advertisement . In other words it is determined whether the touch is within a defined start element e.g. within an area defined by an advertisement window or other displayed graphical element. If so then the user device continuously captures data regarding the screen touch e.g. location and time data until the user stops touching the screen. If on the other hand the touch is not determined to be on the advertisement then the swipe gesture recognition is stopped and the next user touch is awaited.

After the swipe gesture is completed i.e. after the user stops touching the device then an analysis is performed to determine whether the detected gesture is a bona fide swipe gesture. The analysis as discussed in further detail below involves the application of certain criteria to the touch data e.g. location and time data collected during the swipe detection. If it is determined that the touch data i.e. touch pattern meets the applied criteria then a signal is output to various applications which are listening for a swipe . If on the other hand the swipe gesture is not recognized as a swipe gesture then the user device awaits the next touch .

If a bona fide swipe gesture is detected then a defined action which is registered with the swipe technology attached to the advertisement is performed . For example the registered action may be to close an overlaid advertisement window. The registered action may also involve the initiation of an animation or other executable element. The registered action may be implemented using various forms of software code such as for example HTML based scripts.

In certain embodiments the detection of a swipe gesture may be signaled to listening applications but any further action may be taken by the applications themselves rather than by the swipe technology attached to the advertisement. For example an advertisement may be part of displayed content which includes an executable element e.g. a module written in Adobe Flash and this element may handle the operation of removing the overlaid advertisement when the swipe gesture is signaled. In such a case after the listeners are signaled that a swipe has occurred then the attached swipe technology awaits the next touch instead of performing an action.

If an action is applied by the attached swipe technology following the detection of a swipe then a step may be performed in which the swipe technology is detached from the advertisement and stops its swipe detection functions or alternatively the swipe technology may continue swipe detection and await the next touch .

The first criteria applied to the touch data may be a determination of whether multiple fingers were used to touch the screen . This is followed by a determination of whether multiple finger touches are allowed for swipe detection which is a parameter which may be set based on defined preferences e.g. preferences set by the content provider. If multiple finger touches are not permitted in the particular configuration in question the process then detaches the touch handlers and timers and awaits the next touch start event.

If multiple finger swipe gestures are allowed then the process determines whether there is a defined starting element such as for example an overlaid advertisement having a defined area e.g. a displayed window . If so then the process determines whether the touch began within the boundaries of the starting element . If the touch began on the starting element or if a starting element is not configured then the process initiates a touch move event and a touch end event listener which are routines which detect the movement of a finger or fingers touching the screen and the end of the touching. These actions may be signaled by the conventional touch screen detection system of the user device. Alternatively the touch move event may be detected based on processing of underlying touch location and time data.

After a touch start event is detected and the touch move and touch end listeners are attached then a timer is initiated. If the elapsed time exceeds a determined time limit without a touch move event being detected then the touch detection handlers and timers may be detached and the process will await the next touch.

If on the other hand a touch move event is detected before the time limit is exceeded then a number of criteria are applied to the touch move data as described in the following paragraphs.

The process determines whether any defined elements were touched during the touch move event . For example a window defining an overlaid advertisement may be defined as a target element. The process then determines whether an element touched during the movement is a target element . If the touched element is not a target element then the process may detach the touch handlers and timers depending upon a parameter which defines whether the touch i.e. the swipe gesture is required to remain on a target element . If on the other hand the touched element is a target element then there is no need for further processing in this branch of the process.

The process computes a direction of the touch movement based on the location data and in particular the last touch move data. The process then determines whether the computed direction is consistent with prior touch move data . In other words the process determines whether the swipe gesture is continuing in a single direction. The extent to which the movement is allowed to vary from a straight line or a particular direction e.g. horizontally across the screen may be established by setting parameters to desired values e.g. based on preferences of the content provider or user. It should be noted that the direction criteria applied at this point in the process relates to a set of touch move data with respect to a preceding set of touch move data. It is used to filter out movements with directional changes from one data set to the next e.g. one touch location to the next which are too significant to allow the processing of the particular movement to continue. A further set of criteria may be applied to the swipe gesture as a whole as discussed below.

The process also determines the distance from the last touch move data and can compute the speed of the movement based on the computed distance . This allows various parameters to be applied such as for example parameters which filter out swipe motions which are deemed to be too slow or too fast to be bona fide swipe gestures. Such parameters as with all of the parameters discussed herein may be set in advance based on preferences of a content provider user or system designer or any combination thereof.

After the application of the various criteria discussed above to the touch move data the touch move data is recorded . More specifically the touch move data which is recorded may be a screen location along which the swipe gesture is being made by the user. The recording of the touch move data as discussed above is subject to the filtering by the applied criteria. This recording process continues as the user performs the swipe gesture until a touch end event is received which means that the user has removed the user s finger or fingers from the touch screen.

After the touch end event is received the process may determine whether an ending element was configured which means that a particular element has been defined as an element upon which the swipe gesture must end . For example if the swipe gesture is being made close an overlaid advertisement then a parameter may be set which requires the entire swipe to be within the area e.g. a displayed window of the advertisement. If the touch end is not on the defined ending element then the swipe gesture recognition process may terminate i.e. the touch handlers and timers may be detached and the next touch will be awaited .

After the ending element criteria are applied the touch move data i.e. the data relating to most or all of the swipe gesture are then interpreted to determine whether the swipe gesture should be deemed bona fide. These criteria may include a determination of whether the swipe gesture was performed within a defined time limit . There may also be a determination of whether there are too many touch locations outside of the defined target element . There may be a determination of whether the swipe gesture covers a defined minimum distance e.g. whether the swipe gesture was long enough relative to the displayed content .

The swipe gesture criteria may also include a determination of whether swipe gesture was performed in a defined allowed direction e.g. horizontally across the screen. The criteria may also include a determination of whether the line of movement is close enough to a straight line to qualify as a bona fide swipe.

If the swipe gesture data meet all of the applied criteria then the swipe gesture is recognized and the listener applications are signaled that a swipe gesture has occurred .

The swipe gesture recognition technology or swipe technology for implementing the algorithms discussed above includes a set of behaviors which may be applied in a stand alone configuration as well as bundled as part of a swipe ad or swipe content package. The term behaviors refers to the manner in which the user interface detects and responds to swipe gestures and other inputs initiated by the user via the user interface input mechanism e.g. a touch screen as implemented in object oriented software.

In the stand alone swipe technology configuration behaviors are exposed i.e. made available to a programmer through a script e.g. JavaScript application programming interface API . This allows the behaviors to be configured to interact with any elements of a web page such as for example overlaid or pop up images to be displayed. The programmer may incorporate these behavioral elements into the code which is configured to present the content to the user. In such a case the programmer will also include code e.g. scripts to handle the various types of detected behavior which can be received via the API.

The API is implemented via a set of JavaScript objects which are incorporated into the HTML code used to present content on the user device. The API also includes tags which reference external JavaScript files which may reside on the hosting server and or on a controlled public content delivery network CDN . The external files implement inter alia the swipe gesture recognition algorithms discussed above in order to provide swipe gesture detection information via the JavaScript objects.

In the bundled configuration both the behavioral elements and the detected behavior handling are bundled as part of swipe ad or swipe content package. In this configuration the swipe ad package may be a modular system which includes tags for accessing external script files that define behaviors and actions to be taken in response to detected behaviors. Other functions may also be provided by the external files such as for example functions relating to the manner in which the content is presented on the user device.

The bundled functions provided by the swipe ad or swipe content package allow the programmer creating the content to work primarily in HTML while using JavaScript objects and external JavaScript references to present the content to the user with swipe gesture functionality. For example content such as an advertisement may be included in an HTML file by using HTML tags e.g. an anchor tag around an image tag . This tagged content may then be accessed by the swipe ad package to be displayed with swipe gesture functionality.

The JavaScript objects discussed below support the swipe gesture recognition technology behaviors by providing named sets of well known i.e. enumerated values in logical groupings. The members of these objects may be referenced for use as values when interacting with the swipe gesture behavior API functions.

The following object provides enumerated values which define a degree to which a detected gesture must have a linear trajectory in order to be deemed a proper swipe gesture 

The following object provides well known values which define a direction in which a detected gesture must be oriented in order to be deemed a proper swipe gesture 

Swipe gesture detection functionality is exposed in the API in the form of two functions which work in concert to allow addition and removal of observers for the swipe gesture on a given page element e.g. an overlaid or pop up image. When adding the swipe gesture observer a set of options may be specified which allow control and fine tuning of the detection algorithm.

An object that represents the unique handle assigned to the swipe observer and the set of options being applied to gesture detection. This object must be passed to the removeSwipeObserver function in order to properly stop observing swipe gestures.

The following is a restatement of the object definitions given above in the form of a JavaScript interface definition or interface contact which defines the structure for using the JavaScript objects. The definition includes enumerations of certain values to be used as arguments of the objects e.g. for line detection and direction.

The following is an example of a swipe content unit e.g. an advertisement unit being included in an HTML page 

Although example embodiments have been shown and described in this specification and figures it would be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes may be made to the illustrated and or described example embodiments without departing from their principles and spirit.

