---

title: Pull printing method, apparatus and system
abstract: A pull printing method, apparatus and system are provided. The pull printing system includes a mobile terminal, a client that discovers the mobile terminal by using a phone number according to a print command of a user and transmits rendered print job data to the mobile terminal, and an image forming apparatus that, when connected to the mobile terminal, receives the print job data from the mobile terminal and performs printing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09612777&OS=09612777&RS=09612777
owner: SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO., LTD.
number: 09612777
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20140124
---
This application is related to and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 834 136 filed on Jun. 12 2013 in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and Korean Patent Application No. 10 2013 0083583 filed on Jul. 16 2013 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to a method and apparatus for pull printing print job data of a client by using a mobile terminal.

A pull printing system includes a multifunction printer MFP a client and a server. Print job data generated by the client may be stored in the server and the MFP connected to the server to read the print job data stored in the server and perform printing. As such a technology used by the MFP to pull the print job data from the server and perform printing is known as pull printing. In a pull printing system many users may share the print job data stored in the server and may output or re output the print job data as desired.

Since a personal computer PC that may function as the server may need to be separately installed maintained and managed to establish the related art pull printing system it is difficult in terms of convenience and costs for small or medium sized offices to install and operate a general printing system.

Since a user may need to authenticate discover and select the print job data in order to pull the print job data stored in the server to the MFP it is complex and difficult for the user to manipulate the MFP. For example when the related art pull printing system includes a plurality of MFPs and an MFP manipulated by the user in order to pull the print job data breaks down the user has to manipulate another MFP in order to pull the print job data from the another MFP.

Moreover since the MFP may need to be connected to and registered in the server through a network in order to pull the print job data from the server it is difficult to output the print job data when an MFP outside the network needs to be used.

Additional aspects and or advantages will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will be apparent from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a server less pull printing method and apparatus both using a mobile terminal are provided. According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a pull printing system is provided that overcomes network constraints increases a degree of use and improves the convenience of a user who manipulates an image forming apparatus.

According to an aspect of the present invention a method is provided of transmitting print job data of a client for pull printing the method including providing a graphical user interface GUI for print setup in response to a print command enabling a mobile terminal to be selected from among at least one output device that may be selected on the GUI discovering the mobile terminal by using identification information of the mobile terminal and transmitting the print job data based on a discovery result wherein the method is performed by the client.

According to an aspect of the present invention a pull printing method is provided using a mobile terminal the pull printing method including receiving print job data of a client through a mobile server embedded in the mobile terminal storing the print job data in a data area of the mobile server and when connection between the mobile terminal and an image forming apparatus is established selecting the print job data stored in the data area and transmitting the print job data to the image forming apparatus.

According to an aspect of the present invention a pull printing method is provided using a mobile terminal the pull printing method including discovering the mobile terminal corresponding to a phone number wherein the discovering is performed by a client when the discovering of the mobile terminal corresponding to the phone number fails transmitting print job data to a relay server wherein the transmitting is performed by the client and providing the print job data to the mobile terminal by using a mobile communication network an e mail server or a messenger server wherein the providing is performed by the relay server wherein when the mobile terminal is connected to an image forming apparatus the mobile terminal prints the print job data obtained from the relay server by using the image forming apparatus.

According to an aspect of the present invention a computer readable recording medium is provided having embodied thereon a program for executing the method.

According to an aspect of the present invention a client of transmitting print job data for pull printing is provided the client including a communication unit that transmits receives data in a wired or wireless manner a user interface that provides a graphical user interface GUI for print setup in response to a print command and enables a mobile terminal to be selected from among at least one output device that may be selected on the GUI and a control unit that discovers the mobile terminal by using identification information of the mobile terminal and controls the communication unit to transmit print job data based on a result of the discovery.

According to an aspect of the present invention a pull printing system is provided including a mobile terminal a client that discovers the mobile terminal by using a phone number according to a print command of a user and transmits rendered print job data to the mobile terminal and an image forming apparatus that when connected to the mobile terminal receives the print job data from the mobile terminal and performs printing.

Reference will now be made in detail to the embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein like reference numerals refer to the like elements throughout. The embodiments are described below to explain the present invention by referring to the figures.

The present invention is described with reference to the accompanying drawings in which exemplary embodiments of the present invention are illustrated. Expressions such as at least one of when preceding a list of elements modify the entire list of elements and do not modify the individual elements of the list. Examples of an image forming apparatus may include a printer a scanner a copier a facsimile or a multifunction printer MFP . Print job data refers to a job performed by the image forming apparatus. Accordingly the print job data is not limited to data for printing a document and may refer to data for performing other jobs of the image forming apparatus for example data for scanning copying or faxing a document.

Since a pull printing server may be in a network a client may access the pull printing server. Since both the pull printing server and the client may be based on a personal computer PC data transmission reception is possible between the pull printing server and the client.

In the pull printing environment the mobile terminal may be used instead of the pull printing server. Thus the mobile terminal is used as the mobile server for pull printing on the network . However mobility of the mobile terminal should be preserved. Since the mobile terminal is different from a PC a new data transmission reception procedure may be required between the mobile terminal and the client .

Although the client is a laptop in an exemplary embodiment is not limited thereto. Examples of the client may include a desktop a tablet PC a personal digital assistant PDA and a smart phone. The client receives a print command from a user renders a document to be printed and generates print job data. As the client performs rendering the print quality may be higher than that in the case when the mobile terminal performs rendering.

Since the rendering engines for some word processor documents may be unknown rendering the word processor documents in the mobile terminal may be limited. When an original text and an original image included in a document are rendered in the mobile terminal output quality is not reduced. However specific graphic effects whose sources are unknown may not be obtained when the mobile terminal performs rendering.

The document to be printed may be rendered by using various methods such as postscript PS XML paper specification XPS portable document format PDF printer control language PCL joint photographic experts group JPEG PRN or universal print driver UPD . All or some of the rendering methods may be supported by printers used to print the document. When the document to be printed is rendered by a method not supported by a printer the document may not be printed. In this case a printer driver may be used to render the document to be printed by using a previously known method.

When the client performs rendering the client may not know in advance which printer will perform printing. Accordingly the client may perform rendering by using a general purpose method or by using a plurality of methods. According to an exemplary embodiment for example the client performs rendering by using a PDF method.

The print job data generated by the client includes print setup data. The print setup data may include information for example the number of copies a paper setup a print direction single double sided printing or a print ratio.

Since a print job data is data generated in the middle of a print process for obtaining a final output matter the print job data may be simultaneously generated and transmitted to a printer and is not provided to a user. Accordingly the user may not obtain the print job data in the middle of the print process in the related art. Even when the print job data is obtained the print job data may need to be transmitted to a mobile terminal which is not used in a general print process. A user may have to manually connect the mobile terminal to a client through a data cable or the like and manually copy the print job data into the mobile terminal. However even when the print job data is successfully copied into the mobile terminal the mobile terminal may not be able to use the print job data.

According to an exemplary embodiment however since the mobile terminal may be registered as an output device in the client when a user s print request is generated the client may automatically transmit the print job data to the mobile terminal . That is the user may transmit the print job data of the client to the mobile terminal by using the same method as that used to transmit a general print command.

Various interfacing methods by which the client transmits the print job data to the mobile terminal may used. Although the print job data is transmitted through the network of the AP in an exemplary embodiment is not limited thereto. For example the client and the mobile terminal may be directly connected to each other by using an interfacing method such as WiFi Direct universal serial bus USB Bluetooth near field communication NFC Zigbee or W USB. Alternatively the above interfacing methods may be used to transmit the print job data according to priorities. For example the client may transmit the print job data through the network by using a primary interfacing method and when the primary interfacing method fails the client may transmit the print job data by using a secondary interfacing method for example WiFi Direct. According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention for example the print job data may be transmitted through the network .

The mobile terminal stores the print job data received from the client . The mobile terminal in which the print job data is stored transmits the print job data to the image forming apparatus when the image forming apparatus is connected to the mobile terminal . The image forming apparatus may be any of an image forming apparatus inside the network and an image forming apparatus outside the network . However the print job data may only be output by the image forming apparatus inside the network according to an exemplary embodiment. For example the mobile terminal may transmit the print job data only to the image forming apparatus inside the network by using identification information of the image forming apparatus such as an Internet protocol IP address or a media access control MAC address.

The mobile terminal and the image forming apparatus may be connected to each other in a wired and or wireless manner. For example the mobile terminal and the image forming apparatus may be connected to each other by using an interfacing method such as WiFi WiFi Direct USB Bluetooth NFC Zigbee or W USB. In when the image forming apparatus is detected by using NFC tagging the mobile terminal may obtain information necessary to establish WiFi Direct connection by using NFC. When the WiFi Direct connection between the mobile terminal and the image forming apparatus is established the mobile terminal may transmit the print job data to the image forming apparatus by using WiFi Direct.

In the pull printing environment the mobile terminal is not in the network . Since the mobile terminal is not discovered in the network the client may not transmit print job data to the mobile terminal through the network . Since the client and the mobile terminal are separated from each other the client and the mobile terminal may not be connected to each other by using an interfacing method such as WiFi Direct USB Bluetooth NFC Zigbee or W USB.

The client transmits the print job data to the relay server . In order to inform the relay server that a destination of the print job data is the mobile terminal the client may transmit identification information of the mobile terminal along with the print job data. A network address of the relay server may be previously set in the client .

The relay server transmits the print job data to the mobile terminal through an external network that is different from the network . The relay server may use messenger e mail or a mobile communication system to transmit the print job data.

The relay server may be a messenger server or an e mail server. When the relay server is a messenger server or an e mail server the client transmits the print job data to a messenger address or an e mail address of the mobile terminal which is already known. When the relay server receives a message or an e mail the mobile terminal downloads the print job data from the relay server through the external network .

The relay server may be a server that connects to a predetermined application installed in the mobile terminal . For example the relay server transmits a push message to the mobile terminal through the predetermined application installed in the mobile terminal . The push message informs the mobile terminal that the print job data has been received by the relay server . The mobile terminal downloads the print job data from the relay server by executing the predetermined application.

The relay server may store a plurality of pieces of information such as a phone number a MAC address an e mail address and a messenger address of the mobile terminal such that the at least two pieces of information are associated. For example when the relay server receives the phone number of the mobile terminal and the print job data from the client the relay server obtains an e mail address or a messenger address corresponding to the phone number of the mobile terminal . The relay server transmits the print job data to the obtained e mail address or message address. When both the e mail address and the messenger address are associated with the phone number of the mobile terminal the relay server may transmit the print job data to both the e mail address and the messenger address or may select one address and transmit the print job data to the selected address. Priorities may be previously assigned to the e mail address and the messenger address.

In operation A the client provides a graphical user interface GUI for print setup in response to a print command. When the user requests the client for printing the client displays the GUI for setting an output device a print ratio a printed page or the number of copies. For example the client displays a GUI B see for example . Although setting items such as a print ratio a printed page and the number of copies is illustrated in the setting items may be included in the GUI B according to an embodiment of the present invention. Although the GUI B for print setup is displayed in it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that any type of GUI capable of selecting or setting an output device may be used in an embodiment of the present invention. When the mobile terminal is set as an output device in advance operations A and A may be omitted and the mobile terminal may be directly discovered according to a print command.

In operation A the client allows the mobile terminal to be selected from among at least one output device that may be selected on the GUI. A list of output devices registered in the client may be displayed as a pull down menu B in the GUI B. The client selects the mobile terminal in the pull down menu B. The client may select the mobile terminal by using a phone number of the mobile terminal . That is the client may select the mobile terminal by selecting or directly inputting the phone number of the mobile terminal displayed in the pull down menu B.

Although the mobile terminal is displayed as Mobile 010 1234 5678 in the mobile terminal may be displayed differently. For example the mobile terminal may be displayed by using at least one from among a user name a phone number and a model name of the mobile terminal . A phone number in the Mobile 010 1234 5678 may be modified. For example the phone number 010 1234 5678 may be modified by using a properties button B. When the phone number is modified it may be understood that a receiving device of the print job data may have been changed.

In the list of the output devices displayed as the pull down menu B the phone number may not be specified and only Mobile may be displayed. That is the term Mobile may refer to an arbitrary mobile terminal. Accordingly when Mobile device is selected it may indicate that an output method is selected but it does not indicate that a device to actually receive print job data is specified. When the user selects the Mobile as an output device and presses an OK button the client displays a GUI not shown for receiving a phone number and receives the phone number from the user. Alternatively when the Mobile is selected as an output device a phone number input window not shown in the GUI B may be activated. Although an exemplary method of selecting the mobile terminal by using a phone number have been described in the above the scope of the present invention is not limited thereto.

The client may simultaneously select a plurality of mobile terminals. The print job data may be transmitted to each of the selected mobile terminals. The client may select a group of mobile terminals in order to simultaneously select a plurality of mobile terminals. For example as illustrated in the client may select Depart. A in order to simultaneously transmit the print job data to mobile devices 1 2 and 3.

In operation A the client discovers the mobile terminal by using identification information of the mobile terminal . The identification information of the mobile terminal may be previously set in the client according to the user s input. The following example uses identification information of the mobile terminal that is a phone number. However a MAC address an IP address a device name or a Hash value of the mobile terminal as well as the phone number may be used as the identification information of the mobile terminal .

The client broadcasts a discovery message including a phone number to the network to discover the mobile terminal . When the mobile terminal operates the mobile server in the network the discovery message of the client is received by the mobile terminal . The mobile terminal determines whether the phone number included in the discovery message is identical to the phone number of the mobile terminal and when it is determined that the phone numbers are identical to each other the mobile terminal transmits a response message including an authentication code to the client . That is when the phone number included in the discovery message is identical to the phone number of the mobile terminal the client receives the response message including the authentication code from the mobile terminal .

Alternatively the client may discover the mobile terminal by using an interfacing method such as WiFi Direct Bluetooth NFC Zigbee or W USB. The client determines whether the mobile terminal exists within the coverage of the client .

In operation A the client transmits the print job data based on a result of the discovery performed in operation A. When the mobile terminal is discovered in operation A the mobile terminal operates the mobile server in the network and the mobile terminal transmits a response message. When the mobile terminal is discovered in operation A the client transmits the print job data to the mobile terminal .

When the mobile terminal is not discovered in operation A the client transmits the print job data to a predetermined network address. In this case identification information of the mobile terminal may be transmitted to the predetermined network address along with the print job data. The predetermined network address refers to an address for transmitting the print job data to the mobile terminal through the external network that is different from the network . For example the predetermined network address may be an address of the relay server that relays the print job data to the mobile terminal through a mobile communication network an e mail or a messenger.

The print job data may be stored in the mobile server operated by the mobile terminal and may be printed by the image forming apparatus when the mobile terminal is connected to the image forming apparatus .

Referring to in operation A the client installs a pull printing driver. The pull printing driver refers to software that is installed in the client to transmit print job data to the mobile terminal according to a print command and perform pull printing by using the mobile terminal .

In operation A the client registers the mobile terminal as an output device therein as the pull printing driver is installed. That is the client may register a new output device in an operation system installed therein. Once the mobile terminal is registered as a new output device in the operation system all of application programs using a print application programming interface API of the operation system recognize the mobile terminal registered in the operation system as an output device. Accordingly when any of the application programs is used a method of transmitting print job data according to the present invention may be used for general purposes.

In operation A an arbitrary terminal may be registered without being designated by using identification information for example a phone number. Alternatively in operation A the client may receive a phone number designate the mobile terminal and register the mobile terminal .

In operation A the client inputs or modifies information about the registered mobile terminal . The information about the mobile terminal may include information from among items illustrated in for example a group a device name a phone number a user name an authentication code e.g. a PIN code and a MAC address. Operation A may be omitted according to an embodiment of the present invention. For example when the information about the mobile terminal is already input in operation A operation A may be omitted.

In operation A the client authenticates the input information about the mobile terminal . That is in order to use only the authenticated mobile terminal for security purposes the client may authenticate the information about the mobile terminal and only when the information is authenticated registration may be completed. Direct authentication on the mobile terminal remote authentication using an external authentication server not shown or the relay server or local authentication using the client may be performed. When the information is authenticated the registration of the mobile terminal is completed and the mobile terminal may be used as an output device.

When the mobile terminal is registered in the client Mobile B may be displayed as an output device as illustrated in a GUI B of .

In operation A when the mobile terminal is selected as an output device according to a print command the client determines whether a profile of the mobile terminal exists in the client . The profile may include but is not limited to information about the mobile terminal for example a phone number and a MAC address of the mobile terminal .

According to an exemplary embodiment the profile is generated when first connection between the mobile terminal and the client succeeds. Accordingly when the client determines whether the profile of the mobile terminal exists it may be understood that it is determined whether the mobile terminal has ever been connected to the client . Since the profile is generated when connection between the mobile terminal and the client succeeds the profile is different from information which the user manually inputs.

When it is determined in operation A that the profile does not exist the method proceeds to operation A. In operation A the client broadcasts to the network a discovery message including identification information for example a phone number. When the identification information corresponds to the mobile terminal for example when the phone number included in the discovery message is identical to a phone number of the mobile terminal the mobile terminal transmits a response message to the client . Information for connecting the client and the mobile terminal may be included in the response message. For example a network address for accessing the mobile server operated by the mobile terminal or a MAC address of the mobile terminal may be included in the response message. An authentication code e.g. a PIN code for authenticating the mobile terminal may be included in the response message.

In operation A the client authenticates the mobile terminal by using the received authentication code. Accordingly the client may prevent the print job data from being intercepted in response to a malicious command of an authenticated device. When the mobile terminal is authenticated in operation A the client transmits the rendered print job data to the mobile terminal . In operation A the client generates the profile of the mobile terminal .

When it is determined in operation A that the response message is not received that is when there is a timeout after the discovery message is broadcast the client determines that the mobile terminal fails to be discovered. In operation A the client failing to discover the mobile terminal transmits the print job data to a predetermined network address. The predetermined network address may be an address for transmitting the print job data to the mobile terminal by using a mobile communication network an e mail or a messenger.

When it is determined in operation A that the profile of the mobile terminal exists the method proceeds to operation A. In operation A the client broadcasts the profile to the network . Alternatively instead of broadcasting the profile the client may request the AP to directly transmit the discovery message to a device having a MAC address included in the profile.

In operation A the client determines whether the response message is received from the mobile terminal . When it is determined in operation A that the response message is not received from the mobile terminal the method proceeds to operation A. In operation A the client transmits the print job data to the predetermined network address. When it is determined in operation A that the response message is received from the mobile terminal the method proceeds to operation A. In operation A the client transmits the rendered print job data to the mobile terminal . When the profile is used authentication performed on the mobile terminal may be omitted.

In operation A the mobile terminal receives print job data of the client via the mobile server embedded therein.

In operation A the mobile terminal stores the print job data in a data area of the mobile server. The mobile terminal may assign a part of a whole storage unit to the mobile server and may enable the print job data to be stored in the data area of the mobile server. The data area of the mobile server may be encrypted for security purposes. That is the data area may be encrypted such that only when the mobile terminal is authenticated by using an encryption key the data area of the mobile server may be accessed.

When connection between the mobile terminal and the image forming apparatus is established the method proceeds to operation A. In operation A the mobile terminal selects the print job data in the data area of the mobile server and transmits the print job data to the image forming apparatus . When connection with the image forming apparatus is detected the mobile terminal may display a list of pieces of print job data which are stored in the data area of the mobile server. The mobile terminal transmits the print job data selected by the user in the list of the pieces of print job data to the image forming apparatus . The image forming apparatus receives the print job data and performs printing.

In operation A the mobile terminal executes a pull printing application. The pull printing application refers to software for executing a pull printing method according to the present invention. The pull printing application may include a mobile server module. That is a mobile server function of the mobile terminal is included in the pull printing application.

In operation A the mobile terminal actives the mobile server and assigns at least one communication port to the mobile server. The mobile server may be embodied as any of various protocol servers such as a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP server or a file transfer protocol FTP server. A HTTP server may be used in consideration of intermittent access of the client a resource of the mobile terminal a size and a type of transmission data and mobility but an exemplary embodiment is not limited thereto.

The communication port assigned to the mobile server may be but is not limited to a transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP port. When the mobile server is activated the data area is assigned to the mobile server. According to the pull printing application the mobile server may be activated or inactivated according to the user s settings. When a mobile application is initially executed the mobile server may be automatically activated. When the mobile terminal is not connected to the network the pull printing application may request for connection of the network in order to operate the mobile server.

According to embodiments of the present invention when a pull printing application termination command is generated the mobile terminal may terminate processes other than the mobile server from among processes of the pull printing application that is being executed. The mobile server is operated as a background of the mobile terminal . Accordingly even after the mobile application terminates the mobile terminal may receive print job data by using the mobile server. When the print job data is received the mobile terminal provides to the user a notice indicating that the print job data has been received. The mobile server may be forcibly shut down. The pull printing application may inactivate the mobile server or forcibly terminate the mobile server that is being executed in the operation system of the mobile terminal .

In operation A the mobile terminal monitors the communication port by using the mobile server. The mobile server may monitor but is not limited to a TCP IP port assigned through a simple network management protocol SNMP .

In operation A the mobile terminal receives a discovery message transmitted by the client through the communication port by using the mobile server.

In operation A the mobile terminal determines whether the discovery message corresponds to the mobile terminal . The mobile terminal determines whether identification information included in the discovery message for example a phone number is identical to a phone number of the mobile terminal .

When it is determined in operation A that the discovery message corresponds to the mobile terminal the method proceeds to operation A. In operation A the mobile terminal transmits a response message to the client . The response message may include at least one from among a MAC address an IP address and an authentication code e.g. a PIN code of the mobile terminal . The authentication code may be received from the user or may be previously set in the pull printing application.

In operation A the mobile terminal receives the print job data transmitted by the client through the mobile server. In operation A the mobile terminal stores the received print job data in the data area of the mobile server.

In operation A the mobile terminal establishes connection with the image forming apparatus according to the user s request. In operation A the mobile terminal selects the print job data stored in the data area of the mobile terminal according to the user s input. The mobile terminal may request the user for an encryption key in order to access the data area of the mobile server.

When the print job data is encrypted in addition to the encryption of the data area the method proceeds to operation A. In operation A the mobile terminal receives the encryption key from the user in order to use the selected print job data and may perform authentication. The encryption of the data area of the mobile server and the encryption of the print job data may be selectively performed.

In operation A the mobile terminal generates and provides a preview of the print job data. The preview may be provided according to the user s request. A rendered document to be printed and print setup data may be included in the print job data. The preview may be generated by referring to information such as a printed page the number of copies single double sided printing a print ratio or black and white or color printing of the print setup data.

In operation A the mobile terminal modifies the print job data by editing the preview according to the user s request. The mobile terminal directly edits the print job data instead of editing an original document to be printed. According to the editing the print setup data such as a printed page the number of copies single double sided printing a print ratio or black and white or color printing may be modified.

In operation A the mobile terminal establishes connection with the image forming apparatus according to the user s request and transmits the print job data to the image forming apparatus .

Referring to in operation A the relay server receives print job data and identification information of the mobile terminal from the client . The client may transmit a phone number as the identification information of the mobile terminal or when there is a profile may transmit the profile as the identification information of the mobile terminal .

In operation A the relay server determines a method of transmitting the print job data based on the identification information of the mobile terminal . Information about the mobile terminal may be previously set in the relay server . For example the relay server may collect database information such as a phone number and a MAC address of the mobile terminal and a messenger address and an e mail address corresponding to the mobile terminal . When a phone number is received as the identification information of the mobile terminal the relay server obtains a messenger address and an e mail address corresponding to the phone number. The relay server may determine a method of transmitting the print job data based on the obtained information. According to embodiments operation A may be omitted. For example when the relay server has only one transmission method operation A may be omitted.

In operation A the relay server transmits the print job data according to the determined transmission method. The relay server may directly store the print job data and may allow the print job data to be downloaded according to a request of the mobile terminal .

In operation A the relay server transmits to the mobile terminal a push message indicating that the print job data has been received. Accordingly the mobile terminal may know that the print job data has been received even when the pull printing application terminates.

In operation A the client discovers the mobile terminal by using identification information of the mobile terminal in the network .

In operation A the client determines whether the mobile terminal exists in the network according to a result of the discovery.

When it is determined in operation A that the mobile terminal exists in the network the method proceeds to operation A. In operation A the client transmits rendered print job data to the mobile terminal through the network .

When it is determined in operation A that the mobile terminal does not exist in the network the method proceeds to operation A. In operation A the client transmits the print job data to the relay server . In operation A the relay server transmits a push message to the mobile terminal through the network in order to inform the mobile terminal that the print job data has been received. In operation A as the mobile terminal knows that the print job data has been received from the push message the mobile terminal downloads the print job data from the relay server .

In operation A the mobile terminal establishes connection with the image forming apparatus according to the user s request. In operation A the mobile terminal transmits the print job data to the image forming apparatus through the connection with the image forming apparatus . In operation A the image forming apparatus performs printing based on the print job data.

Referring to the client includes a control unit a communication unit a user interface and a storage unit .

The storage unit may store processing and control programs to be executed by at least one processor of the control unit and may store input output data. A client operating system OS may be stored in the storage unit and the control unit includes at least one processor to control an overall operation of the client by executing the client OS.

A rendering engine a document editing application and a mobile client module may be included in the storage unit . illustrates the elements in the storage unit as functionally separated for convenience of explanation but may not be necessarily independent program codes. Although the elements are stored in the storage unit and are processed under the control of the control unit operations of the elements may be understood as an operation of the control unit .

The control unit reads and edits a document to be printed by executing the document editing application . When a print command is received from the user in a state where the document editing application is being executed the control unit renders the document to be printed by using the rendering engine and generates print job data.

The mobile client module is installed in the storage unit by using a pull printing driver. The control unit discovers the mobile terminal by executing the mobile client module and controls the print job data to be transmitted based on a result of the discovery.

When a response message including an authentication code is received from the mobile terminal the control unit controls an authentication unit to authenticate the mobile terminal .

The control unit generates and displays a GUI necessary to execute the mobile client module by executing a GUI management unit . For example the GUI management unit is in charge of generating and outputting a GUI for example inputting a phone number or inputting information of the mobile terminal .

An output device management unit registers the mobile terminal as an output device in the client . The output device management unit manages information about the mobile terminal and generates a profile.

The storage unit may include at least one type of storage medium from among a flash memory type a hard disk type a multimedia card micro type a card type memory for example a secure digital SD memory or an XD memory a random access memory RAM a static RAM SRAM a read only memory ROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM a programmable ROM PROM a magnetic disk and an optical disk. The client may operate a web storage that performs a storage function of the storage unit on the Internet.

The communication unit includes a transmitter and a receiver to respectively transmit receive data to from the mobile terminal and the relay server in a wired or wireless manner. For example the transmitter and the receiver of the communication unit may use an interfacing method such as Ethernet WiFi WiFi Direct USB Bluetooth NFC Zigbee or W USB to transmit receive the data.

The user interface displays the GUI for print setup in response to a print command and enables the mobile terminal to be selected from among at least one output device that may be selected on the GUI. The user interface may enable the mobile terminal to be selected by using a phone number of the mobile terminal .

The user interface may include an interface for connecting a display device and a human interface device HID . The user interface may include an interface for enabling the user to manipulate the client or displaying information processed by the client . The user interface may be configured variously according to products. The user interface may be configured simply to have 2 or 4 lines in a display device such as a liquid crystal display LCD device or a light emitting diode LED or may be configured to include a GUI that provides various graphic effects. The user interface may include a touch sensor for detecting the user s gesture.

The at least one processor of the control unit discover the mobile terminal by using identification information of the mobile terminal and control the transmitter of the communication unit to transmit the print job data based on a discovery result.

Referring to the mobile terminal includes a communication unit a user interface a control unit and a storage unit .

The communication unit transmits receives data to from the client and the relay server under the control of the control unit . For example the communication unit may use an interfacing method such as Ethernet WiFi WiFi Direct USB Bluetooth NFC Zigbee or W USB. The communication unit may further include a mobile communication module for mobile communication.

The user interface may include an interface for enabling the user to manipulate the mobile terminal or displaying information processed by the mobile terminal . The user interface may be configured variously according to products. The user interface may be configured simply to have 2 or 4 lines in a display device such as an LCD or an LED or may be configured to include a GUI that provides various graphic effects. The user interface may include a touch sensor for detecting the user s gesture.

The storage unit includes an application such as an e mail a messenger or a short message service SMS . The mobile terminal includes a mobile server module for operating the mobile server. The mobile server module includes an authentication unit a previewer an MFP management unit and a print job data management unit . The authentication unit manages an authentication code to be included in a response message. The authentication unit performs authentication necessary to access a data area of the mobile server or use print job data. The previewer provides a preview and an editing function of the print job data. The MFP management unit establishes connection with the image forming apparatus transmits the print job data to the image forming apparatus and requests for printing. The print job data management unit stores and manages the print job data in the data area of the mobile server.

The control unit controls an overall operation of the mobile terminal . The control unit includes at least one processor to execute programs stored in the storage unit . Accordingly operations of the elements of the storage unit may be understood as an operation of the at least one processor of the control unit .

Referring to the image forming apparatus includes a storage unit a function module a control unit a communication unit an emulation module and a user interface .

The function module includes a print engine a fax module and a scanner which respectively perform a printing function a faxing function and a document scanning and copying function.

The storage unit stores print job data and firmware. A folder hereinafter referred to as a document box generated according to a file server function of the image forming apparatus may exist in the storage unit . The document box may include an individual box generated according to each user and a common box shared by all users.

The user interface is hardware that functions as a medium by which the user checks information of the image forming apparatus and inputs a command to the image forming apparatus . The user interface may be understood from the descriptions of the user interface of the mobile terminal or the client . The user interface may be embodied as a touch screen.

The control unit controls an overall operation of the image forming apparatus and information necessary for control is stored in the storage unit and is read as needed.

The communication unit transmits receives data to from the mobile terminal under the control of the control unit . For example the communication unit may use an interfacing method such as Ethernet WiFi WiFi Direct USB Bluetooth NFC Zigbee or W USB.

The emulation module analyzes the print job data. The emulation module and may include the following.

The embodiments of the present invention may be written as computer programs and may be implemented in general use digital computers that execute the programs using a computer readable recording medium. The present invention may be embodied in a general purpose digital computer by running a program from a computer readable medium. Examples of the computer readable medium include storage media such as magnetic storage media e.g. ROMs floppy discs or hard discs optically readable media e.g. compact disk read only memories CD ROMs or digital versatile disks DVDs etc.

While the present invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims. The exemplary embodiments should be considered in descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Therefore the scope of the present invention is defined not by the detailed description of the present invention but by the appended claims and all differences within the scope will be construed as being included in the present invention.

Although a few embodiments have been shown and described it would be appreciated by those skilled in the art that changes may be made in these embodiments without departing from the principles and spirit of the invention the scope of which is defined in the claims and their equivalents.

