---

title: System and method for decoy management
abstract: System and method for determining which decoys should not be deployed based on the locations of the nearby high value units and other considerations. The system and method can visualize and manage the employment of decoys in a multi-platform environment by plotting the predicted path of decoys relative to high value unit (HVU) motion, and highlighting any situations that exist where the decoys (both air-drifting and self-propelled) launched from a platform can direct an incoming threat towards a high value unit. The system and method can develop, display, and automatically transmit a recommendation to launch or not launch a specific decoy.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09372052&OS=09372052&RS=09372052
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09372052
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140709
---
Methods and systems disclosed herein relate generally to decoys including both air drifting and self propelled variants simulated and actual. A decoy launched to deflect a threat from the launch platform of the decoy or other high value units HVUs in the vicinity of the launch platform to the decoy. However when a decoy is deployed from the launch platform the decoy could make other platforms or HVUs themselves targets. Air drifting decoys can drift with the true wind for a period of time while self propelled decoys fly based on other parameters a separation velocity from the launch platform for example . Tracking the relative movements of decoys from a single launch platform is possible by for example manually plotting the movement of the decoys with a maneuvering board dividers ruler and pencil. Variables that can affect the motion of the decoys can include the launch platform course and speed wind direction and speed lifetime of air drifting decoys and decoy parameters of self propelled decoys. The problem becomes more complex with the inclusion of a HVU in the vicinity of the launch platform. The launch platform needs to ensure that it does not put any decoys in a position to drift near the HVU itself or near the fly up fly through FU FT line a line extending from the direction of a possible incoming threat through the HVU position and continuing past the HVU . A decoy crossing this line ahead of or behind the HVU could seduce a threat such as for example but not limited to a missile towards the HVU. This is known as a fly up fly through situation.

To further complicate the situation there could be multiple platforms ships or aircraft launching decoys simultaneously. In simple situations visualization can be used for the management of the decoys. An operator can visualize the relative location and motion of the air drifting decoys a function of the wind speed and direction HVU course and speed launch platform range and bearing from HVU at launch time and time as well as the flight trajectories of the self propelled decoys a function of the HVU course and speed launch platform range and bearing from HVU at launch time launch platform course and speed at launch time threat bearing and time . In the more complicated situation in which there are multiple decoys multiply decoy launch platforms multiple HVUs and multiple threats human operator management of decoys by visualization or any other means especially human operator computation of the location of the decoys is impossible because of the number of variables and their rate of change. Such a situation for example when HVUs and launch platforms are maneuvering frequently could require constant revision and iteration to adjust course speed range or bearing variables.

Existing methods for decoy management are slow and inflexible. In a scenario in which decoys are being launched in a combat situation the human operator charged with managing the decoys may also have multiple other demands on her his time. Further managing decoys manually can require significant training and practice with multiple steps allowing multiple opportunities for error in determining vulnerabilities in the current formation where decoys could move to positions that could endanger the HVU. Ultimately the human operator needs to determine which launch platforms should refrain from launching which decoys or where launch platforms could move to clear up any dangerous situation. When time is of the essence and accuracy matters there are simply too many constantly changing variables for a human operator to effectively manage decoys without automated assistance. Further considerations in decoy management can include but are not limited to 1 tactics and doctrine 2 visualizing planning and managing false force presentation through the use of air drifting decoys such as chaff 3 preventing foreign object debris from landing on ships leading to aircraft engine failure 4 managing deployment of smoke obscurants to visually hide a vessel 5 avoiding hazardous plumes and 5 air dropping to a moving target.

What is needed is a system that reduces or eliminates a human operator s workload. At most a human operator should be required to input a few numbers. Numerous time consuming calculations should be executed automatically their interactions and the iterative nature of constantly updating variables associated with decoy management as stated above should be instantly providing the operator at least a complete and clear graphical picture to heighten her his situational awareness preferably a launch no launch directive transmitted automatically to the launch platforms in real time. What is further needed is that the system automatically computes a graphical solution at various range scales allowing the operator to adjust to view the situation formation laydown. Finally the training and practice required to achieve proficiency should be reduced to minutes.

The system and method of the present embodiment can determine which decoys should not be deployed based on the locations of the nearby high value units and other considerations. The system and method of the present embodiment for visualizing and managing the employment of decoys in a multi platform environment can 1 plot the predicted path of decoys relative to HVU motion and 2 highlight any situations that exist where the decoys both air drifting and self propelled launched from a platform for example but not limited to ship or aircraft could potentially place the HVU in danger by distracting or seducing an incoming threat into the path of the HVU. The system and method of the present embodiment can develop display and automatically transmit a recommendation to launch or not launch a specific decoy.

The system and method of the present embodiment can automatically analyze the platform formation to detect and mitigate instances of potential fratricide. These detected instances of potential fratricide can be for example automatically highlighted on a graphic display to draw the operator s attention and show the operator exactly which platform must be moved or directed to abort decoy launch. Actionable recommendations can be automatically generated to mitigate the potential fratricide situations. For example directive text orders can appear on the screen for the operator to read and broadcast over the radio or specific commands can be automatically transmitted to launch platforms automatically. The system and method can facilitate simulations so that various possible scenarios can be evaluated quickly. Simulations could be done in the mission planning phase to prevent the possible fratricide situation from developing in the first place or in real time to create new stationing assignments to resolve a potentially dangerous situation.

The problems set forth above as well as further and other problems are solved by the present teachings. These solutions and other advantages are achieved by the various embodiments of the teachings described herein below. The system and method of the present embodiment automatically track the potential movements of decoys both air drifting and self propelled as they move relative to HVUs in the vicinity and can cause deployment of the decoys to be aborted. The system and method can execute on a small shipboard device or can be scaled up to include ever increasing amounts of automation. The system and method calculate the minimum distance from the decoy s projected trajectory to one or more HVUs and also the minimum distance from the decoy s projected trajectory to the fly up fly through FU FT line if a threat bearing is available. If air drifting decoys are predicted to pass closer than a pre determined distance from either the HVU itself or the fly up fly through line the system and method can either create a warning display such as a circle around the launch platform and a radio command and or can automatically abort the decoy deployment. Likewise the system and method can calculate the minimum distance from the endpoints of possible self propelled decoy flights to the FU FT line. If the minimum distance falls closer than a pre set threshold distance the system and method can create warn the operator and or can automatically abort the decoy launch or take other action.

The system and method can compute and or receive input such as for example but not limited to lifetime of the air drifting decoys time of flight and separation velocity for self propelled decoys air drifting decoy minimum distance to HVU and FU FT line and self propelled decoy minimum distance to FU FT line. A user interface can allow data entry for routine operation such as for example but not limited to formation of launch platforms name course speed range and bearing from HVU HVU information course and speed wind direction and speed and threat bearing if specified . A visualization can show the formation laydown threat bearing where the launch points are where the air drifting decoys will move in 1 minute intervals and where the self propelled decoys will fly. For each platform launching air drifting decoys the system and method can calculate the minimum distance from the decoy s trajectory to HVU itself and also the minimum distance from the decoy s trajectory to the FU FT line if a threat bearing is specified. If the air drifting decoys will pass closer than a pre determined distance which can but is not limited to being entered during setup from either the HVU itself or the FU FT line the system and method can plot a red circle around the launch platform on the display. Additionally a message can appear at the top of the graphic for example in red print with the command that a watchstander could pass on the radio to negate the decoy launch from all offending platforms for example PSE HOLD CHAFF . Likewise the system and method can calculate the minimum distance from the endpoints of possible self propelled decoy flights to the FU FT line. If this falls closer than a pre set threshold distance the system and method can plot for example but not limited to a purple circle around the launch platform on the display. Additionally a message can appear at the top of the graphic for example in purple print with the command the watchstander could pass on the radio to negate self propelled decoy launches from all offending platforms for example TRX RSV HOLD NULKA .

Referring now to routine operation data can include but are not limited to including wind direction wind speed HVU name HVU x location HVU y location HVU course HVU speed launch platform LP name LP bearing LP range LP course and LP speed . In the example shown in LP B LP C and LP D fields have the same meaning as LP fields listed previously. LP is a platform without self propelled decoys therefore it is for a platform such as for example but not limited to an aircraft or a ship that can only deploy air drifting decoys. In this example wind direction is the true wind measured in degrees True T wind speed is the true wind speed measured in knots and HVU name is a trigraph for the naming HVU . In this example HVU location x and HVU location y are set and locked at yards making HVU always the center of the display and everything shown relative to it. Other embodiments are possible. HVU course is the course of HVU measured in degrees T. HVU speed is the speed of HVU measured in knots. LP name is the trigraph for ship that can launch air drifting decoys. LP bearing is measured in degrees T from HVU to the LP A. LP range is the range from the HVU to LP A measured in nautical miles nm . If a launch platform is not needed it can be removed from the display by making LP range a large number i.e. 100 nm removing the launch platform from the display screen. LP range may be used to position LP A coincident with another launch platform or HVU even though such a position is not physically possible. Some embodiments may forbid such a configuration. LP course is the true course of the launch platform measured in degrees T. LP speed is the true speed of LP A measured in knots. LP B LP C and LP D can include the same characteristics as LP A. LP can also include the same characteristics as LP A LP D although LP is limited to air drifting decoys since it is shown to be an aircraft. Threat axis also referred to herein as FU FT line is the threat bearing measured by HVU in degrees T and is referenced by the self propelled decoy. Threat axis . . . are reference lines . The air drifting decoy minimum distance to HVU is determined for example but not limited to during setup and can be but is not limited to being locked at a specified distance based on the threshold of how close is it acceptable to have air drifting decoys pass from HVU . The air drifting decoy minimum distance to FU FT line can be for example but not limited to entered during setup and locked at a specified distance based on the threshold of how close it is acceptable to have air drifting decoys pass from FU FT line . The self propelled decoy minimum distance to FU FT line can be for example but not limited to entered during setup and locked at a specified distance based on the threshold of how close is it acceptable to self propelled decoys pass from FU FT line . The air drifting decoy minimum distance to FU FT could also cover the air drifting decoy minimum distance to HVU since the FU FT line goes through the HVU position 0 0 . The display of FIG. can be zoomed in or out. Zooming options can be but are not limited to being 5 nm 10 nm 15 nm and 20 nm.

Once threat axis is determined the system and method can provide visual notification for example about what actions launch platforms should or should not take for example hold fire for the self propelled decoy A or hold fire for the air drifting decoy B. If there are no restrictions a message could be displayed to that effect for example NO NULKA RESTRICTIONS or NO CHAFF RESTRICTIONS . These visual notifications can be used to give the operator a quick text for what to pass over the radio thus distilling the necessary information for when the operator is task loaded and doesn t have time for analysis of the graphical display.

Continuing to refer to graph is oriented north up 000T with the HVU fixed in the center at point 0 0 . Axes values are shown in yards because the decoy miss distances can be very small. LP A LP B LP C and LP D indicate launch platform positions at launch time . Dot strings A B C and D represents the air drifting decoy locations in one minute intervals until they dissipate. Lines A B C and D are possible self propelled decoy trajectories. Multiple threat axes can be entered for reference. Air drift hold circles indicate which launch platforms should not release air drifting decoys because they would pass too close to HVU or FU FT line . Self propelled hold circles indicate which launch platforms should not launch self propelled decoys because the endpoint of the flight is too close to the FU FT line.

Referring now to method for managing decoys can include but is not limited to including determining either automatically or manually required information such as for example but not limited to 

Continuing to refer to method can also include converting the wind direction to wind drift and Cartesian coordinates to determine how far a parcel of air would move in the x and y direction based on wind speed and direction. Method can also include calculating wind movement in the x and y directions based on wind speed and direction and calculating HVU movement in the x and y directions based on HVU course and speed. HVU course and speed are converted to Cartesian coordinates and how far the HVU will move in the x and y direction is determined. If there are any incoming threats method can include calculating the equation of an FU FT line that runs across the entire domain along the threat bearing through origin and across the other side and calculating the series of points along the FU FT line based on a desired spatial resolution across the entire x domain. Method can include repeating steps and for each launch platform in the vicinity of the HVU. Method can further include converting the launch platform from range and bearing from the HVU to Cartesian values x and y values relative to the HVU to determine decoy launch locations and determining decoy drift relative to the HVU frame of reference. Air drifting decoy location is determined for every time step for the length of the lifetime of the decoy. At time t 0 the decoy is at the launch platform location. For each additional time step the u and v components of the wind are multiplied times the timestep to determine the displacement from which is subtracted the motion of the HVU times the timestep to determine the location in an HVU centered frame of reference. To determine if the decoy cloud passes too close to the HVU method can include calculating the distance from the HVU for each air drifting decoy location and calculating for each launch platform the minimum distance from any decoy location to the HVU across all time steps. If the calculated minimum distance is below the distance threshold method can include annotating the launch platform that is too close for example but not limited to by drawing a circle around the launch platform. In addition a recommendation can optionally be generated if the input received is less than the threshold. For example text can be concatenated adding the launch platform name to the words HOLD AIR DRIFTING . If no there is no input received a message such as NO AIR DRIFTING RESTRICTIONS can be used.

Continuing to still further refer to method can even still further include the step of determining how close decoys come from the FU FT line by calculating for each air drifting decoy location the distance to each point on the FU FT line. For each air drifting decoy location method can include calculating the minimum distance to each point on the FU FT line for each launch platform and calculating the minimum distance from any decoy location to FU FT line. The distances across the time steps can be minimized to determine the minimum distance the decoy passed at any time step from the FU FT line. If the minimum distance is less than the distance threshold method can include annotating the launch platform by for example but not limited to drawing a circle around the launch platform. Method can also include generating a recommendation if the input received is less than the distance threshold. The recommendation can be created for example but not limited to by concatenating text adding the platform name to HOLD AIR DRIFTING string. If no input is received the message NO AIR DRIFTING RESTRICTIONS can be used.

Continuing to even still further refer to method can also include calculating launch platform movement by converting to Cartesian coordinates and determining how far a launch platform can move in the x or y direction. Method can include calculating a self propelled decoy trajectory based on the separation velocity of the decoy and the time of the decoy flight calculating x and y displacement over time and calculating how far the decoy will fly in the x and y direction by adding x and y of launch platform motion to x and y separation velocity per time step and then subtracting HVU x and y motion per time step. Method can include determining how close decoys end up relative to the FU FT line by for each self propelled decoy endpoint location calculating the distance to each point on the FU FT line and for each self propelled decoy endpoint location calculating the minimum distance to each point on the FU FT line and for each launch platform calculating the minimum distance from the decoy endpoints to FU FT.

Finally referring to if the minimum distance is less than the distance threshold method can include annotating the launch platform by for example but not limited to drawing a circle around the launch platform. Method can optionally include generating a recommendation if input received is less than the distance threshold. The recommendation can include but is not limited to including concatenating text adding platform name to HOLD SELF PROPELLED string. If no input is received the message NO SELF PROPELLED RESTRICTIONS can be used. Method can optionally include plotting all features on a display including but not limited to launch platform locations decoy locations identification of offenders and recommendations to hold decoys.

Referring now to b in another embodiment method for managing at least one decoy can include but is not limited to including determining decoy characteristics and at least one decoy minimum distance threshold for the at least one decoy determining at least one hvu location of at least one hvu relative to at least one launch platform of the at least one decoy automatically calculating by a computer at least one set of lines extending from at least one direction of at least one threat through the at least one hvu location and continuing beyond the at least one hvu location automatically calculating by the computer at least one decoy trajectory of the at least one decoy based on the at least one direction launch time of the at least one decoy bearing from the at least one hvu at a decoy launch time of the at least one decoy course and speed of the at least one hvu course range and speed of the at least one decoy launch platform wind direction and speed at the at least one launch platform and the decoy characteristics automatically calculating by the computer at least one hvu minimum distance from the at least one decoy trajectory to the at least one hvu location automatically calculating by the computer at least one line minimum distance from the at least one decoy trajectory to each of the at least one line of the at least one set of lines and automatically providing by the computer an indication if any of the at least one hvu minimum distance and the at least one line minimum distance are smaller than the at least one decoy minimum distance threshold.

Method can optionally include providing a recommendation based on the indication. The recommendation can optionally include a decoy launch recommendation. The decoy can optionally be an air drifting decoy that is associated with a lifetime and a time of flight. The decoy can optionally be a self propelled decoy that is associated with a separation velocity. Method can optionally include automatically calculating the decoy trajectory based on a flight trajectory of the self propelled decoy determining a threat bearing of the at least one threat and providing values of the decoy trajectory at pre selected time intervals. The indication can optionally include a notification to an operator. The notification can optionally include a display including highlighting the decoy launch platform having the HVU minimum distance below the decoy minimum distance threshold. The indication can optionally include an electronic message to the decoy launch platform of the decoy the decoy launch platform being associated with the HVU minimum distance below the decoy minimum distance threshold.

Referring now to system for managing at least one decoy can include but is not limited to including decoy characteristics processor determining decoy characteristics and at least one decoy minimum distance threshold for the at least one decoy and HVU characteristics processor determining from HVU characteristics at least one HVU location of at least one HVU relative to the location of at least one launch platform of the at least one decoy the location being determined from launch platform characteristics . System can also include threat processor automatically calculating by a computer at least one set of lines extending from at least one direction of at least one threat through the at least one HVU location and continuing beyond the at least one HVU location and trajectory processor automatically calculating by the computer at least one decoy trajectory of the at least one decoy based on the at least one direction and launch time of the at least one decoy bearing from the at least one HVU at a decoy launch time of the at least one decoy course and speed of the at least one HVU course range and speed of the at least one decoy launch platform wind direction and speed at the at least one launch platform and decoy characteristics . Threat processor can automatically calculate by the computer at least one HVU minimum distance from the at least one decoy trajectory to the at least one HVU location automatically calculate by the computer at least one line minimum distance from the at least one decoy trajectory to each of the at least one line of the at least one set of lines and threshold processor automatically providing by the computer indication if any of the at least one HVU minimum distance and the at least one line minimum distance are smaller than the at least one decoy minimum distance threshold .

Continuing to refer to threshold processor can optionally provide a recommendation based on indication . The recommendation can optionally include a decoy launch recommendation. The decoy can optionally be an air drifting decoy that is associated with a lifetime and a time of flight. The decoy can optionally be a self propelled decoy that is associated with a separation velocity. Trajectory processor can optionally automatically calculate decoy trajectory based on a flight trajectory of the self propelled decoy and can optionally automatically determine a threat bearing of the at least one threat and provide values of decoy trajectory at pre selected time intervals. Indication can optionally include a notification to an operator. The notification can optionally include a display including highlighting decoy launch platform having HVU minimum distance below decoy minimum distance threshold . Indication can optionally include an electronic message to decoy launch platform of the decoy decoy launch platform being associated with HVU minimum distance below decoy minimum distance threshold .

In a test environment system successfully identified vulnerabilities and required mitigations with respect to the laydown and formation of ships during mission planning. During real time at sea exercises system provided watchstander guidance and actionable recommendations regarding decoy management by automatically identifying and highlighting situations of possible fratricide.

Embodiments of the present teachings are directed to computer systems such as system for accomplishing the methods such as method and method discussed in the description herein and to computer readable media containing programs for accomplishing these methods. The raw data and results can be stored for future retrieval and processing printed displayed transferred to another computer and or transferred elsewhere. Communications links such as electronic communications can be wired or wireless for example using cellular communication systems military communications systems and satellite communications systems. In an exemplary embodiment the software for the system is written in FORTRAN and C. The system can operate on a computer having a variable number of CPUs. Other alternative computer platforms can be used. The operating system can be for example but is not limited to LINUX .

The present teachings are also directed to software for accomplishing the methods discussed herein and computer readable media storing software for accomplishing these methods. The various modules described herein can be accomplished on the same CPU or can be accomplished on different computers. In compliance with the statute the present embodiment has been described in language more or less specific as to structural and methodical features. It is to be understood however that the present embodiment is not limited to the specific features shown and described since the means herein disclosed comprise forms of putting the present teachings into effect.

Methods such as method and method of the present teachings can be in whole or in part implemented electronically. Signals representing actions taken by elements of the system and other disclosed embodiments can travel over at least one live communications network . Control and data information can be electronically executed and stored on at least one computer readable medium. System can be implemented to execute on at least one computer node in at least one live communications network . Common forms of at least one computer readable medium can include for example but not be limited to a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk magnetic tape or any other magnetic medium a compact disk read only memory or any other optical medium punched cards paper tape or any other physical medium with patterns of holes a random access memory a programmable read only memory and erasable programmable read only memory EPROM a Flash EPROM or any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read. Further the at least one computer readable medium can contain graphs in any form including but not limited to Graphic Interchange Format GIF Joint Photographic Experts Group JPEG Portable Network Graphics PNG Scalable Vector Graphics SVG and Tagged Image File Format TIFF .

Although the present teachings have been described with respect to various embodiments it should be realized these teachings are also capable of a wide variety of further and other embodiments.

