---

title: Adaptive cloud-based work routing
abstract: A system for adaptive cloud-based routing, comprising a cloud-based work router that may receive work tasks from clients and route them to resources based on known configuration information or status information from clients and resources, and a configuration server for establishing configuration parameters, and a method for providing adaptive routing behavior.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09015250&OS=09015250&RS=09015250
owner: Aria Solutions Inc.
number: 09015250
owner_city: Calgary
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20140402
---
The disclosure relates to the field of task management and more particularly to the field of routing and assigning work tasks.

It is common for enterprises and corporations in the art to employ internal work routing systems to assign work tasks to resources such as software systems or human personnel. Generally these routing systems require the manual configuration of complex routing strategies to instruct the system regarding how to assign work properly. Rules are configured and followed and any change to routing must be effected by updating and rewriting these routing strategies.

Such arrangements can be very costly in terms of resources hardware and software resources must be dedicated to performing routing operations time and money employing someone to maintain the routing strategies . Additionally such arrangements do not allow for adaptive behavior and must be manually updated if any changes are desired. Again this can be quite costly as changes to routing must now be performed manually based on any observed results or metrics from prior routing decisions which therefore requires personnel to review or monitor operations to determine if changes are needed.

What is needed is a means to automatically perform routing behavior with minimal manual input and to provide adaptive routing behavior utilizing machine learning such that manual review and configuration is no longer needed.

Accordingly the inventor has conceived and reduced to practice in a preferred embodiment of the invention a system and method for adaptive cloud based work routing such that an enterprise or other entity may assign and distribute work assignments more efficiently and without the additional cost of maintaining an in house work routing platform.

According to a preferred embodiment of the invention a system for adaptive cloud based work routing comprising a work router for assigning work tasks and a routing configuration server for configuring operation or monitoring performance of a work router is disclosed. According to the embodiment the work router and configuration system may be software components operating on a network connected device for example a server or other network connected computing device and it should be appreciated that they may as appropriate according to a particular arrangement operate independently that is on separate physical devices such as in a distributed arrangement where interaction may occur over a network connection or jointly on a single device.

According to the embodiment a work router may receive work tasks from a plurality of clients such as contact centers individual devices or any other potential source of work information such as via communication over a network such as the Internet or other appropriate communications network. Work tasks may be any assignment that may be desired such as for example a particular inbound call from a customer as may be received from a contact center or a scheduled meeting between two parties as might be received from a business or enterprise client . Such work tasks may then be compared by the work router to any known or retrieved criteria such as for example checking known statistics pertaining to a contact center to see what agents are available what skills or training they have had how long they may have been waiting for a customer interaction or any other of a variety of relevant metrics. The work router may then send a work assignment to a resource based at least in part on the results of comparison performed such as returning a specific agent to route a customer interaction to .

According to the embodiment a resource may be any potential endpoint for a work assignment such as a human operator or a software or hardware device or service that may handle a work assignment and may vary according to the nature of a particular assignment. Exemplary resources may include the client itself such as an interactive voice response IVR system being assigned a work task such as for placing a call in a particular queue or a resource operated by the client such as giving an assignment to a particular agent in the contact center that the work task originated from or a resource not related to the client such as an agent in a different contact center or a third party assignment service as is described below. It should be appreciated that the destination for a work assignment may not be the same as the source of a work task for example in a distributed contact center arrangement such as a single corporation operating multiple separate contact centers and utilizing a single cloud based work router a contact center A may submit a work task and based on the results of comparison performed the work assignment may be sent to another contact center B for example if the optimal agent for the interaction is in contact center B or if a custom called contact center A after the close of business hours . Additionally and continuing with the exemplary contact center use case a work assignment may be given to a contact center in general such as to then be routed according to a contact center s normal operation for example based on internal call queuing protocols or to a specific agent such as when a work router is used to perform call queuing functions and no internal system is needed as may be appropriate according to a particular arrangement. It should be appreciated that such behavior may be configurable as described below and a single work router may perform a variety of functions or operate according to a variety of configurations based on a particular client or work task such that a single work router may facilitate operation for a variety of clients and resources that may have varying needs or preferences regarding operation for example one contact center may wish to perform internal call queuing and only utilize a work router for non customer interaction work tasks while another contact center may utilize a work router for all call queuing and interaction assignments . In this manner work routing may be made more efficient than ordinarily possible using in house solution that may be more limited in the scope of their assigning abilities. It should be further appreciated that not all communication between clients and a work router may be work tasks or assignments. For example a client may submit periodic status reports to a work router for use in routing operations such as contact center agent availability or other metrics or a resource that received a work assignment may send an acknowledgement of the assignment being received or a further acknowledgement when an assignment is completed. In this manner a work router may maintain a current model of client status and operations to further enhance operation and provide relevant and efficient routing service.

Further according to the embodiment operation of a work router may be configurable via a configuration server. Such configuration server may vary in nature such as website or other online interface or via a specific software component operating on a network connected computer or device or via a software application programming interface API for interaction with third party products or services however as conceived by the inventor a web interface is seen as ideal for providing the utility described herein. A user may interact with a configuration server such as by using a network connected device to interact with a web interface for such purposes as to view or alter configuration data for a work router for example to input new criteria to be used for comparison such as updating contact center agent skill sets or updating a work router when particular agents receive new training that may affect how work is assigned to them or to observe operational data relevant to a work router such as performance metrics of the router itself for example work task and assignment statistics such as number of tasks received from particular clients or number of assignments fulfilled . Any configuration information may be stored for future reference such as in a database or other storage medium such as integral or removable storage media operated by or connected to a configuration server . In this manner configuration information may be persistent facilitating consistent operation without repeated configuration by a user.

Further according to the embodiment machine learning may be utilized by a work router to enhance operations. For example as described above a work router may receive status updates or work assignment acknowledgements from clients. Such updates may include information pertaining to a particular work assignment such as length of time before completion results of completion such as whether or not a customer s issue was resolved or whether a successful sale was made or any other outcome according to a particular assignment or any other relevant information. A work router may then utilize such information in future routing decisions such as for example incorporating the results of work assignments in future comparisons such as to ensure that work is assigned to the ideal resource for completion. For example in a contact center use case an agent may have been assigned work that they were trained for but not particularly skilled at performing yielding poor results. In future routing this agent may be given lower priority as compared to others with similar training such that similar work assignments may be given to those agents more likely to yield positive results. Additionally machine learning may be implemented in the form of A B testing or experimental routing behaviors. For example a work router may choose to send a work assignment to a resource based not only on the results of comparison as described above but also with the intent of collecting results and other information to see how a resource performs for example routing a call to an agent for which no prior calls of this type have been routed . In this manner a degree of trial and error operation may be performed to attempt to discern unexpected results that may be used to improve operation and that might otherwise not have been realized. Such testing behavior may be configurable such as allowing a particular percentage of work assignments to be used for testing rather than strict comparison based routing and it should be appreciated that machine learning may also be used to improve operation of the testing itself for example a work router may find that the results of a particular test were undesirable and reduce the percentage of tests involving that resource or that work assignment type or alternately if a test yields positive results then more tests may be performed. In this manner not only may operations be manually configured as described above but they may also be seen to adapt and improve through continuous operation.

According to another preferred embodiment of the invention a method for adaptive work routing is disclosed.

The inventor has conceived and reduced to practice in a preferred embodiment of the invention a system and method for adaptive cloud based work routing.

One or more different inventions may be described in the present application. Further for one or more of the inventions described herein numerous alternative embodiments may be described it should be understood that these are presented for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not intended to be limiting in any sense. One or more of the inventions may be widely applicable to numerous embodiments as is readily apparent from the disclosure. In general embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice one or more of the inventions and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical software electrical and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the particular inventions. Accordingly those skilled in the art will recognize that one or more of the inventions may be practiced with various modifications and alterations. Particular features of one or more of the inventions may be described with reference to one or more particular embodiments or figures that form a part of the present disclosure and in which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments of one or more of the inventions. It should be understood however that such features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or figures with reference to which they are described. The present disclosure is neither a literal description of all embodiments of one or more of the inventions nor a listing of features of one or more of the inventions that must be present in all embodiments.

Headings of sections provided in this patent application and the title of this patent application are for convenience only and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any way.

Devices that are in communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. In addition devices that are in communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries logical or physical.

A description of an embodiment with several components in communication with each other does not imply that all such components are required. To the contrary a variety of optional components may be described to illustrate a wide variety of possible embodiments of one or more of the inventions and in order to more fully illustrate one or more aspects of the inventions. Similarly although process steps method steps algorithms or the like may be described in a sequential order such processes methods and algorithms may generally be configured to work in alternate orders unless specifically stated to the contrary. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be described in this patent application does not in and of itself indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of described processes may be performed in any order practical. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non simultaneously e.g. because one step is described after the other step . Moreover the illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto does not imply that the illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to one or more of the invention s and does not imply that the illustrated process is preferred. Also steps are generally described once per embodiment but this does not mean they must occur once or that they may only occur once each time a process method or algorithm is carried out or executed. Some steps may be omitted in some embodiments or some occurrences or some steps may be executed more than once in a given embodiment or occurrence.

When a single device or article is described it will be readily apparent that more than one device or article may be used in place of a single device or article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described it will be readily apparent that a single device or article may be used in place of the more than one device or article.

The functionality or the features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices that are not explicitly described as having such functionality or features. Thus other embodiments of one or more of the inventions need not include the device itself.

Techniques and mechanisms described or referenced herein will sometimes be described in singular form for clarity. However it should be noted that particular embodiments include multiple iterations of a technique or multiple instantiations of a mechanism unless noted otherwise. Process descriptions or blocks in figures should be understood as representing modules segments or portions of code which include one or more executable instructions for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. Alternate implementations are included within the scope of embodiments of the present invention in which for example functions may be executed out of order from that shown or discussed including substantially concurrently or in reverse order depending on the functionality involved as would be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Generally the techniques disclosed herein may be implemented on hardware or a combination of software and hardware. For example they may be implemented in an operating system kernel in a separate user process in a library package bound into network applications on a specially constructed machine on an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or on a network interface card.

Software hardware hybrid implementations of at least some of the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented on a programmable network resident machine which should be understood to include intermittently connected network aware machines selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in memory. Such network devices may have multiple network interfaces that may be configured or designed to utilize different types of network communication protocols. A general architecture for some of these machines may be disclosed herein in order to illustrate one or more exemplary means by which a given unit of functionality may be implemented. According to specific embodiments at least some of the features or functionalities of the various embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented on one or more general purpose computers associated with one or more networks such as for example an end user computer system a client computer a network server or other server system a mobile computing device e.g. tablet computing device mobile phone smartphone laptop and the like a consumer electronic device a music player or any other suitable electronic device router switch or the like or any combination thereof. In at least some embodiments at least some of the features or functionalities of the various embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented in one or more virtualized computing environments e.g. network computing clouds virtual machines hosted on one or more physical computing machines or the like .

Referring now to there is shown a block diagram depicting an exemplary computing device suitable for implementing at least a portion of the features or functionalities disclosed herein. Computing device may be for example any one of the computing machines listed in the previous paragraph or indeed any other electronic device capable of executing software or hardware based instructions according to one or more programs stored in memory. Computing device may be adapted to communicate with a plurality of other computing devices such as clients or servers over communications networks such as a wide area network a metropolitan area network a local area network a wireless network the Internet or any other network using known protocols for such communication whether wireless or wired.

In one embodiment computing device includes one or more central processing units CPU one or more interfaces and one or more busses such as a peripheral component interconnect PCI bus . When acting under the control of appropriate software or firmware CPU may be responsible for implementing specific functions associated with the functions of a specifically configured computing device or machine. For example in at least one embodiment a computing device may be configured or designed to function as a server system utilizing CPU local memory and or remote memory and interface s . In at least one embodiment CPU may be caused to perform one or more of the different types of functions and or operations under the control of software modules or components which for example may include an operating system and any appropriate applications software drivers and the like.

CPU may include one or more processors such as for example a processor from one of the Intel ARM Qualcomm and AMD families of microprocessors. In some embodiments processors may include specially designed hardware such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and so forth for controlling operations of computing device . In a specific embodiment a local memory such as non volatile random access memory RAM and or read only memory ROM including for example one or more levels of cached memory may also form part of CPU . However there are many different ways in which memory may be coupled to system . Memory may be used for a variety of purposes such as for example caching and or storing data programming instructions and the like.

As used herein the term processor is not limited merely to those integrated circuits referred to in the art as a processor a mobile processor or a microprocessor but broadly refers to a microcontroller a microcomputer a programmable logic controller an application specific integrated circuit and any other programmable circuit.

In one embodiment interfaces are provided as network interface cards NICs . Generally NICs control the sending and receiving of data packets over a computer network other types of interfaces may for example support other peripherals used with computing device . Among the interfaces that may be provided are Ethernet interfaces frame relay interfaces cable interfaces DSL interfaces token ring interfaces graphics interfaces and the like. In addition various types of interfaces may be provided such as for example universal serial bus USB Serial Ethernet Firewire PCI parallel radio frequency RF Bluetooth near field communications e.g. using near field magnetics 802.11 WiFi frame relay TCP IP ISDN fast Ethernet interfaces Gigabit Ethernet interfaces asynchronous transfer mode ATM interfaces high speed serial interface HSSI interfaces Point of Sale POS interfaces fiber data distributed interfaces FDDIs and the like. Generally such interfaces may include ports appropriate for communication with appropriate media. In some cases they may also include an independent processor and in some in stances volatile and or non volatile memory e.g. RAM .

Although the system shown in illustrates one specific architecture for a computing device for implementing one or more of the inventions described herein it is by no means the only device architecture on which at least a portion of the features and techniques described herein may be implemented. For example architectures having one or any number of processors may be used and such processors may be present in a single device or distributed among any number of devices. In one embodiment a single processor handles communications as well as routing computations while in other embodiments a separate dedicated communications processor may be provided. In various embodiments different types of features or functionalities may be implemented in a system according to the invention that includes a client device such as a tablet device or smartphone running client software and server systems such as a server system described in more detail below .

Regardless of network device configuration the system of the present invention may employ one or more memories or memory modules such as for example remote memory block and local memory configured to store data program instructions for the general purpose network operations or other information relating to the functionality of the embodiments described herein or any combinations of the above . Program instructions may control execution of or comprise an operating system and or one or more applications for example. Memory or memories may also be configured to store data structures configuration data encryption data historical system operations information or any other specific or generic non program information described herein.

Because such information and program instructions may be employed to implement one or more systems or methods described herein at least some network device embodiments may include nontransitory machine readable storage media which for example may be configured or designed to store program instructions state information and the like for performing various operations described herein. Examples of such nontransitory machine readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROM disks magneto optical media such as optical disks and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and perform program instructions such as read only memory devices ROM flash memory solid state drives memristor memory random access memory RAM and the like. Examples of program instructions include both object code such as may be produced by a compiler machine code such as may be produced by an assembler or a linker byte code such as may be generated by for example a Java compiler and may be executed using a Java virtual machine or equivalent or files containing higher level code that may be executed by the computer using an interpreter for example scripts written in Python Perl Ruby Groovy or any other scripting language .

In some embodiments systems according to the present invention may be implemented on a standalone computing system. Referring now to there is shown a block diagram depicting a typical exemplary architecture of one or more embodiments or components thereof on a standalone computing system. Computing device includes processors that may run software that carry out one or more functions or applications of embodiments of the invention such as for example a client application . Processors may carry out computing instructions under control of an operating system such as for example a version of Microsoft s Windows operating system Apple s Mac OS X or iOS operating systems some variety of the Linux operating system Google s Android operating system or the like. In many cases one or more shared services may be operable in system and may be useful for providing common services to client applications . Services may for example be Windows services user space common services in a Linux environment or any other type of common service architecture used with operating system . Input devices may be of any type suitable for receiving user input including for example a keyboard touchscreen microphone for example for voice input mouse touchpad trackball or any combination thereof. Output devices may be of any type suitable for providing output to one or more users whether remote or local to system and may include for example one or more screens for visual output speakers printers or any combination thereof. Memory may be random access memory having any structure and architecture known in the art for use by processors for example to run software. Storage devices may be any magnetic optical mechanical memristor or electrical storage device for storage of data in digital form. Examples of storage devices include flash memory magnetic hard drive CD ROM and or the like.

In some embodiments systems of the present invention may be implemented on a distributed computing network such as one having any number of clients and or servers. Referring now to there is shown a block diagram depicting an exemplary architecture for implementing at least a portion of a system according to an embodiment of the invention on a distributed computing network. According to the embodiment any number of clients may be provided. Each client may run software for implementing client side portions of the present invention clients may comprise a system such as that illustrated in . In addition any number of servers may be provided for handling requests received from one or more clients . Clients and servers may communicate with one another via one or more electronic networks which may be in various embodiments any of the Internet a wide area network a mobile telephony network a wireless network such as WiFi Wimax and so forth or a local area network or indeed any network topology known in the art the invention does not prefer any one network topology over any other . Networks may be implemented using any known network protocols including for example wired and or wireless protocols.

In addition in some embodiments servers may call external services when needed to obtain additional information or to refer to additional data concerning a particular call. Communications with external services may take place for example via one or more networks . In various embodiments external services may comprise web enabled services or functionality related to or installed on the hardware device itself. For example in an embodiment where client applications are implemented on a smartphone or other electronic device client applications may obtain information stored in a server system in the cloud or on an external service deployed on one or more of a particular enterprise s or user s premises.

In some embodiments of the invention clients or servers or both may make use of one or more specialized services or appliances that may be deployed locally or remotely across one or more networks . For example one or more databases may be used or referred to by one or more embodiments of the invention. It should be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art that databases may be arranged in a wide variety of architectures and using a wide variety of data access and manipulation means. For example in various embodiments one or more databases may comprise a relational database system using a structured query language SQL while others may comprise an alternative data storage technology such as those referred to in the art as NoSQL for example Hadoop Cassandra Google BigTable and so forth . In some embodiments variant database architectures such as column oriented databases in memory databases clustered databases distributed databases or even flat file data repositories may be used according to the invention. It will be appreciated by one having ordinary skill in the art that any combination of known or future database technologies may be used as appropriate unless a specific database technology or a specific arrangement of components is specified for a particular embodiment herein. Moreover it should be appreciated that the term database as used herein may refer to a physical database machine a cluster of machines acting as a single database system or a logical database within an overall database management system. Unless a specific meaning is specified for a given use of the term database it should be construed to mean any of these senses of the word all of which are understood as a plain meaning of the term database by those having ordinary skill in the art.

Similarly most embodiments of the invention may make use of one or more security systems and configuration systems . Security and configuration management are common information technology IT and web functions and some amount of each are generally associated with any IT or web systems. It should be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art that any configuration or security subsystems known in the art now or in the future may be used in conjunction with embodiments of the invention without limitation unless a specific security or configuration system or approach is specifically required by the description of any specific embodiment.

In various embodiments functionality for implementing systems or methods of the present invention may be distributed among any number of client and or server components. For example various software modules may be implemented for performing various functions in connection with the present invention and such modules may be variously implemented to run on server and or client components.

According to the embodiment clients may communicate with a cloud based work router for such purposes as to send work tasks or status reports. A work task may be any action or operation that may be desirable to assign to a resource regardless of the nature or scope of that task. For example when a customer calls a contact center answering the call and interacting with the customer might be a work task that would for example be routed to a contact center agent able to appropriately handle the call . If the customer needs to be contacted at a later time for example if they request a follow up call the requested outbound call might be another work task that would for example be assigned to an appropriate agent and optionally scheduled for a requested time or date . Performing any actions requested as a part of the customer interaction such as account changes or fulfilling a sale might be a further work task that would then be routed to an appropriate resource such as an account service specialist or a sales representative. In this manner it can be appreciated that work tasks may vary widely and a key function of a work router may be to determine the nature and needs of a particular work task and assign it accordingly. Similarly status reports may vary in nature and content such as periodic reports of contact center agent availability reports on system status such as notification if there is an issue with for example an IVR or a recording system updates on agent skills or training or any other such information that may be relevant to work routing operations. These updates may be utilized by a work router in making decisions such as how to assign work tasks for example when selecting a contact center agent to assign a customer interaction a work router might check any known agent skills and training to see who is qualified to handle the interaction as well as availability status to see who is available to receive a work assignment or who has been waiting the longest for one. In this manner it can be appreciated that a work router may perform functions common to contact centers or other use cases alleviating the need to maintain an internal system for such purposes.

Further according to the embodiment a configuration server may be utilized to configure or monitor operations or behavior of a cloud based work routing system . For example a user such as a designed administrator for a contact center may connect to a configuration server such as via a web interface or other interaction front end and establish preferences or parameters for operation. These configuration parameters may then be stored in a database and utilized in operations. For example a system utilized by a contact center may be configured to place priority on call handle time rather than number of sales such that in subsequent routing decisions calls may be routed preferentially to agents with more desirable call handle time metrics and fewer sales rather than those that may excel at sales but have less desirable handle time. In this manner operations may be tailored to a particular client s tastes easily without having to manually configure or maintain detailed routing strategies as are commonly utilized in the art with internal routing solutions.

As illustrated a customer may call a contact center establishing an inbound call . This call may be received by a contact center s interactive voice response IVR system as is common in the art. Traditionally an IVR may send an inbound call along with any information known such as the phone number a customer is calling from or any information a customer supplied through IVR prompts to a router which may then assign the call to an agent . Such operation generally requires the maintenance of detailed routing rules for use by a router and any alterations to the router s behavior necessitates updating these rules manually. Additionally because of the manual nature of these rules and their maintenance routing is static and does not automatically adapt or adjust its behavior via machine learning.

In an alternate arrangement utilizing a cloud based work router alongside an internal router as may be utilized by a contact center that already ahs an established routing system but wishes to utilize the additional features of cloud based routing according to the invention an IVR may send call information to a cloud based work router rather than an internal router as described above. A cloud router may then compare any received information against configured preferences or stored status information such as agent availability skills and training and previously stored preferences such as which agent metrics to prioritize as described above and send a work assignment i.e. instructions for the routing of the call to an internal router for handling. The router may then carry out those instructions and assign the call to an agent selected by a cloud router . In this arrangement it can be appreciated that a cloud router may provide benefits such as easy configuration such as by storing basic preferences as described previously and utilizing known information regarding resource status rather than detailed routing strategies and existing routing systems may be utilized to handle the actual call routing based on instructions received from the cloud router .

In a third exemplary arrangement utilizing exclusively cloud based routing and no internal routing systems an IVR may send both information pertaining to an inbound call such as caller information and other relevant details as described previously as well as the connection information for the call itself to a cloud router . Cloud router may then utilize available information such as call details received from an IVR known status information such as agent availability skills and training and any known configuration preferences to make a routing decision. Based on this routing decision cloud router may then send a work assignment to a specific selected agent instructing them to handle the customer s call and providing the connection i.e. the call is connected to the agent s workstation and they are instructed to answer it . In this arrangement it can be appreciated that a cloud router may further provide the functions of work routing and may directly assign work to resources such as contact center agents without the need for internal routing services to be used as a middleman .

The skilled person will be aware of a range of possible modifications of the various embodiments described above. Accordingly the present invention is defined by the claims and their equivalents.

