---

title: Device registration using device fingerprint
abstract: Embodiments of the invention are directed to apparatuses, methods and computer program products for registering a device. An exemplary apparatus is configured to: determine a device accesses an application; determine whether the device is a trusted device; in response to determining the device is not a trusted device, forward an approval request; and in response to receiving approval, register the device based on a device fingerprint associated with the device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09124583&OS=09124583&RS=09124583
owner: BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
number: 09124583
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140509
---
There is a need to register and validate a device through which a transaction e.g. a financial transaction is being performed or executed.

In some embodiments an apparatus is provided for registering a device. The apparatus comprises a memory a processor and a module stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to determine a device accesses an application determine whether the device is a trusted device in response to determining the device is not a trusted device forward an approval request and in response to receiving approval register the device based on a device fingerprint associated with the device.

In some embodiments the device is associated with a first level employee and wherein the determining the device accesses the application comprises validating authentication credentials associated with the first level employee.

In some embodiments determining whether the device is a trusted device comprises determining whether the device has a device fingerprint or whether the device fingerprint has changed noticeably.

In some embodiments the approval request is forwarded to a second device wherein the second device is associated with a second level employee wherein the second level employee is associated with a higher level than a first level employee associated with the device.

In some embodiments the apparatus validates authentication credentials input by the second level employee onto the second device.

In some embodiments the device fingerprint comprises at least one of a resolution of the device an operating system of the device a browser on the device or a plug in installed on the device.

In some embodiments the approval request is forwarded to at least one of a financial institution system or an authentication system.

In some embodiments a method is provided for registering a device. The method comprises determining using a computing device processor a device accesses an application determining using a computing device processor whether the device is a trusted device in response to determining the device is not a trusted device forwarding using a computing device processor an approval request and in response to receiving approval registering using a computing device processor the device based on a device fingerprint associated with the device.

In some embodiments a computer program product is provided for registering a device. The computer program product comprises a non transitory computer readable medium comprising a set of codes for causing a computer to determine a device accesses an application determine whether the device is a trusted device in response to determining the device is not a trusted device forward an approval request and in response to receiving approval register the device based on a device fingerprint associated with the device.

Embodiments of the present invention now may be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure may satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Embodiments of the invention are directed to apparatuses methods and computer program products for registering and or validating a device. The present invention enables determination of whether a transaction e.g. a financial institution transaction is originating from an authorized device. The present invention runs on a wide variety of operating platforms and requires minimal maintenance efforts from an entity managing and or utilizing the authorized device. Additionally the preset invention may not require the entity to install any software on the authorized device. Still additionally the present invention is cost effective and easy to roll out onto a multitude of devices.

A first level employee e.g. a lower level employee such as a sales associate may access an application on a device for the first time. When the first level employee accesses the application the first level employee may be requested to enter authentication credentials e.g. a username a password or the like . The authentication credentials are verified by the system that hosts the application to determine whether the first level employee is permitted to access the application. As used herein a first level employee is an employee associated with a level less than a threshold level. On a first access of the application from the device the device requires approval from a second level employee e.g. a manager or any other employee who is associated with an employee level greater than the threshold level . Therefore when the device accesses the application a system that hosts the application determines that the device is accessing the application determines that the device is not a trusted device and therefore a device approval request may be forwarded from the device to the second level employee or a device associated with the second level employee . The second level employee logs onto the system e.g. the system that hosts the application or some other financial institution authentication system and adds the device as a trusted device. In some embodiments in order to add the device as a trusted device the second level employee logs onto the system via the second level employee s device. In other embodiments in order to add the device as a trusted device the second level employee needs to log onto the system via the device itself i.e. the first level employee s device .

Once the device is added as a trusted device a device token is placed in the device wherein the device token acts as a second level of authentication. The device token is created based on information obtained from the device. For example the information includes at least one of a resolution e.g. a screen resolution of the device an operating system including the operating system version of the device a browser including the browser s version on the device which accesses the application plug ins including each plug in s version installed on the device or the like. Any subsequent interaction of the device with a system that hosts the application are intercepted and validated to ensure that the interactions are emerging from a trusted device. If during the interception the system that hosts the application determines that the device cannot be validated because of a noticeable change in device fingerprint the system may forward another approval request to the second level employee. As used herein a noticeable change in device fingerprint is when the change in device fingerprint is equal to or greater than a threshold level of change. For example a noticeable change may be triggered when at least one cookie in the device is cleared or deleted or when the operating system version or browser version of the device is changed e.g. upgraded or downgraded . A non noticeable change in device fingerprint is when the change in device fingerprint is less than the threshold level of change.

In order to create a device fingerprint the device may forward information to any system described herein e.g. the first system second system or the like . The system described herein refers to the system that hosts the application or some other financial institution system such as a financial institution authentication system. The device may forward the information based on a request received from the system or without any receiving any request from the system. For example the request may be for particular types of information from the device e.g. operating system information browser information plug in information or the like . The information may be combined by the system to form the device fingerprint. In other embodiments the device may itself combine the information to form the device fingerprint and send the device fingerprint to the system.

Additionally the system may hash the device fingerprint and encrypt the device fingerprint into a string e.g. 32 64 bit string using a secured application programming interface API . The system may then send the encrypted device fingerprint e.g. an encrypted value along with an additional parameter back to the device. Together the encrypted value and the additional parameter form a device token cookie. This device token cookie is validated by the system described herein on a subsequent interaction between the device and the system. In other embodiments the hashing and encrypting processes may be performed by the device itself and the device may itself create and store the device token cookie described herein.

In other embodiments the present invention may be directed to site to site virtual private network VPN . In such embodiments the access of the application from the device is validated via a VPN network. In still other embodiments the present invention may be directed to certificate based authentication. In such embodiments the access of the application from the device is validated by the system based on a certificate received from the device. Additionally in some embodiments the system may validate access by validating information associated with the certificate or by sending a return certificate to the device.

Referring now to presents an exemplary process flow for device registration. At block the process flow comprises determining a device accesses an application. At block the process flow comprises determining whether the device is a trusted device. At block the process flow comprises in response to determining the device is not a trusted device forwarding an approval request. At block the process flow comprises in response to receiving approval registering the device based on a device fingerprint associated with the device.

Referring now to presents another exemplary process flow for device registration. At block an application is accessed by a first device. The first device may be a point of sale device or a kiosk associated with a first level employee e.g. a sales associate at a retailer . The application may be a credit application or any other financial institution application. This access of the application is detected by a first system e.g. a financial institution credit system . At block the application request is forwarded to a second system to determine if the first device is an authorized device. The first device may be an authorized device if the use of the first device for the credit application has been previously authorized by the first system and or the second system. The second system may be a financial institution authentication system. At block the second system determines whether the first device is authorized to access the application. If the first device is not authorized display of an authentication page on the first device or another device associated with a second level employee is initiated at block . The authentication page enables a second level employee e.g. an employee such as a manager who has a higher status level than the first level employee to provide authentication credentials e.g. a username and password and add the first device as a trusted device. If the device is authorized the process flow moves to the device validation process of .

If the device is authorized the second system causes the first device to initiate display of an authentication page at block . At block authentication credentials are entered by a second level employee i.e. a second level employee . The second level employee either enters the credentials on the first device associated with the first level employee or a second device associated with the second level employee. At block the second system determines whether the authentication credentials are valid. If the authentication credentials are valid at block a dashboard is displayed on the device on which the authentication credentials were entered with an option to add the first device as a trusted device. At block a selection is received to add the first device as a trusted device. At block the second system adds the device as a trusted device and redirects the first device to display an application page associated with the application e.g. the credit application . In order to add the first device as a trusted device device fingerprint information may also be collected from the first device as described herein. At block the first device displays the application page and the first user may execute a transaction using the application on the first device. Additionally at block the first device stores a device token. Additionally at block the first device stores a device token. The device token may have been generated by at least one of the first system the second system or the first device.

Referring now to presents an exemplary process flow for device validation. At block the process flow comprises determining a device accesses an application. At block the process flow comprises determining whether the device is a trusted device based on a device fingerprint associated with the device and or based on authentication credentials received from the device . At block the process flow comprises in response to determining the device is a trusted device creating an authenticated session. At block the process flow comprises enabling performance of a transaction using the device during the authenticated session.

Referring now to presents another exemplary process flow for device validation. At block an application is accessed by a first device as described herein e.g. with respect to . This access of the application is detected by a first system as described herein e.g. with respect to . The application may also be the application described with respect to . At block the application request is forwarded to a second system as described herein e.g. with respect to . At block the second system determines whether the device is authorized to access the application. If the device is authorized at block the second system creates a session e.g. an authenticated session or validated session and returns an authentication or identification or validation success status to the first system. The first device may be authorized based on device fingerprint information received from the first device and or authentication credentials received from the first device e.g. a first level employee s authentication credentials . If the device is not authorized the process flow moves to the device registration process of .

After the execution of block the first system redirects the first device to an application page at block . Subsequently a transaction page is displayed at block and a transaction is performed or executed e.g. by the first level employee on the transaction page at block . At block the first system determines whether the session is still valid or not expired. For example the session may be valid for a predetermined period or after a predetermined number of performed transactions or may expire after a predetermined period of inactivity. If the session is still valid and not expired the first system prompts a fresh device validation at block . Any feature described with respect to any of the process flows described herein may be applicable to any other process flow. Additionally each of the process flows described herein may be performed or executed either singly or in combination by one or more of the devices systems or apparatuses described herein.

Referring now to presents an exemplary block diagram of the network environment for implementing the process flow described herein in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. As illustrated the environment includes a network a first device a first system and a second system . As shown in the first device the first system and the second system are each operatively and selectively connected e.g. via one or more wired or wireless mechanisms to the network which may include one or more separate networks.

Each of the first device the first system and the second system is a computing device that comprises a communication interface a processor a memory and a module stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to perform the various processes described herein. Each communication interface described herein enables communication with other apparatuses via the network .

Each processor described herein generally includes circuitry for implementing audio visual and or logic functions. For example the processor may include a digital signal processor device a microprocessor device and various analog to digital converters digital to analog converters and other support circuits. Control and signal processing functions of the apparatus in which the processor resides may be allocated between these devices according to their respective capabilities. The processor may also include functionality to operate one or more software programs based at least partially on computer executable program code portions thereof which may be stored for example in a memory.

Each memory may include any computer readable medium. For example memory may include volatile memory such as volatile random access memory RAM having a cache area for the temporary storage of information. Memory may also include non volatile memory which may be embedded and or may be removable. The non volatile memory may additionally or alternatively include an EEPROM flash memory and or the like. The memory may store any one or more of pieces of information and data used by the apparatus in which it resides to implement the functions of that system.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention the term module with respect to an apparatus may refer to a hardware component of the apparatus a software component of the apparatus or a component of the apparatus that includes both hardware and software. As used herein a module may include one or more modules where each module may reside in separate pieces of hardware or software. As used herein an apparatus may alternatively be referred to as a system or a device. 

Although many embodiments of the present invention have just been described above the present invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Also it will be understood that where possible any of the advantages features functions devices and or operational aspects of any of the embodiments of the present invention described and or contemplated herein may be included in any of the other embodiments of the present invention described and or contemplated herein and or vice versa. In addition where possible any terms expressed in the singular form herein are meant to also include the plural form and or vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise. Accordingly the terms a and or an shall mean one or more even though the phrase one or more is also used herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art in view of this disclosure the present invention may include and or be embodied as an apparatus including for example a system apparatus machine device computer program product and or the like as a method including for example a business method computer implemented process and or the like or as any combination of the foregoing. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention may take the form of an entirely business method embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code stored procedures in a database or the like an entirely hardware embodiment or an embodiment combining business method software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system or apparatus. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product that includes a computer readable storage medium having one or more computer executable program code portions stored therein. As used herein a processor which may include one or more processors may be configured to perform a certain function in a variety of ways including for example by having one or more general purpose circuits perform the function by executing one or more computer executable program code portions embodied in a computer readable medium and or by having one or more application specific circuits perform the function.

It will be understood that any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may include but is not limited to a non transitory computer readable medium such as a tangible electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared and or semiconductor system device and or other apparatus. For example in some embodiments the non transitory computer readable medium includes a tangible medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM and or some other tangible optical and or magnetic storage device. In other embodiments of the present invention however the computer readable medium may be transitory such as for example a propagation signal including computer executable program code portions embodied therein.

One or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of the present invention may include object oriented scripted and or unscripted programming languages such as for example Java Perl Smalltalk C SAS SQL Python Objective C JavaScript and or the like. In some embodiments the one or more computer executable program code portions for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention are written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming languages and or similar programming languages. The computer program code may alternatively or additionally be written in one or more multi paradigm programming languages such as for example F .

Some embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of apparatus and or methods. It will be understood that each block included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and or combinations of blocks included in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams may be implemented by one or more computer executable program code portions. These one or more computer executable program code portions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer and or some other programmable data processing apparatus in order to produce a particular machine such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute via the processor of the computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the steps and or functions represented by the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

The one or more computer executable program code portions may be stored in a transitory and or non transitory computer readable medium e.g. a memory or the like that can direct instruct and or cause a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the computer executable program code portions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction mechanisms which implement the steps and or functions specified in the flowchart s and or block diagram block s .

The one or more computer executable program code portions may also be loaded onto a computer and or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer and or other programmable apparatus. In some embodiments this produces a computer implemented process such that the one or more computer executable program code portions which execute on the computer and or other programmable apparatus provide operational steps to implement the steps specified in the flowchart s and or the functions specified in the block diagram block s . Alternatively computer implemented steps may be combined with and or replaced with operator and or human implemented steps in order to carry out an embodiment of the present invention.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other changes combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that various adaptations modifications and combinations of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

