---

title: Power supply device, image forming apparatus, and voltage output method
abstract: According to an aspect of the present invention, a power supply device includes: a DC power supply that outputs a DC voltage; an AC power supply that outputs any one of the DC voltage and a superimposed voltage being the DC voltage with an AC voltage superimposed thereon; and a bypass capacitor that charges a part of a voltage that is output from the AC power supply. The DC power supply starts outputting the DC voltage in a constant voltage mode and, when a predetermined condition is satisfied, switches from the constant voltage mode to a constant current mode to output the DC voltage in the constant current mode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09465348&OS=09465348&RS=09465348
owner: RICOH COMPANY, LTD.
number: 09465348
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20140313
---
The present application claims priority to and incorporates by reference the entire contents of Japanese Patent Application No. 2013 054182 filed in Japan on Mar. 15 2013 and Japanese Patent Application No. 2014 006077 filed in Japan on Jan. 16 2014.

The present invention relates generally to power supply devices image forming apparatuses and voltage output methods.

An electrophotographic image forming apparatus typically forms an image on a recording medium recording paper by forming an electrostatic latent image on an image carrier that is uniformly charged developing the electrostatic latent image with toner to form a toner image and transferring and fixing the obtained toner image onto the recording paper.

Meanwhile recording paper generally has a surface roughness. Toner is less easily transferred to depressions than to projections. Accordingly when an image is to be formed on recording paper having a highly rough surface toner can fail to be transferred to depressions causing the image to disadvantageously have density inconsistencies such as white spots.

To overcome this disadvantage for example Japanese Laid open Patent Application No. 2012 42835 discloses the following technique. That is a DC power supply and an AC power supply are series connected. A voltage applied to a transfer unit to transfer an image onto recording paper is switched using a relay between a DC voltage and a DC AC superimposed voltage depending on a degree of surface roughness of the recording paper.

However such a conventional technique as that described above is disadvantageous in that rise time of a DC voltage that is output from series connected power supplies is longer than a DC voltage that is output from a single DC power supply.

Under the circumstances there is a need for power supply devices image forming apparatuses and voltage output methods capable of reducing voltage rise time.

It is an object of the present invention to at least partially solve the problems in the conventional technology.

According to the present invention there is provided a power supply device comprising a direct current DC power supply that outputs a DC voltage an alternating current AC power supply that outputs any one of the DC voltage and a superimposed voltage being the DC voltage with an AC voltage superimposed thereon and a bypass capacitor that charges a part of a voltage that is output from the AC power supply wherein the DC power supply starts outputting the DC voltage in a constant voltage mode and when a predetermined condition is satisfied switches from the constant voltage mode to a constant current mode to output the DC voltage in the constant current mode.

The present invention also provides an image forming apparatus including a power supply device wherein the power supply device comprises a direct current DC power supply that outputs a DC voltage an alternating current AC power supply that outputs any one of a superimposed voltage and the DC voltage the superimposed voltage being the DC voltage with an AC voltage superimposed thereon and a bypass capacitor that charges a part of a voltage that is output from the AC power supply wherein the DC power supply starts outputting the DC voltage in a constant voltage mode and when a predetermined condition is satisfied switches from the constant voltage mode to a constant current mode to output the DC voltage in the constant current mode.

The present invention also provides a voltage output method comprising a first output step that outputs a direct current DC voltage in a constant voltage mode and when a predetermined condition is satisfied switches from the constant voltage mode to a constant current mode to output the DC voltage in the constant current mode and a second output step that outputs any one of the DC voltage and a superimposed voltage being the DC voltage with an alternative current voltage superimposed thereon.

The above and other objects features advantages and technical and industrial significance of this invention will be better understood by reading the following detailed description of presently preferred embodiments of the invention when considered in connection with the accompanying drawings.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. Although the embodiments are described by way of examples in each of which an image forming apparatus according to an aspect of the present invention is embodied as an electrophotographic multiple color image forming apparatus or more specifically a printing apparatus that forms an image by overlaying images of four color components yellow Y magenta M cyan C and black K on a sheet of recording medium hereinafter recording sheet embodiments are not limited thereto. The image forming apparatus according to an aspect of the present invention is applicable to any apparatus that forms an image by electrophotography irrespective of whether the image is a monochrome image or a multiple color image. For example the image forming apparatus is applicable to electrophotographic copiers and multifunction peripherals MFPs . Meanwhile an MFP is an apparatus that has at least two functions of a printing function a copying function a scanner function and a facsimile function.

Configurations of a printing apparatus according to an embodiment of the present invention are described below.

As illustrated in the image forming units Y M C and K are arranged in this order along the intermediate transfer belt from upstream in a moving direction which is the direction indicated by arrow a of the intermediate transfer belt .

Each of the image forming units M C and K includes identical constituent elements as those of the image forming unit Y. The image forming unit M forms a magenta toner image by performing the image forming process. The image forming unit C forms a cyan toner image by performing the image forming process. The image forming unit K forms a black toner image by performing the image forming process. Hereinafter the constituent elements of the image forming unit Y are mainly described. Each constituent element of the image forming units M C and K identical to that of the image forming unit Y is denoted by a like reference numeral with its reference symbol Y replaced with a corresponding one of M C and K see and repeated description is omitted.

The photosensitive element Y is an image carrier and driven to rotate by a photosensitive element driving device not shown in a direction indicated by arrowed line b . The photosensitive element Y is for instance an organic photoconductor that is 60 mm in outer diameter. Each of the photosensitive elements M C and K is similarly driven to rotate by a photosensitive element driving device not shown in the direction indicated by arrow b .

The photosensitive element K for black may be configured to be driven to rotate independently of the photosensitive elements Y M and C for the other colors. This configuration allows driving only the photosensitive element K for black to rotate when a monochrome image is to be formed while driving the photosensitive elements Y M C and K to rotate simultaneously when a full color image is to be formed.

First in the charging step the electrostatic charging device Y uniformly electrostatically charges a surface of the photosensitive element Y that is rotated. More specifically the electrostatic charging device Y applies a superimposed voltage which is a DC voltage with an AC voltage superimposed thereon to a charging roller not shown . The charging roller is a roller shaped conductive elastic member for example. The electrostatic charging device Y thus causes electrical discharge to occur directly between the charging roller and the photosensitive element Y thereby causing the photosensitive element Y to bear charges of a predetermined polarity e.g. negative charges.

Subsequently in the illuminating step the illuminating device not shown emits optically modulated laser light L onto the charged surface of the photosensitive element Y to form an electrostatic latent image on the surface of the photosensitive element Y. As a result a portion on the surface of the photosensitive element Y having a lower absolute value of the potential because of being irradiated with the laser light L forms an electrostatic latent image image area the other portion having an absolute value of the potential that is kept high because of not being irradiated with the laser light L forms a background portion no image area .

Subsequently in the developing step the developing device Y develops the electrostatic latent image formed on the photosensitive element Y with yellow toner thereby forming a yellow toner image on the photosensitive element Y.

The developing device Y includes a container Y a developing sleeve Y housed in the container Y and screw members Y housed in the container Y. The container Y contains a two component developer of yellow toner and carrier. The developing sleeve Y is a developer carrier and arranged to face the photosensitive element Y through an opening of the container Y. The screw members Y are stirring members that convey the developer while stirring the same. The screw members Y are arranged in the container Y on a side from which the developer is to be supplied in other words on a developing sleeve side and on a side to receive supply from a toner replenishing device not shown or in other words on a supply receiving side. The screw members Y are rotatably supported on the container Y via bearings not shown .

Subsequently in the transfer step the primary transfer roller Y transfers the yellow toner image formed on the photosensitive element Y to the intermediate transfer belt . Meanwhile a slight amount of not transferred toner remains on the photosensitive element Y even after the toner image has been transferred.

The primary transfer roller Y is for instance an elastic roller including a conductive foam layer and arranged so that the primary transfer roller Y presses a back surface of the intermediate transfer belt into contact with and against the photosensitive element Y. A bias generated in a constant current mode is applied to the elastic roller as a primary transfer bias. The primary transfer roller Y is for example 16 mm in outer diameter and made up of a metal core that is 10 mm in diameter and the foam layer having a resistance R of approximately 3 10 . The resistance R of the foam layer is calculated using the Ohm s law equation R V I where I is an electric current that flows through the foam layer when V a voltage of 1 000 V is applied to the metal core which is grounded 30 mm in outer diameter and pressed against the foam layer with 10 N of the primary transfer roller Y.

Subsequently in the cleaning step the cleaning device Y wipes off the not transferred toner remaining on the photosensitive element Y. The cleaning device Y includes a cleaning blade Y and a cleaning brush Y. The cleaning blade Y cleans the surface of the photosensitive element Y by contacting the photosensitive element Y in a manner to oppose the rotating direction of the photosensitive element Y. The cleaning brush Y cleans the surface of the photosensitive element Y by rotating in a direction opposite to the rotating direction of the photosensitive element Y while contacting the photosensitive element Y.

Referring back to the intermediate transfer belt is an endless belt placed over and between a plurality of rollers including the support rollers and and the secondary transfer part opposite roller in a stretched manner. The intermediate transfer belt is revolved in the direction indicated by arrow a by the support roller or that is driven to rotate. Toner images are transferred onto the intermediate transfer belt one by one to be overlaid on one another in a manner that the image forming unit Y transfers a yellow toner image first subsequently the image forming unit M transfers a magenta toner image thereon the image forming unit C transfers a cyan toner image thereon and the image forming unit K transfers a black toner image thereon. As a result full color toner images a full color image are formed on the intermediate transfer belt . The intermediate transfer belt conveys the formed full color toner images to a nip between the secondary transfer part opposite roller and the secondary transfer roller . The intermediate transfer belt is an endless belt made of polyimide in which carbon black is dispersed and is 20 to 200 m in thickness preferably approximately 60 m 10to 10 cm in volume resistivity preferably 10to 10 cm more preferably approximately 10 cm 10to 10 cm in surface resistivity preferably 10to 10 cm . The volume resistivity is a value measured with a resistivity meter HIRESTA using an HRS probe both manufactured by MITSUBISHI CHEMICAL ANALYTEC CO. LTD at 100 V for 10 sec. The surface resistivity is a value measured with HIRESTA using an HRS probe both manufactured by MITSUBISHI CHEMICAL ANALYTEC CO. LTD at 500 V for 10 sec. The support roller is grounded.

A plurality of sheets of recording paper is contained in a stacked manner in each of trays not shown of the sheet cassette . Paper type and size of the recording paper may vary from tray to tray where the recording paper is contained. In this embodiment the recording paper is ordinary paper or leather textured paper having high surface roughness for example however the recording paper is not limited thereto.

The sheet feeding roller is in contact with an uppermost sheet hereinafter recording sheet P of the recording paper in one of the trays of the sheet cassette and feeds the recording sheet P with which the sheet feeding roller is in contact.

The pair of conveying rollers conveys the recording sheet P fed by the sheet feeding roller to the secondary transfer nip between the secondary transfer part opposite roller and the secondary transfer roller in the direction indicated by arrow c at predetermined timing.

The secondary transfer part opposite roller and the secondary transfer roller that form the secondary transfer nip not shown therebetween transfer the full color toner images conveyed on the intermediate transfer belt together at one time onto the recording sheet P conveyed by the pair of conveying rollers .

The secondary transfer part opposite roller is for example 24 mm in outer diameter and made up of a metal core that is 16 mm in diameter and a conductive modified nitrile butadiene rubber NBR layer. The resistance R of the conductive modified NBR layer is 10 to 10 preferably 104.0 . The secondary transfer roller is for example 24 mm in outer diameter and made up of a metal core that is 14 mm in diameter and a conductive modified NBR layer. The resistance R of the conductive modified NBR layer is 10 to 10 preferably 10 to 10 . The volume resistivity of the secondary transfer roller is obtained as an average of resistivity values measured during one minute in which a rotation measurement method is performed with the following conditions 

The secondary transfer power supply for a transfer bias is connected to the secondary transfer part opposite roller . The secondary transfer power supply an example of a power supply device applies a voltage to the secondary transfer part opposite roller so that the full color toner images are transferred to the recording sheet P at the secondary transfer nip. More specifically the secondary transfer power supply applies a DC voltage hereinafter sometimes referred to as DC bias alone or a superimposed voltage hereinafter sometimes referred to as superimposed bias which is the DC voltage on which an AC voltage is superimposed to the secondary transfer part opposite roller according to user s setting. This bias develops a potential difference between the secondary transfer part opposite roller and the secondary transfer roller and generates a voltage that urges toner from the intermediate transfer belt toward the recording sheet P. The full color toner images can be transferred to the recording sheet P. The potential difference in this embodiment is assumed as the potential of the secondary transfer part opposite roller the potential of the secondary transfer roller .

The fixing device applies heat and pressure onto the recording sheet P onto which the full color toner images have been transferred thereby fixing the full color images onto the recording sheet P. The recording sheet P onto which the full color toner images have been fixed is delivered to the exterior of the printing apparatus .

The DC output control unit receives from the power supply control unit a DC PWM power width modulation signal DC bias output signal that specifies an output level output value of the DC voltage. The DC output control unit receives from the DC output detecting unit an output value of the DC voltage transformer detected by the DC output detecting unit . The DC output control unit controls the DC voltage transformer via the DC driving unit so that the output value of the DC voltage transformer achieves the output value specified by the DC PWM signal based on a duty ratio of the DC PWM signal and the output value of the DC voltage transformer that are fed to the DC output control unit .

The DC output control unit also receives from the power supply control unit a switch signal that instructs switching between the constant current mode and a constant voltage mode. The DC output control unit switches between the constant current mode and the constant voltage mode according to the switch signal fed to the DC output control unit . In this embodiment the DC power supply mainly operates in the constant current mode to maintain a toner transfer ratio constant however the DC power supply operates in the constant voltage mode under some situations to reduce rise time of the DC voltage.

The DC voltage transformer driven by the DC driving unit outputs a DC high voltage DC bias that is negative in polarity.

The DC output detecting unit detects the output value of the DC high voltage output from the DC voltage transformer and outputs the detected output value to the DC output control unit . The DC output detecting unit also outputs the detected output value to the power supply control unit as an FB DC signal feedback signal . This is because the FB DC signal is used by the power supply control unit in controlling the duty ratio of the DC PWM signal so as to prevent degradation of transfer performance due to environmental conditions or load.

The AC output control unit receives from the power supply control unit an AC PWM signal AC bias output signal that specifies an output level output value of the AC voltage. The AC output control unit receives from the AC output detecting unit an output value of the AC voltage transformer detected by the AC output detecting unit . The AC output control unit controls the AC voltage transformer via the AC driving unit so that the output value of the AC voltage transformer achieves the output value specified by the AC PWM signal based on a duty ratio of the AC PWM signal and the output value of the AC voltage transformer that are fed to the AC output control unit .

The AC driving unit receives an AC CLK signal that specifies a frequency of the AC output voltage. The AC driving unit drives the AC voltage transformer under control of the AC output control unit and based on the AC CLK signal. The AC driving unit can control an output waveform generated by the AC voltage transformer so as to have a frequency specified by the AC CLK signal by controlling the AC voltage transformer based on the AC CLK signal.

The AC voltage transformer is driven by the AC driving unit to generate an AC voltage. The AC voltage transformer then produces a superimposed voltage by superimposing the generated AC voltage on the DC high voltage output from the DC voltage transformer and outputs applies the produced superimposed voltage superimposed bias to the secondary transfer part opposite roller . When no AC voltage is to be generated the AC voltage transformer outputs applies the DC high voltage DC bias output from the DC voltage transformer to the secondary transfer part opposite roller . The voltage the superimposed voltage or the DC voltage applied to the secondary transfer part opposite roller returns to the DC power supply via the secondary transfer roller .

The AC output detecting unit detects the output value of the AC voltage output from the AC voltage transformer and outputs the detected output value to the AC output control unit . The AC output detecting unit also outputs the detected output value to the power supply control unit as an FB AC signal feedback signal . This is because the FB AC signal is used by the power supply control unit in controlling the duty ratio of the AC PWM signal so as to prevent degradation of transfer performance due to environmental conditions or load.

In this embodiment the AC power supply operates in a constant voltage mode. However the mode in which the AC power supply is to operate is not limited thereto and the AC power supply may alternatively operate in a constant current mode.

The waveform of the AC voltage generated by the AC voltage transformer the AC power supply may be either sinusoidal or rectangular. In this embodiment it is assumed that the AC voltage has a short wavelength and a rectangular waveform. This is because the AC voltage having a short wavelength and a rectangular waveform can contribute to further enhancement of image quality.

The faulty output detecting unit which is arranged on an output line from the secondary transfer power supply outputs an SC signal to the power supply control unit at occurrence of an output fault such as a line to ground fault. The power supply control unit can control the secondary transfer power supply to stop outputting a high output voltage based on this SC signal.

The DC power supply receives at a switching circuit the DC  PWM signal and the switch signal from the power supply control unit . When the switch signal instructs to switch to the constant voltage CV mode in this embodiment when the switch signal is at high state the DC  PWM signal is output to a current control circuit comparator . When the switch signal instructs to switch to the constant current CC mode in this embodiment when the switch signal is at low state the DC  PWM signal is output to a voltage control circuit comparator .

The integral of the DC  PWM signal output to the current control circuit is calculated and input to the current control circuit comparator . The value of the integral of the DC  PWM signal is used as a reference voltage in the current control circuit . A DC current detecting circuit detects a DC current output from the DC power supply on the output line from the secondary transfer power supply and inputs the detected output value of the DC current to the current control circuit . When the detected DC current is small relative to the reference voltage the current control circuit causes a DC driving circuit to actively drive the DC high voltage transformer when the detected DC current is large relative to the reference voltage the current control circuit causes the DC driving circuit to restrict driving of the DC high voltage transformer. The DC power supply maintains the DC voltage at a constant current in this way.

The integral of the DC  PWM signal fed to the voltage control circuit is calculated and input to the voltage control circuit . The value of the integral of the DC  PWM signal is used as a reference voltage in the voltage control circuit . A DC voltage detecting circuit detects the DC voltage output from the DC power supply and inputs the detected output value of the DC voltage to the voltage control circuit comparator . When the detected output value of the DC voltage is small relative to the reference voltage the voltage control circuit causes the DC driving circuit to actively drive the DC high voltage transformer when the detected output value of the DC voltage is equal to or larger than the reference voltage upper limit the voltage control circuit causes the DC driving circuit to restrict driving of the DC high voltage transformer. The DC power supply maintains the DC voltage at a constant voltage in this way. A DC voltage detecting circuit feeds back the output value of the DC voltage detected by the DC voltage detecting circuit to the power supply control unit as the FB DC signal.

The output voltage generated by the DC high voltage transformer which includes a primary winding N1 DC and a secondary winding N2 DC and is driven by the DC driving circuit in accordance with the control of the current control circuit and the voltage control circuit is smoothed by a diode and a capacitor. Thereafter the smoothed output voltage is input to the AC power supply via an AC power supply input node as a DC voltage and applied to a secondary winding N2 AC of the AC high voltage transformer.

The AC power supply receives the AC PWM signal from the power supply control unit . The AC PWM signal is input to a voltage control circuit comparator . The value of the input AC PWM signal serves as a reference voltage in the voltage control circuit . An AC voltage detecting circuit predicts an output value of the AC voltage from a voltage induced by mutual induction in a primary winding N3 AC of the AC high voltage transformer and inputs the predicted output value of the AC voltage to the voltage control circuit . The reason for making this prediction is that because this AC voltage is superimposed on the DC voltage it is difficult to detect the output AC voltage of the AC power supply in isolation on the output line from the secondary transfer power supply . When the detected AC voltage is small relative to the reference voltage the current control circuit causes an AC driving circuit to actively drive the AC high voltage transformer when the detected AC voltage is large relative to the reference voltage the voltage control circuit causes the AC driving circuit to restrict driving of the AC high voltage transformer. The AC power supply maintains the AC voltage at a constant voltage in this way.

An AC current detecting circuit detects an AC current on a low voltage side of an AC bypass capacitor which is on the output line from the secondary transfer power supply and inputs the detected output value of the AC current to a current control circuit comparator . The current control circuit causes the AC driving circuit to restrict driving of the AC high voltage transformer when the detected output value of the AC current is equal to or larger than the upper limit. An AC current detecting circuit feeds back the detected output value of the AC current to the power supply control unit as the FB AC signal.

The AC driving circuit operates in accordance with the AC CLK signal fed from the power supply control unit and a logical AND of the voltage control circuit and the current control circuit and causes the AC high voltage transformer to generate an output voltage having a same period as the AC CLK signal.

An AC voltage induced in a primary winding N1 AC of the AC high voltage transformer driven by the AC driving circuit is superimposed on the DC voltage that is applied to the secondary winding N2 AC and output applied to the secondary transfer part opposite roller as the superimposed voltage via a high voltage output node . However when the AC power supply is not driven the DC voltage applied to the secondary winding N2 AC is output applied as it is to the secondary transfer part opposite roller via the high voltage output node .

A faulty output detecting circuit outputs the SC signal to the power supply control unit upon detecting an output fault such as a line to ground fault on the output line from the secondary transfer power supply .

Characteristics of the AC bypass capacitor of the secondary transfer power supply are described below.

The purpose of the AC bypass capacitor is to charges a part of the AC voltage output from the AC power supply in order to prevent the output AC voltage from sneaking into the DC power supply . The output DC voltage has high impedance and can be superimposed to the AC power supply with low loss.

However at startup of the DC power supply because charge is not stored in the AC bypass capacitor the AC bypass capacitor has considerably low impedance. Accordingly charge output as the DC voltage from the DC power supply undesirably flows into the AC bypass capacitor . For this reason the DC power supply cannot supply sufficient electric power to the secondary transfer part opposite roller until charge is stored in the AC bypass capacitor . This results in delay in rise time.

To overcome this disadvantage in this embodiment during rising of the DC voltage the DC power supply operates in the constant voltage mode to store charge in the AC bypass capacitor quickly thereby reducing rise time of the DC voltage. This embodiment thus allows reducing start up time after power on and intervals between sheets in printing thereby achieving power saving and increasing print productivity.

The engine control unit performs engine control e.g. control related to image forming and includes an I O control unit a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and a CPU .

The I O control unit controls inputs and outputs of various types of signals. For example the I O control unit controls inputs and outputs of signals exchanged between the engine control unit and the secondary transfer power supply .

The ROM an example of a storage unit is a non volatile read only storage device memory . The ROM stores various types of computer programs to be executed in the printing apparatus and data for use in various types of processing executed in the printing apparatus . The ROM may be implemented in a flash memory or the like so that data can be written to the ROM . The ROM stores for example specifying information that specifies switch to constant voltage timing at which the DC power supply is to switch to the constant voltage mode and switch to constant current timing an example of predetermined timing at which the DC power supply is to switch to the constant current mode. The specifying information specifies the switch to constant voltage timing and the switch to constant current timing with reference to a print start reference signal indicating a print start reference.

Operations to be performed by the CPU include accepting an input of the print start reference signal and accepting settings entered by a user from an operating unit not shown such as an operation panel. For instance when a recording sheet to be printed is ordinary paper a user may input applying a high voltage with only the dc bias from the operating unit as the user s setting about high voltage application. When the recording sheet is leather textured paper having a high surface roughness the user may input applying a high voltage with the superimposed bias as the user s setting about high voltage application. The CPU causes the secondary transfer power supply to apply the high voltage via the I O control unit in accordance with the user s setting. The CPU includes the power supply control unit .

When causing the secondary transfer power supply to output the high voltage the DC voltage or the superimposed voltage the power supply control unit controls the DC voltage output from the DC power supply based on the specifying information stored in the ROM . More specifically the power supply control unit causes the DC power supply to switch to the constant voltage mode or to the constant current mode based on the specifying information.

Hereinafter difference between a situation in which the DC power supply outputs a DC voltage by operating only in the constant current mode and a situation in which the DC power supply outputs a DC voltage while switching between the constant voltage mode and the constant current mode is described below with reference to .

Meanwhile rise denotes transition from a state 0 kV where there is no potential difference to a state where there is a potential difference irrespective of whether the potential difference is positive or negative. For reference fall denotes transition from a state where there is a potential difference irrespective of whether the potential difference is positive or negative to the state 0 kV where there is no potential difference.

In the example illustrated in 200 ms is required from when the DC power supply starts outputting the DC bias until when a value of the bias achieves a target value 10 kV .

This is because as described earlier charge output as the DC bias from the DC power supply undesirably flows into the AC bypass capacitor until charge is stored in the AC bypass capacitor . In particular in the constant current mode the value of the constant current imposes an upper limit on an amount of charge output as the DC bias therefore it takes longer time until charge is stored in the AC bypass capacitor .

In contrast in the example illustrated in when the print start reference signal that is input is accepted by the CPU the power supply control unit measures time elapsed theresince and obtains the specifying information to specify the switch to constant voltage timing and the switch to constant current timing.

When the switch to constant voltage timing is met the power supply control unit causes the I O control unit to output a switch signal switch signal at high state instructing to switch to the constant voltage CV mode to the DC power supply . Upon receiving the switch signal instructing to switch to the constant voltage CV mode from the I O control unit the DC power supply switches from the constant current mode to the constant voltage mode.

Subsequently simultaneously when the DC power supply completes switching from the constant current mode to the constant voltage mode the power supply control unit causes the I O control unit to stop outputting a reverse bias output signal to the DC power supply and causes the I O control unit to output the DC bias output signal to the DC power supply . Upon receiving the DC bias output signal from the I O control unit the DC power supply starts outputting the DC bias in the constant voltage mode.

Also in this case charge output as the DC voltage from the DC power supply flows into the AC bypass capacitor until charge is stored in the AC bypass capacitor . However in the constant voltage mode the amount of charge output as the DC bias can be theoretically infinite. Therefore charge can be stored in the AC bypass capacitor in a short period of time.

Subsequently when the switch to constant current timing is met the power supply control unit causes the I O control unit to output a switch signal switch signal at low state instructing to switch to the constant current CC mode to the DC power supply . The switch to constant current timing corresponds to timing at which storing charge in the AC bypass capacitor is to complete and can be determined from experimental data or the like. Upon receiving the switch signal instructing to switch to the constant current CC mode from the I O control unit an example of a situation where a predetermined condition is satisfied the DC power supply switches from the constant voltage mode to the constant current mode and outputs the DC bias.

In the example illustrated in because the DC bias is output while switching to the constant voltage mode and to the constant current mode the value of the DC bias achieves the target value 10 kV in 50 ms. Thus rise time of the DC bias is successfully reduced.

First the power supply control unit causes the I O control unit to start outputting the reverse bias output signal to the DC power supply Step S .

The power supply control unit stays on standby until the switch to constant voltage timing according to the specifying information is met No in Step S .

Subsequently when the switch to constant voltage timing is met Yes in Step S the power supply control unit causes the I O control unit to output the switch signal instructing to switch to the constant voltage CV mode to the DC power supply . Upon receiving the switch signal instructing to switch to the constant voltage CV mode from the I O control unit the DC power supply switches from the constant current mode to the constant voltage mode Step S .

Subsequently simultaneously when the DC power supply completes switching from the constant current mode to the constant voltage mode the power supply control unit causes the I O control unit to stop outputting the reverse bias output signal to the DC power supply Step S and causes the I O control unit to output the DC bias output signal to the DC power supply Step S . Upon receiving the DC bias output signal from the I O control unit the DC power supply starts outputting the DC bias in the constant voltage mode.

Subsequently the power supply control unit stays on standby until the switch to constant current timing according to the specifying information is met No in Step S .

Subsequently when the switch to constant current timing is met Yes in Step S the power supply control unit causes the I O control unit to output the switch signal instructing to switch to the constant current CC mode to the DC power supply . Upon receiving the switch signal instructing to switch to the constant current CC mode from the I O control unit the DC power supply switches from the constant voltage mode to the constant current mode and outputs the DC voltage Step S .

As described above according to this embodiment outputting the DC voltage is started in the constant voltage mode then after switching to the constant current mode the DC voltage is output in the constant current mode. Accordingly according to this embodiment even when a power supply is configured to apply a DC voltage output from a DC power supply to a bypass capacitor until charge is stored in the bypass capacitor charge can be stored in the bypass capacitor quickly thereby reducing rise time of the DC voltage. Consequently this embodiment allows reducing start up time after power on and intervals between sheets in printing thereby achieving power saving and increasing print productivity.

In the specific embodiment described above the timing at which storing charge the AC bypass capacitor is to complete is determined from experimental data or the like in advance and switching from the constant voltage mode to the constant current mode is performed based on this timing. Alternatively the embodiment may be modified such that switching from the constant voltage mode to the constant current mode is performed based on a result of detecting an amount of charge stored in the AC bypass capacitor .

The voltage detecting circuit an example of a detecting unit detects the amount of charge stored in the AC bypass capacitor by detecting the voltage across the AC bypass capacitor . When detecting that the amount of charge stored in the AC bypass capacitor is equal to or larger than a predetermined amount the voltage detecting circuit outputs an FB C signal feedback signal to the power supply control unit .

Upon receiving the FB C signal from the voltage detecting circuit the power supply control unit causes the I O control unit to output the switch signal instructing to switch to the constant current CC mode to the DC power supply . Upon receiving the switch signal instructing to switch to the constant current CC mode from the I O control unit the DC power supply switches from the constant voltage mode to the constant current mode and outputs the DC bias.

In the first modification it is not necessary that the switch to constant current timing is specified by the specifying information so long as the switch to constant voltage timing is specified.

The specific embodiment described above may be modified such that the power supply control unit overwrites the specifying information stored in the ROM based on externally input information. For example the embodiment may be modified such that when a maintenance person inputs information with which the specific information is to be overwritten from the operating unit not shown the power supply control unit overwrites the specific information based on the input information.

The length of time it takes until charge is stored in the AC bypass capacitor is affected by environmental conditions such as the temperature and the humidity of a location where the printing apparatus is installed. The second modification allows adapting to varying charge storing time which varies depending on the environment of the installed location.

The specific embodiment described above may be configured such that the specifying information is overwritten based on at least any one of the temperature and the humidity of the AC bypass capacitor .

The length of time it takes until charge is stored in the AC bypass capacitor is affected by environmental conditions such as the temperature and the humidity of the location where the printing apparatus is installed. The third modification allows automatically adapting to varying charge storing time which varies depending on the environment of the installed location.

The specific embodiment described above may be modified to use a DC CCPWM signal for the constant current CC mode and a DC CVPWM signal for the constant voltage CV mode.

The integral of the DC  CVPWM signal output from the power supply control unit and the switch signal output from the power supply control unit are input to a voltage control circuit . The DC  CVPWM signal is constantly at high state in the fourth modification. The value of the integral of the DC  CVPWM signal is used as a reference voltage in the voltage control circuit . When the switch signal instructs to switch to the constant voltage CV mode in this embodiment when the switch signal at high state and the DC  CVPWM signal is at high state if the output value of the DC voltage is small relative to the reference voltage the voltage control circuit causes the DC driving circuit to actively drive the DC high voltage transformer if the output value of the DC voltage is equal to or larger than the reference voltage upper limit the voltage control circuit causes the DC driving circuit to restrict driving of the DC high voltage transformer. In short in the fourth modification the voltage control circuit operates in the constant voltage mode if a logical AND of the switch signal and the DC  CVPWM signal is at high state i.e. 1 .

In the fourth modification illustrated in the I O control unit of the power supply control unit constantly outputs the DCCV bias output signal to the DC power supply .

When the switch to constant voltage timing is met the power supply control unit causes the I O control unit to output the switch signal switch signal at high state instructing to switch to the constant voltage CV mode to the DC power supply . When the switch signal instructing to switch to the constant voltage CV mode is fed to the DC power supply from the I O control unit and the DCCV bias output signal is at high state the DC power supply switches from the constant current mode to the constant voltage mode and starts outputting a DC bias according to the DCCV bias output signal.

Subsequently simultaneously when the DC power supply completes switching from the constant current mode to the constant voltage mode the power supply control unit causes the I O control unit to stop outputting the reverse bias output signal to the DC power supply and causes the I O control unit to output the DCCC bias output signal to the DC power supply .

Subsequently when the switch to constant current timing is met the power supply control unit causes the I O control unit to output the switch signal switch signal at low state instructing to switch to the constant current CC mode to the DC power supply . Upon receiving the switch signal instructing to switch to the constant current CC mode from the I O control unit the DC power supply switches from the constant voltage mode to the constant current mode and outputs the DC bias according to the DCCC bias output signal.

As described above according to the fourth modification even when timing of the switch signal fluctuates with respect to the DCCC bias output signal for example when timing of the switch signal is early relative to the DCCC bias output signal it is ensured that operations are performed in the constant voltage CV mode during when the switch signal is instructing to switch to the constant voltage CV mode. As a result influence of the fluctuation in the switch signal can be reduced.

The fourth modification has been described by way of example in which the DC  CVPWM signal at high state specifies the output level 3.3 V of the constant voltage as determined by the circuit configuration of the secondary transfer power supply . Alternatively there may be employed a design in which the output level of the constant voltage is specified by the DC  CVPWM signal at low state as determined by a circuit configuration of the secondary transfer power supply . In other words the output level of the constant voltage may be specified by either the DC  CVPWM signal at high state or the DC  CVPWM signal at low state.

In the specific embodiment described above the transfer bias is applied from the secondary transfer power supply which is for the transfer bias connected to the secondary transfer part opposite roller . A toner image can be as well successfully transferred to a recording sheet even when the embodiment is modified such that the transfer bias is applied from the secondary transfer power supply which is for the transfer bias connected to the secondary transfer roller . A toner image can be also as well successfully transferred to a recording sheet even when for example the embodiment is modified such that the printing apparatus includes a plurality of the secondary transfer power supplies which are for the transfer bias and one of the secondary transfer power supplies is connected to the secondary transfer part opposite roller and the other is connected to the secondary transfer roller .

In the embodiment described above timing as to when to output the high voltage is specified by software alternatively the timing may be specified by hardware.

The embodiment may be modified such that the secondary transfer power supply includes a DC power supply for cleaning.

The embodiments and the modifications described above are for illustration purposes only. The inventors have found through experimentation using other image forming apparatuses and in various image forming environments that the present invention can be implemented even with various modifications made to the configurations and processing conditions.

Although the invention has been described with respect to specific embodiments for a complete and clear disclosure the appended claims are not to be thus limited but are to be construed as embodying all modifications and alternative constructions that may occur to one skilled in the art that fairly fall within the basic teaching herein set forth.

