---

title: Method for sharing broadcast channel information and electronic device thereof
abstract: A broadcast channel information sharing method in an electronic device and the electronic device thereof are provided. An operation method in an electronic device includes creating a request message of requesting to share broadcast channel information, the request message comprising one or more of user information, location information, and habit information, transmitting, by the electronic device, the request message to a network server, receiving, by the electronic device, a response message corresponding to the request message from the network server, and extracting, by the electronic device, broadcast channel information of another electronic device comprised in the response message and sharing the extracted broadcast channel information with the other electronic device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09538248&OS=09538248&RS=09538248
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09538248
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20141119
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Nov. 19 2013 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial number 10 2013 0140496 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a method for sharing broadcast channel information and the electronic device thereof.

Digital broadcasting can be divided into terrestrial broadcasting providing multi channel broadcasting cable broadcasting satellite broadcasting and the like. A digital broadcasting operator provides electronic program guide information as additional information about a digital broadcasting program. The electronic program guide information can be abbreviated as Electronic Program Guide EPG information. The EPG information is provided through a vacant frequency band of the digital broadcasting an additional channel or the like. The EPG information can include various broadcasting information such as a broadcasting program a broadcast channel a broadcasting time broadcasting content cast member information and the like.

A digital broadcasting receiver of various types such as a Digital TeleVision D TV a set top box an Internet Protocol TV IP TV and the like receives the EPG information and stores the EPG information in a non volatile memory. Thereafter the EPG information is provided to a user through a user interface. The user can handle a remote controller to search or select any broadcasting program and the like displayed within an EPG screen and simply and conveniently perform watching scheduled recording or the like.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present disclosure.

Aspects of the present disclosure are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present disclosure is to provide a broadcast channel information sharing method of an electronic device and the electronic device thereof in which an electronic device of various types such as a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC or the like can communicate with a cloud computing based network server and receive and share broadcast channel information of another electronic device associated with any one or more of user information location information and habit information.

In accordance with an aspect of the present disclosure an operation method of an electronic device is provided. The operation method includes the processes of creating a request message of requesting to share broadcast channel information the request message comprising any one or more of user information location information and habit information transmitting by the electronic device the request message to a network server receiving by the electronic device a response message corresponding to the request message from the network server and extracting by the electronic device broadcast channel information of another electronic device comprised in the response message and sharing the extracted broadcast channel information with the other electronic device.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure an electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a communication module configured to communicate with a network server and a processor configured to control the communication module. The processor is further configured to create a request message of requesting to share broadcast channel information the request message comprising any one or more of user information location information and habit information transmit the request message to the network server receive a response message corresponding to the request message from the network server and extract broadcast channel information of another electronic device comprised in the response message and share the extracted broadcast channel information with the other electronic device.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the disclosure will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses various embodiments of the present disclosure.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of various embodiments of the present disclosure as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the various embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms and words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meanings but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the present disclosure. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of various embodiments of the present disclosure is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can be a device including a telecommunication function. For example the electronic device can be one or a combination of more of various electronic devices such as a smart phone a tablet Personal Computer PC a mobile phone a video phone an electronic book e book reader a desktop PC a laptop PC a netbook computer a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a Portable Multimedia Player PMP an MPEG Audio Layer 3 MP3 player a mobile medical instrument an electronic bracelet an electronic necklace an appcessory a camera a wearable device an electronic clock a wrist watch a smart home appliance e.g. a refrigerator an air conditioner a cleaner an artificial intelligence robot a TV a Digital Video Disk DVD player an audio system an oven a microwave a washing machine an air cleaner an electronic frame and the like various medical instruments e.g. Magnetic Resonance Angiography MRA Magnetic Resonance Imaging MRI Computerized Tomography CT a scanning machine an ultrasound machine and the like a navigation device a Global Positioning System GPS receiver an Event Data Recorder EDR a Flight Data Recorder FDR a set top box a TV box e.g. Samsung HomeSync Apple TV or Google TV an electronic dictionary a car infotainment device electronic equipment for ships e.g. a navigation device for ship a gyrocompass and the like avionics a security instrument electronic clothes an electronic locking system a camcorder a game console a Head Mounted Display HMD a flat panel display device an electronic album a part of furniture or building structure including the telecommunication function an electronic board an electronic signature receiving device a projector and the like. It is apparent to those skilled in the art that the electronic device according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure is not limited to the aforementioned instruments.

Referring to the electronic device can include a bus a processor a memory a user input module a display module and a communication module . The bus can be a circuit connecting the aforementioned constituent elements with one another and forwarding communication e.g. control message among the aforementioned constituent elements. The processor can for example receive instructions from the aforementioned other constituent elements e.g. the memory the user input module the display module the communication module and the like through the bus decipher the received instructions and execute operation or data processing according to the deciphered instructions.

The memory can store an instruction or data which is received from the processor or the other constituent elements e.g. the user input module the display module the communication module and the like or is created by the processor or the other constituent elements. The memory can include for example programming modules such as a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API an application and the like. The aforementioned respective programming modules can be comprised of software firmware hardware or a combination of at least two or more of software firmware and hardware.

The kernel can control or manage system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory and the like used for executing operations or functions implemented in the other programming modules for example the middleware the API and the application . The kernel can provide an interface capable of accessing and controlling or managing the individual constituent element of the electronic device in the middleware the API or the application .

The middleware can perform a relay role such that the API or the application can communicate and exchange data with the kernel . In addition in relation with work requests received from the plurality of applications the middleware can for example perform load balancing for the work request by a method of allotting at least one application among the plurality of application the order of priority for using the system resources e.g. the bus the processor the memory or the like of the electronic device and the like.

The API is an interface of enabling the application to control a function provided by the kernel or the middleware . The API can include for example at least one interface or function for file control window control image processing character control or the like.

The user input module can for example receive an input of an instruction or data from a user and forward the instruction or data to the processor or the memory through the bus . The display module can display an image a picture data or the like to the user.

The communication module can connect communication between the electronic device and another electronic device . The communication module can support a certain short range communication protocol e.g. Wireless Fidelity WiFi Bluetooth BT or Near Field Communication NFC and certain network communication e.g. the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network a Plain Old Telephone System POTS or the like . The electronic device may communicate with another electronic device and or a server via the network . The electronic devices and each can be the same e.g. the same type of device as the electronic device or can be a different e.g. a different type of device.

Referring to the hardware can be for example the electronic device illustrated in . The hardware include one or more processors a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a communication module a sensor module a user input module a display module an interface an audio codec a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The processor e.g. the processor can include one or more Application Processors APs and or one or more Communication Processors CPs . The processor can be for example the processor illustrated in . Although illustrates that the AP and the CP are included within the processor the AP and the CP can be included within different IC packages respectively. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the AP and the CP can be included within one IC package.

The AP can drive an operating system or an application program and control a plurality of hardware or software constituent elements connected to the AP and perform processing and operation of various data including multimedia data. The AP can be for example implemented as a System on Chip SoC . According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the processor can further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU not shown . The CP can perform a function of managing a data link and converting a communication protocol in communication between an electronic device e.g. the electronic device including the hardware and other electronic devices connected through a network. The CP can be implemented as a SoC for example.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the CP can perform at least part of a multimedia control function. The CP can perform terminal distinction and authorization within a communication network using a subscriber identity module e.g. the SIM card . In addition the CP can provide services such as voice call video call a text message packet data or the like to a user. In addition the CP can control data transmission reception of the communication module . Although illustrates the constituent elements such as the CP the power management module the memory and the like as constituent elements separate from the AP according to an embodiment the AP can be implemented to include at least some e.g. the CP of the aforementioned constituent elements.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the AP or the CP can load to a volatile memory an instruction or data received from a non volatile memory connected to each of the AP and the CP or at least one of other constituent elements and process the loaded instruction or data. In addition the AP or the CP can store in the non volatile memory data received from at least one of the other constituent elements or created by at least one of the other constituent elements. The SIM card can be a card implementing the subscriber identity module and can be inserted into a slot provided in a specific location of the electronic device. The SIM card can include unique identification information e.g. Integrated Circuit Card ID ICCID or subscriber information e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory can include an internal memory and or an external memory . The memory can be for example the memory illustrated in . The internal memory can include for example at least one of a volatile memory e.g. a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static Random Access Memory SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM and the like and or a non volatile memory e.g. a One Time PROM OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask Read Only Memory ROM a flash ROM a Not AND NAND flash memory a Not OR NOR flash memory and the like .

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the internal memory can also take a form of Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory can further include for example Compact Flash CF Secure Digital SD Micro Secure Digital Micro SD Mini Secure Digital Mini SD extreme Digital xD a memory stick and the like.

The communication module can include a wireless communication module and or a Radio Frequency RF module . The communication module can be for example the communication module illustrated in . The wireless communication module can include for example WiFi BT Global Positioning System GPS and NFC . For example the wireless communication module can provide a wireless communication function using radio frequency.

Additionally or alternatively the wireless communication module can include a network interface e.g. a LAN card a modem or the like for connecting the hardware with a network e.g. the Internet a LAN a WAN a telecommunication network a cellular network a satellite network a POTS or the like . The RF module can take charge of transmission reception of data for example transmission reception of an RF signal or a called electronic signal. The RF module can include though not illustrated for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter a Low Noise Amplifier LNA or the like.

In addition the RF module can further include a component for transmitting receiving an electromagnetic wave on a free space in a wireless communication for example a conductor a conductive line or the like.

The sensor module can include for example at least one of a gesture sensor A a gyro sensor B an air pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a Red Green Blue RGB sensor H a biological sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J a light sensor K and a Ultraviolet UV sensor M. The sensor module can measure a physical quantity or detect an activation state of the electronic device and convert measured or detected information into an electrical signal.

Additionally or alternatively the sensor module can include for example an Electronic nose E nose sensor not shown an Electromyography EMG sensor not shown an Electroencephalogram EEG sensor not shown an Electrocardiogram ECG sensor not shown a fingerprint sensor not shown and the like. The sensor module can further include a control circuit for controlling at least one or more sensors provided therein.

The user input module can include a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key and an ultrasonic input device . The user input module can be for example the user input module illustrated in . The touch panel can recognize for example a touch input in at least one method among a capacitive method a pressure sensitive method an infrared method and an ultrasonic method.

In addition the touch panel can also include a controller not shown . In the capacitive method not only direct touch but also proximity recognition is possible. The touch panel can also include a tactile layer. In this case the touch panel can provide a tactile response to a user. The digital pen sensor can be implemented for example in the same or similar method with receiving a user s touch input or using a separate sheet for recognition. The key can be for example a keypad or a touch key.

The ultrasonic input device is a device capable of confirming data by detecting a sound wave with a microphone e.g. a microphone of the electronic device and can perform wireless recognition through a pen creating an ultrasonic signal.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the hardware can also receive a user input from an external device e.g. a network a computer or a server connected to the hardware using the communication module .

The display module can include a panel and a hologram . The display module can be for example the display module illustrated in . The panel can be for example a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AMOLED or the like. The panel can be implemented to be flexible transparent or wearable for example. The panel can be also constructed as one module together with the touch panel . The hologram can show a three dimensional image in the air by using interference of light. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the display module can further include a control circuit for controlling the panel and the hologram .

The interface can include for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a Universal Serial Bus USB a projector and a D subminiature D sub . Additionally or alternatively the interface can include for example Secure Digital SD Multi Media Card MMC not shown and Infrared Data Association IrDA not shown .

The audio codec can convert a voice and an electric signal interactively. The audio codec can convert for example voice information that is inputted or outputted through a speaker a receiver an earphone the microphone and the like.

The camera module is a device capable of taking an image and a video. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the camera module can include one or more image sensors e.g. a front lens or a rear lens an Image Signal Processor ISP not shown and a flash LED not shown .

The power management module can manage power of the hardware . Though not illustrated the power management module can include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC and a battery gauge.

The PMIC can be mounted for example within an integrated circuit or a SoC semiconductor. A charging method can be divided into wired and wireless charging method. The charger IC can charge a battery and can prevent the inflow of overvoltage or overcurrent from an electric charger. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the charger IC can include a charger IC for at least one of a wired charging method and a wireless charging method. As an example the wireless charging method may include a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method an electromagnetic method and the like. Additional circuits for wireless charging for example circuits of a coil loop a resonance circuit a rectifier and the like can be added.

The battery gauge can measure for example a level of the battery a voltage in charging an electric current and a temperature. The battery can create electricity and supply a power source. The battery can be for example a rechargeable battery.

The indicator can display a specific state of the hardware or a part e.g. the AP thereof for example a booting state a message state a charging state and the like.

The motor can convert an electrical signal into a mechanical vibration. A Microcontroller Unit MCU not shown can control the sensor module .

Though not illustrated the hardware can include a processing device e.g. a GPU for mobile TV support. The processing device for mobile TV support can process for example standard media data of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB a media flow and the like.

The names of the aforementioned constituent elements of the hardware according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can be varied according to the kind of the electronic device. The hardware according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure can include at least one of the aforementioned constituent elements and can omit some constituent elements or further include additional other constituent elements. In addition some of the constituent elements of the hardware according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure can be coupled and constructed as one entity and identically perform the functions of the corresponding constituent elements of before being coupled.

Referring to the programming module can be included e.g. stored in the electronic device e.g. the memory illustrated in . At least part of the programming module can be constructed by software firmware hardware or a combination of at least two or more of software firmware and hardware. The programming module can include an Operating System OS implemented in hardware e.g. the hardware and controlling resources related to the electronic device e.g. the electronic device or various applications e.g. the application driven on the operating system. For example the operating system can be Android iPhone OS iOS Windows Symbian Tizen Badda or the like.

The programming module can include a kernel a middleware an API and an application . The kernel e.g. the kernel can include a system resource manager and a device driver . The system resource manager can perform control of a system resource allocation thereof recovery thereof and the like. In addition according to various embodiments of the present disclosure the device driver can include an Inter Process Communication IPC driver not shown .

The middleware can include a plurality of modules previously implemented to provide a function commonly required by the application . In addition the middleware can provide a function through the API such that the application can make efficient use of a restricted system resource within the electronic device. For example as illustrated in the middleware e.g. the middleware can include at least one of a runtime library an application manager a window manager a multimedia manager a resource manager a power manager a database manager a package manager a connectivity manager a notification manager a location manager a graphic manager and a security manager .

The runtime library can include for example a library module used by a compiler to add a new function through a programming language while the application is executed. According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the runtime library can perform a function of input output memory management arithmetic function and the like.

The application manager can manage for example a life cycle of at least one application among the applications .

The multimedia manager can determine a format necessary for playing various media files and perform encoding or decoding of a media file using a codec suitable to a corresponding format.

The resource manager can manage a resource such as a source code of at least any one application among the applications a memory a storage space and the like.

The power manager can operate together with a Basic Input Output System BIOS and the like to manage a battery or power source and provide power information and the like necessary for the operation.

The database manager can manage to create search or change a database to be used in at least one application among the applications .

The package manager can manage installation or updating of an application which is distributed in a form of a package file.

The connectivity manager can manage for example wireless connection such as WiFi Bluetooth and the like.

The notification manager can display or notify an event such as an arrival message an appointment a proximity notification and the like in a way not giving a disturbance to a user.

The graphic manager can manage a graphic effect to be provided to the user or a user interface related to this.

The security manager can provide a general security function necessary for system security user authentication and the like.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure if the electronic device e.g. the electronic device has a phone function the middleware can further include a telephony manager not shown for managing a voice or video call function of the electronic device. The middleware can create and use a new middleware module through a combination of various functions of the aforementioned internal constituent element modules. The middleware can provide a module specialized by kind of an operating system so as to provide a differentiated function.

In addition the middleware can dynamically remove some of the existing constituent elements or add new constituent elements. Accordingly the middleware can omit some of the constituent elements stated in an embodiment of the present disclosure or further include other constituent elements or substitute with constituent elements of different names performing similar functions.

The API e.g. the API is a set of API programming functions and can be provided to have other construction in accordance to an operating system. For example in a case of Android or iOS the API can provide for example one API set by platform and in a case of Tizen the API can provide for example two or more API sets.

The application e.g. the application can for example include a preloaded application or a third party application. At least part of the programming module can be implemented by an instruction stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium. When the instruction is executed by one or more processors e.g. the processor the one or more processors perform a function corresponding to the instruction. The application may be or otherwise include one or more of a home application a dialer application a short messaging service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS application an instant messaging IM application a browser application a camera application an alarm application a contacts application a voice dial application an email application a calendar application a media player application an album application a clock application and or the like.

The computer readable storage medium e.g. a non transitory computer readable storage medium can be for example the memory . At least part of the programming module can be for example implemented e.g. executed by the processor . At least part of the programming module can for example include a module a program a routine an instruction set a process or the like for performing one or more functions. The names of the constituent elements of the programming module e.g. the programming module according to various embodiments of the present disclosure can be varied in accordance to the kind of an operating system. In addition the programming module according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure can include at least one or more of the aforementioned constituent elements or omit some of the aforementioned constituent elements or further include additional other constituent elements.

An operation principle of various embodiments of the present disclosure will be described herein below with reference to the accompanying drawings. In describing the various embodiments of the present disclosure below well known functions or constructions are not described in detail because a description of such well known functions or constructions would obscure the disclosure in unnecessary detail. In addition terms described below which are defined considering functions in the present disclosure can be modified in accordance to user and operator s intention or practice. Therefore the definition should be given on the basis of the content throughout the present specification.

A broadcast channel information sharing method of an electronic device and the electronic device thereof according to various embodiments of the present disclosure are described below in detail. The electronic device according to the various embodiments of the present disclosure can include the constituent elements illustrated in .

Referring to an electronic device of various types such as a smart phone a tablet PC or the like can display digital broadcast channel information and the like through an Electronic Program Guide EPG screen in which a User Interface UI is possible.

The EPG screen can display on a user interface screen in which user selection is possible a list in which a thumbnail picture representing each broadcasting program a broadcasting program name and the like are linked as one pair. However the electronic device may or may not have a tuner for receiving digital broadcasting. Without the tuner the electronic device may be unable to receive EPG information provided through digital broadcasting.

The electronic device without the tuner communicates with a cloud computing based network server and receives and shares broadcast channel information of another electronic device associated with any one or more of user information location information and habit information. The user information includes information for identifying a user of the electronic device. The location information includes information for identifying a current location of the electronic device. The habit information can include a watching channel that the user of the electronic device has watched a prefer channel or the like.

A user of a first electronic device to which various embodiments of the present disclosure are applied can receive broadcast channel information of another electronic device possessed by self for example another electronic device such as an IP TV with a tuner and the like from the cloud computing based network server and share the received broadcast channel information of another electronic device as broadcast channel information of the first electronic device. In addition the user of the first electronic device can receive broadcast channel information of another electronic device located in the same area as a current area in which the first electronic device is located or an adjacent area of an allowed range from the cloud computing based network server and share the received broadcast channel information of the other electronic device as broadcast channel information of the first electronic device.

In addition the user of the first electronic device can receive broadcast channel information of an electronic device possessed by any user who has the same habit as the user of the first electronic device own broadcast watching habit or a similar habit within an allowed range such as a watching channel a prefer channel or the like from the cloud computing based network server and share the received broadcast channel information as broadcast channel information of the first electronic device.

Referring to it is assumed that a first electronic device such as a smart phone a tablet PC or the like to which an embodiment of the present disclosure is applied is a client A. If the client A does not have a tuner for receiving digital broadcasting the client A cannot receive EPG information provided through the digital broadcasting. The client A creates a request message of requesting to share broadcast channel information in accordance to a user s request and the like and then transmits the request message to a cloud computing based network server.

The cloud computing signifies an Internet based computer technology. The cloud signifies a complicated infrastructure of a computer network. The cloud computing signifies a use environment that a user can use anytime through Internet access without installing a required software in its own computer and concurrently can easily share data through various kinds of information telecommunication instruments.

Referring to the network server can be variously called a cloud server a channel information providing server or the like. The network server can manage various broadcast channel information in a database. For example as illustrated in a channel information database managed by the network server can include user information user location information channel set information and the like.

The user information includes a user IDentifier ID a user name authentication information and the like and can be used as a user authentication token for user identification and authentication. The user authentication token is one of user authentication information which are widely used in a computer security device a smart card an Internet system and the like. The user location information can include a user ID a country code area identification information e.g. a zip code a broadcasting operator ID and the like. The country code is location information of a wide area indicating a country in which an electronic device is located. The area identification information is location information of a narrow area corresponding to a zip code and the like of an area in which the electronic device is located.

The area identification information may be mandatory information and the country code can be classified as optional information. The broadcasting operator ID can be used as identification information for identifying an operator ID providing a channel within a corresponding area. The channel set information can include a channel set ID a provider ID a provider name a channel ID channel information a channel name a prefer channel or not and the like.

In addition the channel information database can further include user habit information for example as illustrated in . The user habit information is information indicating a unique broadcast watching habit of a user. For example the user habit information can include various information related to a user s watching habit such as a user ID an activity type Video On Demand VOD watching or not a provider ID a channel ID a title a genre an on air time start an on air time end an activity time pay or not a prefer channel or not a search history and the like.

A request message e.g. Request 1 transmitted from the client A to the network server as illustrated in can be for example distinguished into a URL a header a body and the like as illustrated in . The body can include a user token for user authentication a country code indicating an area area identification information e.g. a zip code and the like. The user token can be called a user authentication token. Further the body can include user habit information not shown a local terrestrial broadcasting operator ID e.g. stv and the like.

The network server can operate as one independent server or operate interworking with a server of another platform in which various data have been already consolidated such that broadcast channel information and the like can be shared. For example it is assumed below that the server of the other platform is a push server. For reference a push technology of a network represents a technology of automatically periodically directly pushing the latest information to a computer screen if a user only selects a list of interested information using an Internet environment.

The push technology a technology in which a server automatically provides information desired by a user is one technology automated such that the user can receive though not requesting every time specific information. A request message e.g. Request 2 transmitted from the network server to a push server as illustrated in can include a user token a country code area identification information a local terrestrial broadcasting operator ID e.g. stv and the like and further can additionally include a server authentication token e.g. SVR authToken and the like for authenticating the network server.

The push server can be operated interworking with a previously registered client such that broadcast channel information and the like can be shared. For example it is assumed that the above previously registered client is a push client. A request message e.g. Request 3 transmitted from the push server to the push client as illustrated in can include a user token a country code area identification information a local terrestrial broadcasting operator ID and the like as described above with reference to and further can additionally include a server authentication token and the like for authenticating the network server.

The push client transmits a request message e.g. Request 4 to another electronic device possessed by a user of the client A for example another electronic device such as an IP TV with a tuner and the like based on the user information of the client A. For example it is assumed that the other electronic device possessed by the user of the client A is a client A . Alternately the push client can transmit the request message e.g. Request 4 to another electronic device located in the same area as a current area in which the client A is located or in an adjacent area of an allowed range for example to another electronic device such as an IP TV with a tuner and the like based on the location information of the client A. For example it is assumed that the other electronic device located in the same area or the adjacent area is a client B.

Meantime after the client A or the client B creates a response message e.g. Response 1 correspondingly to the request message e.g. Request 4 of the push client the client A or the client B transmits the created response message e.g. Response 1 to the network server. The response message can include broadcast channel information and the like of the client A or the client B. For example as illustrated in the response message can include a channel count indicating the number of channel lists at least one or more channel lists and the like.

The channel list can include a channel provider ID a channel provider name a channel ID a channel name a prefer channel or not and the like. As illustrated in the request messages e.g. Requests to and the response message e.g. Response 1 may be transmitted in a one way method that is an exclusive transmission method going through a one way communication path or be transmitted received in various two way communication methods.

The network server can be operated independently without interworking with the push server and the push client. Further the network server may be operated as a comprehensive server of an upper concept which includes the push server the push client and the like. Below a detailed description is made for an embodiment of the present disclosure in which the network server is operated as the comprehensive server.

Referring to a first electronic device of various types such as a smart phone a tablet PC or the like to which an embodiment of the present disclosure is applied includes a communication module a processor a memory and the like but may not include a tuner and the like for receiving digital broadcasting. The first electronic device can be called a first terminal terminal 1 on a network.

In addition a second electronic device of various types such as an IP TV and the like can include a communication module a processor a memory a tuner for receiving digital broadcasting and the like. The second electronic device can be called a second terminal terminal 2 on the network.

In addition a network server communicating with the first terminal and the second terminal through the network can be called a Channel Information Provider CIP server and the like providing broadcast channel information and the like.

For example the first terminal and the second terminal are electronic devices possessed by the same user e.g. a user A . The first terminal can be a smart phone without a tuner and the second terminal can be an IP TV with a tuner. As illustrated in the processor of the first terminal transmits a request message of requesting to share broadcast channel information to the network server in accordance to a user s request and the like at operation S. The request message includes user information location information and the like described above with reference to . Further the request message can include user habit information and the like described above with reference to .

The network server searches a database corresponding to the request message at operation S. For example if another electronic device possessed by the same user e.g. a user A is the second terminal based on the user information included in the request message the network server transmits a request message of requesting to share broadcast channel information to the second terminal at operation S.

The request message transmitted from the network server to the second terminal can include user information location information and the like. Further the request message can include a server authentication token SVR authToken and the like described above with reference to . The processor of the second terminal confirms the server authentication token SVR authToken included in the request message and authenticates the network server at operation S. If the authentication result is effective the processor of the second terminal creates a response message including broadcast channel information stored in the memory of the second terminal and then transmits the response message to the network server at operation S.

The response message can include a channel count indicating the number of channel lists at least one or more channel lists and the like as described above with reference to . The channel list can include a channel provider ID a channel provider name a channel ID a channel name a prefer channel or not and the like.

The network server performs an update operation of storing the broadcast channel information of the second terminal included in the response message within a database at operation S and creates a response message including the broadcast channel information of the second terminal and then transmits the response message to the first terminal at operation S. The response message transmitted from the network server to the first terminal can include a server authentication token SVR authToken and the like for authenticating the network server .

The processor of the first terminal extracts the broadcast channel information included in the response message and then stores the extracted broadcast channel information in the memory of the first terminal and performs a broadcast channel setting operation at operation S. As a result the first terminal of the user A can receive the broadcast channel information of the second terminal possessed by the same user A through communication with the network server and easily share the received broadcast channel information with the second terminal .

Referring to a first electronic device to which an embodiment of the present disclosure is applied includes a communication module a processor a memory and the like but may not include a tuner and the like for receiving digital broadcasting. The first electronic device can be called a first terminal terminal 1 on a network.

In addition a second electronic device can include a communication module a processor a memory a tuner for receiving digital broadcasting and the like. The second electronic device can be called a second terminal terminal 2 on the network. For example the first terminal can be a smart phone a tablet PC or the like possessed by a user A and the second terminal can be an IP TV and the like possessed by a user B.

As illustrated in the processor of the first terminal transmits a request message of requesting to share broadcast channel information to the network server in accordance to a user s request and the like at operation S. The request message includes user information location information and the like described above with reference to . Further the request message can include user habit information and the like described above with reference to .

For example if another electronic device possessed by the same user A does not exist based on the user information included in the request message the processor of the first terminal searches other electronic devices located in the same area or an adjacent area of an allowed range based on the location information included in the request message. If one of the searched other electronic devices is the second terminal the network server transmits a request message of requesting to share broadcast channel information to the second terminal at operation S.

The request message can be transmitted to electronic devices of a user who has been previously registered to or has agreed with a broadcast channel information sharing service or at least one or more electronic devices which are located in the same area as a current location of the first terminal or an adjacent area of an allowed range. The request message transmitted from the network server to the second terminal can include user information location information and the like and can include a server authentication token SVR authToken and the like for authenticating the network server as described above with reference to .

The processor of the second terminal confirms the server authentication token SVR authToken included in the request message and authenticates the network server at operation S.

If the authentication result is effective the processor of the second terminal creates a response message including broadcast channel information stored in the memory of the second terminal and then transmits the created response message to the network server at operation S. The response message can include a channel count indicating the number of channel lists at least one or more channel lists and the like as described above with reference to .

The channel list can include a channel provider ID a channel provider name a channel ID a channel name a preferred channel or not and the like. The network server performs an update operation of storing the broadcast channel information of the second terminal included in the response message within a database at operation S. The network server creates a response message including the broadcast channel information of the second terminal and then transmits the created response message to the first terminal at operation S.

The response message transmitted to the first terminal can include a server authentication token SVR authToken and the like for authenticating the network server . The processor of the first terminal extracts the broadcast channel information included in the response message and then stores the extracted broadcast channel information in the memory and performs a broadcast channel setting operation at operation S. As a result the first terminal of a user A can receive the broadcast channel information of the second terminal of a user B located in the same area or an adjacent area of an allowed range through communication with the network server and simply and conveniently share the received broadcast channel information with the second terminal .

Referring to a first electronic device to which a further embodiment of the present disclosure is applied includes a communication module a processor a memory and the like but may not include a tuner and the like for receiving digital broadcasting. The first electronic device can be called a first terminal terminal 1 on a network.

A second electronic device can include a communication module a processor a memory a tuner for receiving digital broadcasting and the like. The second electronic device can be called a second terminal terminal 2 on the network.

In addition a network server communicating with the first terminal and the second terminal can be called a CIP server and the like providing broadcast channel information and the like.

The network server periodically communicates with electronic devices of a user who has been previously registered or has agreed with a broadcast channel information sharing service and performs an update operation of receiving broadcast channel information of the electronic devices user information location information habit information and the like and stores the received information in a database.

The network server can more quickly provide the broadcast channel information sharing service based on the broadcast channel information the user information the location information the habit information and the like of the above updated database.

For example the first terminal and the second terminal can be a smart phone and an IP TV possessed by the same user e.g. a user A . As illustrated in the processor of the second terminal transmits a request message of requesting to share broadcast channel information to the network server in accordance to a user s request and the like at operation S. The request message includes user information location information and the like described above with reference to and further can include user habit information and the like described above with reference to .

The network server searches a database corresponding to the request message at operation S and then creates a response message and transmits the response message to the second terminal at operation S.

For example the network server searches whether broadcast channel information of other electronic device possessed by the same user has been stored in the database based on the user information included in the request message. If the broadcast channel information exists as the search result the network server includes the broadcast channel information in the response message and transmits the response message to the second terminal .

In contrast if the broadcast channel information based on the user information does not exist the network server searches whether broadcast channel information of another electronic device located in the same area or an adjacent area of an allowed range has been stored in the database based on the location information included in the request message. If the broadcast channel information exists as the search result the network server includes the broadcast channel information in the response message and transmits the response message to the second terminal .

In addition if the broadcast channel information based on the location information does not exist the network server confirms whether the user habit information has been included in the request message and then searches whether broadcast channel information of another electronic device having the same habit or a similar habit of an allowed range has been stored in the database based on the user habit information. If the broadcast channel information exists as the search result the network server includes the broadcast channel information in the response message and transmits the response message to the second terminal . If the broadcast channel information based on the habit information does not exist the network server includes information notifying a broadcast channel information search failure not found in the response message and transmits the response message to the second terminal .

An operation of searching the broadcast channel information based on the habit information can be performed over a wider area of an allowed range than when searching the broadcast channel information based on the location information. The processor of the second terminal extracts the broadcast channel information included in the response message and then stores the extracted broadcast channel information in a non volatile memory of the second terminal and the like and performs a broadcast channel setting operation at operation S.

In contrast if the information notifying the broadcast channel information search failure not found is included in the response message the processor of the second terminal controls an operation of the tuner and receives EPG information and the like provided through digital broadcasting and then directly sets the broadcast channel information. If the broadcast channel setting operation is completed the processor of the second terminal creates a report message including the broadcast channel information the user information the location information the habit information and the like and transmits the report message to the network server at operation S.

The network server performs an update operation of adding the broadcast channel information of the second terminal within the database in association with the user information the location information the habit information and the like at operation S. Thereafter the network server uses the broadcast channel information for the broadcast channel information sharing service.

The processor of the first terminal without a tuner transmits a request message of requesting to share the broadcast channel information to the network server in accordance to a user s request and the like at operation S. The request message includes user information location information and the like as described above and further can include user habit information and the like.

The network server searches a database corresponding to the request message at operation S and then creates a response message and transmits the response message to the first terminal at operation S.

The network server searches whether broadcast channel information of another electronic device possessed by the same user has been stored in the database based on the user information included in the request message. For example if the second terminal is another electronic device possessed by a user of the first terminal and the broadcast channel information of the second terminal exists within the database the network server includes the broadcast channel information of the second terminal in the response message and transmits the response message to the first terminal .

The processor of the first terminal extracts the broadcast channel information of the second terminal included in the response message and then stores the extracted broadcast channel information in the non volatile memory of the first terminal and the like and performs a broadcast channel setting operation at operation S. As a result the first terminal of a user A can more quickly receive the broadcast channel information of the second terminal possessed by the same user A through communication with the network server and share the received broadcast channel information with the second terminal . In addition the network server can search broadcast channel information of electronic devices of various kinds previously stored in the database based on the user information the location information the habit information and the like and more quickly provide a broadcast channel information sharing service.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure if a request message of requesting to share broadcast channel information is received for example from the first terminal the network server confirms user information location information habit information and the like included in the request message.

Thereafter the network server searches a database and provides broadcast channel information of another electronic device based on the user information or provides broadcast channel information of another electronic device based on the location information or provides broadcast channel information of another electronic device based on the habit information.

For example referring to the network server searches for an electronic device being an electronic device of the same user as that of the first terminal at operation S and being an electronic device of the same area at operation S and transmits a response message including broadcast channel information of the searched electronic device to the first terminal at operation S.

In contrast if the electronic device satisfying the above condition is not found the network server searches for an electronic device being an electronic device of the same area or an adjacent area of an allowed range at operation S and being an electronic device of a user who opens information to the public at operation S and being an electronic device of a user who has the same habit or a similar habit of an allowed range at operation S and transmits a response message including broadcast channel information of the searched electronic device to the first terminal at operation S.

Alternately if electronic devices being electronic devices of the same area or an adjacent area of an allowed range and being electronic devices of users who open information to the public but being electronic devices of users who do not have the same habit or a similar habit of an allowed range are found the network server may extract common channel information of the respective users who possess the searched electronic devices at operation S and create the response message and then transmit the response message to the first terminal at operation S.

In addition if the electronic device satisfying the above condition is not found the network server expands an area of an allowed range at operation S and searches electronic devices being electronic devices within the expanded area of the allowed range and being electronic devices of users who open information to the public at operation S. The network server extracts common channel information of the respective users possessing the searched electronic devices at operation S and creates the response message and then transmits the response message to the first terminal at operation S.

In contrast if the electronic device satisfying the above condition is not found the network server determines that the network server can no longer search for another electronic device based on the user information the location information the habit information and the like. In this case the network server creates a response message including previously set basic broadcast channel information and transmits the response message to the first terminal at operation S. The basic broadcast channel information can for example include all broadcast channel information provided through digital broadcasting. A user of the first terminal receiving the basic broadcast channel information can perform a pruning operation of manually directly erasing unwanted broadcast channel information.

Referring to the response message includes as the broadcast channel information a channel count indicating the number of channel lists and at least one or more channel lists corresponding to the channel count.

The channel list includes a channel provider ID a channel provider name channel information a channel ID a channel name a preferred channel or not and the like. The response message includes as the habit information count habit information indicating the number of habit information lists and at least one or more habit information lists corresponding to the count habit information.

The habit information list includes as mandatory information an activity type an indication whether the content is a VOD a content provider a title and the like and can include as optional information a watching channel ID an on air time start an on air time end a watching time pay or not prefer or not search or not additional information other than channel information and the like. The mandatory information and the optional information are changed according to need or any information can be added or removed. Names of the information can be also called any other names in accordance to need or in accordance to role.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a user possessing a first electronic device of various types such as a smart phone a tablet PC or the like can receive broadcast channel information of another electronic device possessed by self from a cloud computing based network server and share the received broadcast channel information as broadcast channel information of the first electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a user possessing a first electronic device of various types such as a smart phone a tablet PC or the like can receive broadcast channel information of another electronic device located in the same area or an adjacent area of an allowed range from the cloud computing based network server and share the received broadcast channel information as broadcast channel information of the first electronic device.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure a user possessing a first electronic device of various types such as a smart phone a tablet PC or the like can receive broadcast channel information of another electronic device having the same broadcast watching habit or a similar broadcast watching habit of an allowed range from the cloud computing based network server and share the received broadcast channel information as broadcast channel information of the first electronic device.

Methods according to embodiments stated in claims and or specification of various embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented in a form of hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. When the methods are implemented by the software a computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs e.g. software modules can be provided. The one or more programs stored in the computer readable storage medium are configured to be executed by one or more processors within an electronic device.

The one or more programs can include instructions for enabling the electronic device to execute the methods according to the embodiments stated in the claims and or specification of the various embodiments of the present disclosure. These programs e.g. software modules or software can be stored in a Random Access Memory RAM a non volatile memory including a flash memory a Read Only Memory ROM an Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM a magnetic disk storage device a Compact Disk ROM CD ROM a Digital Versatile Disk DVD or an optical storage device of other form and a magnetic cassette.

According to various embodiments of the present disclosure the programs can be stored in a memory constructed by a combination of some or all of them. In addition each constructed memory may be included in plural. In addition the programs can be stored in an attachable storage device accessible to the electronic device through a communication network such as the Internet an intranet a Local Area Network LAN a Wireless LAN WLAN and a Storage Area Network SAN or a communication network constructed by a combination of them. This storage device can access the electronic device through an external port. In addition a separate storage device on the communication network can also access a device performing an embodiment of the present disclosure.

While the present disclosure has been shown and described with reference to various embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

