---

title: System and method for internet domain name fraud risk assessment
abstract: Internet Domain Name Fraud Risk Assessment using a system of data element collection and computation. Data elements associated with the Internet Domain Name are acquired from internal and external data sources, captured, evaluated, and then assigned a value. Data acquisition may include use of domain information, databases, corporate and social media services, and search engine services. Using the assigned values, an Internet Domain Name category type and a Fraud Risk Score are computed and then displayed to a user along with additional information, explanations and recommendations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558497&OS=09558497&RS=09558497
owner: Emailage Corp.
number: 09558497
owner_city: Chandler
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140317
---
The present invention relates to a system and method for assessing the fraud risk of associated with a domain name.

Fraud is a deception deliberately practiced in order to secure unfair or unlawful gain adjectival form fraudulent to defraud is the verb . Fraud activity can happen in various forms like the use of Internet services or software with Internet access to defraud victims or to otherwise take advantage of them for example by stealing personal information which can even lead to identity theft. Internet services can be used to present fraudulent solicitations to prospective victims to conduct fraudulent transactions or to transmit the proceeds of fraud to financial institutions or to others connected with the scheme. Domain names can be created and used with fraudulent purposes as a criminal deception intended to result in financial or personal gain.

The present invention seeks to determine the fraud risk of an Internet Domain Name by delivering critical information about the Internet domain name to help individuals and businesses minimize the risk of fraudulent domain names. The validation of an Internet domain name data is an important component when assessing the fraud risk associated with an Internet domain name and data normalization. The solution is found in the present invention which comprises a system and methodology for Internet domain name fraud risk assessment utilizing machine learning algorithms. The system and methodology involves the collection of data elements associated with an Internet domain name from numerous sources categorizes the domain name verifies the domain name s current and historical status and verifies the existence of the Internet domain name The system and methodology calculates and describes the fraud risk indicators for the Internet domain name.

A system and method to assess the fraud risk associated with an Internet domain name is disclosed. Determination of Internet domain name fraud risk includes verifying the domain name address comparing and matching the domain name against preexistence lists with both historical and fraud information and collecting data elements for the Internet domain name. The data elements may be acquired from internal and external data sources each data element is then assigned a value corresponding to a predetermined scale. By computing the data element values a Fraud Risk Score is then determined and returned to the user along with additional data elements linked to the Internet domain name. The system and method can further define a domain name s categorization country of origin server where the domain name is hosted website and other associations such as email servers and then indicate a status to assess the fraud risk associated with the domain name. This determination in turn can be used to prevent and detect fraud to serve as an additional layer of protection against fraud incidents such as for example for new applications of financial products or services and in many other areas involving commerce and online transactions.

As shown in a system and method to assess the Internet domain name fraud risk is disclosed. Determination of Internet domain name fraud risk includes verifying the address comparing and matching it against preexistence lists with both historical and fraud information collecting data elements for the Internet domain name in real time using activity and behavioral information and utilizing neural and machine learning algorithm to predict the fraud risk related to the domain. The data elements may be acquired from internal and external data sources each data element is then assigned a value corresponding to a predetermined scale. By computing the data element values a Fraud Risk Score is then determined and returned to the user along with additional data elements linked to the Internet domain name.

One of skill in the art will recognize that the methods of the present disclosure may be implemented as one or more software processes executable by one or more processors and or one or more firmware applications. The processes and or firmware are configured to operate on one or more general purpose microprocessors or controllers a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other hardware capable of performing the actions describe above. In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a CPU executes software processes to perform the actions of the present disclosure. Additionally the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.

It is also to be understood that the methods may be employed with any form of memory device including all forms of sequential pseudo random and random access storage devices. Storage devices as known within the current art include all forms of random access memory magnetic and optical tape magnetic and optical disks along with various other forms of solid state mass storage devices. The current invention applies to all forms and manners of memory devices including but not limited to storage devices utilizing magnetic optical and chemical techniques or any combination thereof.

In a preferred embodiment of the present system and method the existence of an Internet domain name may be validated via the collection of data elements from various data sources as illustrated in . The data sources may include but are not limited to contacting an external data sources or internal data sources. Examples of contacting an external data source include sending an inquiry to a Whois or publicly accessible services such as those available through a query and response protocol. Examples of an internal data source include proprietary or non proprietary database of local Domains information which can store data such as an Internet domain name repository with historical information as well as a domain name blacklist associated with previously discovered fraudulent Internet domain name. The internal data may also include a list of Internet domain name that is managed by the system or when the user has manually marked as fraudulent or credible. This data may then be accessed during implementation of the present disclosure to prevent recurring examination of an Internet domain name. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any additional sources of Internet domain name data may also be used by implementations of the system.

In an embodiment of the present disclosure once an Internet domain name has been obtained by the system the authentication and verification process begins by querying a proprietary or non proprietary database to determine whether any information has previously been collected regarding the Internet domain name. If the Internet domain name is found in the database with a positive status or is certified wherein the Internet domain name has been determined to exist and has a recorded creation date the process may end at this stage and the information from the database will be used. Otherwise in some implementations the system may move to an additional stage to collect more details about the Internet domain name.

The external data source inquiry may be sent to one or more external data sources to verify when the Internet domain name was created and to collect data elements associated with the Internet domain name. If the information is retrieved successfully the best available Internet domain name data elements may be stored for the account.

In yet another embodiment of the present disclosure information for the Internet domain name may be collected using a query and response protocol or publicly available services such as for example Whois. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that an implementation of the disclosed method may be conducted in any order.

The following is a list of possible data elements and their respective definition that may be captured through various steps implemented in the present disclosure 

After verification and data element collection for each Internet Domain Name an optional prioritization process may be initiated. The prioritization process may be conducted to sort the data element information from most to least important. An example of such a prioritization order may appear as 1 Internet Domain Name found on proprietary database 2 Whois has provided account information 3 the oldest Internet Domain Name activity date was found on external data sources and 4 domain details captured via a database of domain names and other publicly available services 5 domain syntax and word matching. It should be recognized that any other priority order may also be used and that this priority order may be customized to tailor the results according to user preferences.

A scoring logic is then implemented to compute a Fraud Risk Score of each Internet Domain Name the computation may take place on a user computing device . To determine the Fraud Risk Score a value is assigned to each data element. The value is based on a predetermined or user specified scale that takes into account the type and source of the data element information. The following provides an example of a scale that may be used to assign a Fraud Risk Score and shows the score on the left with an exemplary characteristic that an Internet Domain Name may have to be assigned such a score listed on the right 

While the above example provides a scale in which a higher Fraud Risk Score indicates a higher likelihood of an Internet Domain Name being unreliable and or fraudulent one of ordinary skill in the art would also recognize that a numeric or other scale may be used in which a lower Fraud Risk Score indicates a lower likelihood that the Internet Domain Name is fraudulent.

As illustrated in a graphical user interface may display the Fraud Risk Score for each Internet Domain Name. In addition to the Fraud Risk Score a description explanations or category type for the particular Fraud Risk Score of each Internet Domain Name may be displayed to assist the user understand the results. The Internet Domain Name category description takes into consideration information collected during the verification and data element search. The following is an example of class and category description that may be displayed 

The graphical user interface may also display a recommendation based on one or more threshold limits directly related to the risk associated with an Internet Domain Name. For example if a Fraud Risk Score is greater than or equal to 800 the system may display a message such as Fraud Review or Review for Potential Fraud Risk indicating that the user may wish to further investigate the authenticity of the Internet Domain Name. In another example if a Fraud Risk Score between 450 and 550 is assigned the system may display a message such as Unclear Risk or Unclear Risk at this point due to limited Internet Domain Name history indicating that the user may wish to undertake further process steps in an attempt to further verify the email address. In yet another example if a Fraud Risk Score is less than or equal to 300 the system may display a message such as Low Fraud Risk or Low Fraud Risk due to Internet Domain Name history indicating that the user may have a high degree of confidence that the Internet Domain Name is credible.

In places where the description above refers to particular implementations of computerized systems and methods for Internet Domain Name fraud risk assessment and credibility rating it should be readily apparent that a number of modifications may be made without departing from the spirit thereof and that these implementations may be applied to other embodiments of Internet Domain Name risk assessment and credibility rating systems and methods.

All features disclosed in this specification including any accompanying claim abstract and drawings may be replaced by alternative features serving the same equivalent or similar purpose unless expressly stated otherwise. Thus unless expressly stated otherwise each feature disclosed is one example only of a generic series of equivalent or similar features.

Any element in a claim that does not explicitly state means for performing a specified function or step for performing a specific function is not to be interpreted as a means or step clause as specified in 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6. In particular the use of step of in the claims herein is not intended to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 paragraph 6.

Although preferred embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described various modifications and substitutions may be made thereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly it is to be understood that the present invention has been described by way of illustration and not limitation.

