---

title: Emergency call handling
abstract: Technology for initiating emergency calls is disclosed. A minimum set of emergency related data (MSD) associated with the emergency call may be identified at a terminal equipment (TE) of a mobile terminal. An attention (AT) command may be generated that includes the MSD and selected configuration information related to the emergency call. The AT command may be sent from the TE of the mobile terminal to a mobile termination (MT) of the mobile terminal in order to setup the emergency call, wherein the mobile terminal (MT) routes the emergency call to a public safety answering point (PSAP) in a communication network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09615234&OS=09615234&RS=09615234
owner: Intel IP Corporation
number: 09615234
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140924
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 893 792 filed Oct. 21 2013 the entire specification of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Emergency call services provided by network operators may allow callers to contact local emergency services for assistance. The caller may dial an emergency telephone number such as 9 1 1 in the United States in order to connect with emergency service personnel. The caller may dial the emergency telephone number on a cellular phone or a landline telephone. An emergency telephone call may be answered by a telephone operator or an emergency dispatcher at a call center also known as a public safety answering point PSAP . The emergency telephone call may be routed to the PSAP over a public switched telephone network PSTN when the caller dials the emergency telephone number using the landline telephone or a cellular network when the caller dials the emergency telephone number using the cellular phone. A nature of the emergency e.g. police fire medical may be determined and appropriate help may be dispatched for example to a current location of the caller.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE .

Emergency calls may be initiated by communication devices e.g. mobile phones by setting up an emergency voice call. The emergency voice call may include a special emergency call indication. In other words the emergency voice call may be indicated as being related to a request for emergency services. The emergency voice call may be routed to a public safety answering point PSAP located in a network. The PSAP may connect the emergency voice call to relevant safety personnel e.g. police station fire station hospital .

One type of emergency call service is an eCall. The emergency call eCall may be initiated automatically or manually from a vehicle such as an automobile motorcycle boat bicycle train bus truck etc. The eCall may provide rapid assistance to motorists involved in a vehicle collision or request emergency services for additional reasons e.g. medical emergencies . A mobile terminal T is an electronic communication device that may be installed in the vehicle and when a serious road accident or emergency event occurs the mobile terminal may automatically dial an emergency telephone number for connecting with the PSAP. In other words the mobile device may initiate the eCall to the PSAP. Alternatively the mobile terminal may be a standalone device carried by a user and if an emergency event occurs the mobile terminal may automatically or manually dial the emergency telephone number for connecting with the PSAP. The eCall may be supplemented with a minimum set of emergency related data MSD . In one example the MSD may be approximately 140 bytes in size. The MSD may include a current time and a current location of the vehicle and or the user such as global positioning system GPS coordinates for the vehicle and or the user. In addition the MSD may include vehicular system information such as airbag deployment brake information speed information and or impact sensor information collected at the vehicle when the accident occurs.

Traditional eCall techniques are based on circuit switched CS emergency calls. For example MSD for the eCall may be communicated to the PSAP in band in audio streams i.e. via user plane communication paths. The 3GPP LTE standard has proposed extending the eCall to Internet Protocol Multimedia Subsystem IMS based emergency calls. In other words eCalls may be transmitted using the IMS architectural framework. Therefore MSD for the eCall may be communicated to the PSAP using Session Initiation Protocol SIP invite messages i.e. via control plane communication paths. In one configuration the SIP invite message may include a reference or pointer to information that is remotely stored at a server. For example the information may be relatively large in size e.g. photographs of an accident scene and rather than including the information in the SIP invite message itself the reference or pointer to the information may be provided to the PSAP. At the PSAP the information may be accessed from the server.

The mobile terminal T that is operable to initiate the emergency call may include a mobile termination MT and a terminal equipment TE . The mobile termination may include modem hardware such as senders and receivers for inter device communications. The mobile termination may be controlled by the terminal equipment i.e. hardware that interacts with end users and includes application processors via attention AT commands. The AT commands are further defined in 3GPP LTE Technical Specification TS 27.007 Release 12 as well as earlier releases of the 3GPP LTE standard. In other words the AT commands enable communication between the terminal equipment and the mobile termination via the terminal adaptor. While previous versions of the 3GPP LTE standard have defined an AT command for initiating eCalls at the mobile terminal this AT command does not enable eCall data e.g. MSD to be provided to the mobile termination. In other words the communication of data related to the emergency situation is not currently allowed through AT commands that are defined in the 3GPP LTE Release 12 standard and earlier releases.

As described herein eCall data e.g. MSD may be provided to the mobile termination of the mobile terminal via AT commands. The mobile termination may include the eCall data in the emergency call for example when connecting to the PSAP. As a result the PSAP may gather information surrounding the circumstances of the emergency situation. The eCall data may be provided to the mobile termination via an extended version of an existing CECALL command or a novel AT command. In other words the existing CECALL command may include an AT command that is communicated between the terminal equipment and the mobile termination via the terminal adaptor.

The eCall data may be provided to the mobile termination through novel parameters included in the AT command. As examples of eCall data the MSD may be provided using a novel parameter and additional data related to the emergency situation may be provided using a novel parameter. The additional data may be requested to be transmitted within the eCall or alternatively the additional data may be requested to be transmitted through an external reference by using a novel add type parameter. With the extended version of the existing CECALL command MSD and or additional data may be provided for an ongoing eCall by setting a parameter to a novel value of 4 thereby indicating a current eCall. Therefore the eCall data may be provided during an ongoing eCall using the extended version of the existing CECALL command. If an eCall is currently not ongoing the eCall data may be provided in the AT command when an eCall is being initiated at the mobile termination.

The technology described herein offers a number of advantages over previous AT commands that are described in the 3GPP LTE standard e.g. Release 12 and earlier . As examples the novel AT commands described herein may provide eCall data to the mobile termination. Using the novel AT commands described herein the eCall data may be provided for eCalls that are ongoing or alternatively for eCalls that are to be initiated at the mobile termination. The novel AT commands described herein indicates whether the eCall data is to be transmitted via an external reference or within the eCall. The novel AT commands described herein may be compatible with existing AT commands described in the 3GPP LTE specification. In addition the novel AT commands described herein may support an IMS based eCall service.

The mobile terminal may be an electronic communication device that is installed on a vehicle and when a serious road accident or emergency event occurs the mobile terminal may via the mobile termination automatically initiate the eCall for communicating with the PSAP . Alternatively the mobile terminal may be carried by a user e.g. the mobile terminal may be inside the user s pocket and if an emergency event occurs the mobile terminal may automatically or manually initiate the eCall for connecting with the PSAP . As an example the user associated with the mobile terminal may be involved in a vehicle accident. An in vehicle system IVS in the vehicle may be connected to the mobile terminal . The IVS may automatically initiate the eCall using the mobile terminal . The IVS may determine a minimum set of eCall data e.g. the MSD to be communicated during the eCall. The eCall data may include a current time and a current location of the vehicle and or the user. The current location of the vehicle and or the user may be represented using global positioning system GPS coordinates. In addition the eCall data may include vehicular system information such as airbag deployment brake information speed information and or impact sensor information collected at the vehicle when the accident occurs. As other examples the eCall data may relate to information describing or characterizing the road accident or emergency event such as images of the scene possible injuries suffered by users at the scene etc.

In one example the IVS may trigger the mobile terminal to set up the eCall with the PSAP . In particular the IVS may trigger the mobile terminal to initiate the eCall using the eCall data e.g. the MSD related to the vehicle accident or emergency situation. The terminal equipment of the mobile terminal may receive the external trigger from the IVS. As described in greater detail below the terminal equipment may send AT commands to the mobile termination via the terminal adapter in order to request the mobile termination to setup the eCall with the PSAP . In addition the eCall data may be included in the eCall to assist the PSAP in determining appropriate emergency services for the user associated with the mobile terminal .

In one configuration the AT command communicated to the mobile termination may be an extended CECALL command. The general syntax and semantics for the CECALL command may be CECALL . In other words the terminal equipment may communicate the CECALL command to the mobile termination via the terminal adapter .

The parameter included in the CECALL command may indicate a type of eCall that is to be initiated at the mobile termination . The parameter may be of an integer type. For example the parameter may be set to 0 to indicate that the eCall is a test call the parameter may be set to 1 to indicate that the eCall is a reconfiguration eCall the parameter may be set to 2 to indicate that the eCall is a manually initiated eCall the parameter may be set to 3 to indicate that the eCall is an automatically initiated eCall or the parameter may be set to 4 to indicate that the eCall is a current eCall.

The parameter included in the CECALL command may indicate a format of eCall data that is to be provided during the eCall. The parameter may be of an integer type. For example the parameter may be set to 0 to indicate that the format of the eCall data is an Extensible Markup Language XML format or the parameter may be set to 1 to indicate that the format of the eCall data is a binary format.

The parameter included in the CECALL command may indicate a minimum set of data that is to be provided during the eCall. The parameter may be of a string type. As an example the parameter may include a string of characters representing the current location of a user and or a vehicle. In one configuration the may be approximately 140 bytes in size.

The parameter included in the CECALL command may indicate a type of transmission for the additional data. The parameter may be of an integer type. As an example the parameter may be set to 0 to indicate that the additional data is to be transmitted within the eCall the parameter may be set to 1 to indicate that the additional data is to be transmitted by reference e.g. the eCall may include a pointer or reference to an external server that stores the additional data or the parameter may be set to 2 to indicate that the type of transmission for the additional data is undecided.

The parameter included in the CECALL command may indicate additional data that is to be included in the eCall. The parameter may be of a string type. As an example the parameter may include audio pictures etc. related to the vehicle accident or the emergency situation. In addition the parameter may include the pointer or reference such as a uniform resource locator URL to indicate a location of the additional data on a network server.

As a non limiting example the terminal equipment may request the mobile termination to setup the eCall by sending the CECALL command i.e. an AT command to the mobile termination with the following parameters CECALL 3 0 0 wherein the first parameter 3 indicates that the eCall is an automatically initiated eCall the second parameter 0 indicates that the eCall data is provided in XML format the third parameter is the MSD data in XML format the fourth parameter 0 indicates that the additional data is to be transmitted within the eCall and the fifth parameter is the additional data in XML format.

As another non limiting example an ongoing eCall may be occurring at the mobile termination . In other words the ongoing eCall may be taking place between the mobile terminal and the PSAP. The user associated with the mobile terminal may take pictures of the accident scene and using the mobile terminal request to add the pictures to the ongoing eCall. Therefore the terminal equipment may send an AT command to the mobile termination in order to send the additional pictures. The AT command sent to the mobile termination may be represented as follows CECALL 4 1 1 wherein the first parameter 4 indicates that the eCall data is to be transmitted for the ongoing eCall the second parameter 1 indicates that the eCall data is provided in a binary format the fourth parameter 1 indicates that the additional data is to be transmitted via an external data server and is only referenced within the eCall and the fifth parameter is the additional picture data to be added to the eCall. In this example the CECALL command may not include the third parameter of because there is no MSD to be sent in the ongoing eCall.

In one configuration the AT command communicated to the mobile termination may be a CECALLDAT command. In other words rather than using an extended version of an existing CECALL command as discussed in a novel AT command may be used to provide the eCall. The general syntax and semantics for the CECALLDAT command may be CECALLDAT . In other words the terminal equipment may communicate the CECALLDAT command to the mobile termination via the terminal adapter .

The parameter included in the CECALLDAT command may indicate a format of eCall data that is to be provided during the eCall. The parameter may be of an integer type. For example the parameter may be set to 0 to indicate that the format of the eCall data is an Extensible Markup Language XML format or the parameter may be set to 1 to indicate that the format of the eCall data is a binary format.

The parameter included in the CECALLDAT command may indicate a minimum set of data that is to be provided during the eCall. The parameter may be of a string type. As an example the parameter may include a string of characters representing the current location of a user and or a vehicle. In one configuration the may be approximately 140 bytes in size.

The parameter included in the CECALLDAT command may indicate a type of transmission for the additional data. The parameter may be of an integer type. As an example the parameter may be set to 0 to indicate that the additional data is to be transmitted within the eCall the parameter may be set to 1 to indicate that the additional data is to be transmitted by reference e.g. the eCall may include a pointer or reference to an external server that stores the additional data or the parameter may be set to 2 to indicate that the type of transmission for the additional data is undecided. The pointer or reference included in the parameter may include a uniform resource locator URL indicating a location of the additional data.

The parameter included in the CECALLDAT command may indicate additional data that is to be included in the eCall. The parameter may be of a string type. As an example the parameter may include audio pictures etc. related to the vehicle accident or the emergency situation.

After eCall data has been provided to the mobile termination the terminal equipment may send a CECALL command to the mobile termination for initiating the eCall. For example the terminal equipment may send CECALL 0 to indicate that the eCall is a test call. The terminal equipment may send CECALL 1 to indicate that the eCall is a reconfiguration eCall. The terminal equipment may send CECALL 2 to indicate that the eCall is a manually initiated eCall. The terminal equipment may send CECALL 3 to indicate that the eCall is an automatically initiated eCall. The terminal equipment may send CECALL 4 to indicate that the eCall is a current eCall.

As a non limiting example the terminal equipment may request the mobile termination to setup the eCall by sending the CECALLDAT command i.e. an AT command to the mobile termination with the following parameters CECALLDAT 0 0 wherein the first parameter 0 indicates that the eCall data is provided in XML format the second parameter is the MSD data in XML format the third parameter 0 indicates that the additional data is to be transmitted within the eCall and the fourth parameter is the additional data in XML format.

As another non limiting example an ongoing eCall may be occurring at the mobile termination . In other words the ongoing eCall may be taking place between the mobile terminal and a PSAP. The user associated with the mobile terminal may take pictures of the accident scene and using the mobile terminal request to add the pictures to the ongoing eCall. Therefore the terminal equipment may send an AT command to the mobile termination in order to send the additional pictures. The AT command sent to the mobile termination may be represented as follows CECALLDAT 1 1 wherein the first parameter 1 indicates that the eCall data is provided in a binary format the third parameter 1 indicates that the additional data is to be transmitted via an external data server and is only referenced within the eCall and the fourth parameter is the additional picture data to be added to the eCall. In this example the CECALLDAT command may not include the second parameter of because there is no MSD to be sent in the ongoing eCall.

In one configuration the mobile termination may provide default eCall data when initiating the eCall. The mobile termination may provide the default eCall data in response to determining that no data is provided for the eCall. In other words default eCall data may be used when the AT command e.g. the CECALL command or the CECALLDAT command does not include and or parameters or alternatively when the and or parameters are empty.

In another configuration the mobile termination may receive AT commands from the terminal equipment and respond with an error code when the AT commands are incorrect or incomplete. For example the mobile termination may receive the CECALL command from the terminal equipment . The CECALL command may include a parameter set to 4 to indicate a current eCall even though no eCall may be ongoing. Therefore the mobile termination may respond with a suitable error code to the terminal equipment .

In yet another configuration the mobile terminal may support multiple simultaneous eCalls. Therefore the eCalls may be identified using an additional parameter in the AT command. For example the parameter may be included in the CECALL command or the CECALLDAT command. The CECALL command may be represented by CECALL and the CECALLDAT command may be represented by CECALLDAT . The parameter in the extended CECALL command may be ignored and as an example a value of 4 i.e. indicating a current eCall may be assumed if an existing parameter value is provided in the CECALL command. In addition the CECALL command may respond a newly assigned parameter value for a newly initiated eCall.

In one configuration the CECALL command communicated between the terminal equipment and the mobile termination may include a parameter. The parameter may indicate whether the eCall is to be setup via a circuit switched CS domain or an Internet Protocol Multimedia Subsystem IMS domain. For example the CECALL command may be represented as CECALL wherein the parameter indicates the domain for setting up the eCall. The parameter may be of an integer type. For example the parameter may be set to 0 to indicate that the domain for setting up the eCall is a CS domain the parameter may be set to 1 to indicate that the domain for setting up the eCall is an IMS domain or the parameter may be set to 2 to indicate that the domain for setting up the eCall is undecided.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a mobile terminal T operable to initiate an emergency call as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The circuitry can be configured to identify a minimum set of emergency related data MSD associated with the emergency call as in block . The circuitry can be configured to generate an attention AT command that includes the MSD and selected configuration information related to the emergency call as in block . In addition the circuitry can be configured to send the AT command to a mobile termination MT of the mobile terminal in order to setup the emergency call wherein the mobile terminal MT routes the emergency call to a public safety answering point PSAP in a communication network as in block .

In one configuration the circuitry can be further configured to generate the AT command in response to receiving a trigger from an in vehicle system IVS associated with the mobile terminal. In another configuration the circuitry can be configured to send the MSD from the mobile termination MT of the mobile terminal to the PSAP via a session initial protocol SIP invite message.

In one example the mobile terminal is configured to initiate internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS based emergency calls. In another example the MSD associated with the emergency call includes a current time and a current location of the mobile terminal. In yet another example the AT command is a CECALL command wherein a syntax of the CECALL command is represented as CECALL wherein indicates a type of emergency call indicates a format associated with the emergency call is the MSD indicates a type of transmission for additional data and is the additional data.

In one configuration the indicates that the type of emergency call is at least one of a manually initiated emergency call an automatically initiated emergency call or an ongoing emergency call. In another configuration the is a uniform resource locator URL to an external server that stores the additional data. In yet another configuration the indicates that the additional data is transmitted within the emergency call or via a reference to an external server that stores the additional data.

In one example the AT command is a CECALLDAT command wherein a syntax of the CECALLDAT command is represented as CECALLDAT wherein indicates a format associated with the emergency call is the MSD indicates a type of transmission for additional data and is the additional data. In another example the circuitry can be further configured to send at least one of the CECALL command or a CECELLDAT command as the AT command wherein the syntax of the CECALL command is represented as CECALL and a syntax of the CECELLDAT command is represented as CECALLDAT wherein indicates a call identifier ID when the MT supports multiple simultaneous emergency calls. In yet another example the circuitry can be further configured to send at least one of the CECALL command or the CECELLDAT command as the AT command wherein the syntax of the CECALL command is represented as CECALL and the syntax of the CECELLDAT command is represented as CECALLDAT wherein indicates whether the emergency call is set up via a circuit switched CS domain or an internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS domain.

Another example provides functionality of computer circuitry of a mobile termination MT operable to handle emergency calls as shown in the flow chart in . The functionality may be implemented as a method or the functionality may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The circuitry can be configured to receive an attention AT command for an emergency call from a terminal equipment TE of the mobile terminal wherein the AT command includes a minimum set of emergency related data MSD associated with the emergency call as in block . The circuitry can be configured to identify a public safety answering point PSAP based in part on the MSD included in the AT command as in block . The circuitry can be further configured to route the emergency call to the PSAP wherein the PSAP connects the emergency call to appropriate public safety personnel as in block .

In one example the MSD associated with the emergency call includes a current time and a current location of the mobile terminal. In another example the circuitry can be further configured to determine that and parameters are not provided in the AT command from the TE and identify default data to be used in place of the and parameters when initiating the emergency call.

In one configuration the AT command received from the TE is a CECALL command wherein a syntax of the CECALL command is represented as CECALL wherein indicates a type of emergency call indicates a format associated with the emergency call is the MSD indicates a type of transmission for additional data and is the additional data. In yet another configuration the circuitry can be further configured to determine that the CECALL command received from the TE includes one or more parameters that are in error and send to the TE an error code and a description of the error to enable the TE to resend the CECALL command to the MT.

Another example provides a method for initiating emergency calls as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method can include the operation of identifying at a terminal equipment TE of a mobile terminal a minimum set of emergency related data MSD associated with the emergency call as in block . The method can include the operation of generating an attention AT command that includes the MSD and selected configuration information related to the emergency call as in block . In addition the method can include the operation of sending the AT command from the TE of the mobile terminal to a mobile termination MT of the mobile terminal in order to setup the emergency call wherein the mobile terminal MT routes the emergency call to a public safety answering point PSAP in a communication network as in block .

In one example the method can further include the operation of generating the AT command in response to receiving a trigger from an in vehicle system IVS associated with the mobile terminal. In another example the method can further include the operation of sending the MSD associated with the emergency call from the mobile terminal to the PSAP using a session initial protocol SIP invite message.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

