---

title: Techniques for call integration with a television set-top box (STB)
abstract: Techniques for call integration are provided. Call logs associated with multiple voice accounts are acquired and integrated as an integrated call log. The integrated call log is presented at a display. A user can take a variety of actions on the integrated call log as a whole or on individual entries within the integrated call log.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09538227&OS=09538227&RS=09538227
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09538227
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140417
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 651 092 filed Jan. 6 2007 by Brandt et al. entitled Techniques for Call Integration With a Television Set Top Box STB . All sections of the aforementioned application s are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This application relates to voice and television TV technologies and more specifically to techniques for call integration with a television set top box STB .

Consumers increasingly have a variety of communication and entertainment choices. For example a typical consumer may have a landline and a mobile phone for voice communications and may have a television and a personal computer PC to view entertainment programming.

One problem associated with this is that consumers have become reliant on a plurality of communication and entertainment mechanisms and devices which means when one is not readily available the consumer may experience frustration. To solve this issue enterprises are converging voice and entertainment technologies and making them ever present on a plurality of devices. For example a cell phone can play streaming video and a PC can make voice calls to land lines or mobile phones etc.

One area that has not been particularly integrated well is voice technology with television TV technology. Furthermore when consumers are enjoying entertainment programming on TV and a desire for voice communications is needed their viewing experience becomes disrupted and may never be re established if the consumer has to track down a particular type of voice communication. It may also be that the particular type of voice communication is not available at all and the consumer is away from home entirely.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of an embodiment of the present disclosure. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details.

At the STB voice integration service acquires a first call log from a first voice account. A call log is a call history associated with a voice calling account. The first voice account may be an account associated with a wireless phone service landline or plain old telephone lines POTS service voice over Internet Protocol VoIP service etc.

A call log may also be associated with text messages emails voicemails and or instant messaging. Essentially a call log may be viewed as a list or series of entries or metadata records each entry or record may include one or more of the following a calling number email identification instant message identification text message user identification date and time of call duration of a call indication of status or disposition of the call e.g. was the call missed answered forwarded resulted in a voicemail an email or text message a customized icon or picture thumbnail representing an identity for a particular caller being identified in the entry etc.

It is also understood that a call may be issuing a connection to contacting a voice communication device transmitting an email transmitting a text message and or establishing an instant message session. The call may also include a conference call between multiple voice communication devices or a joining or establishing a chat session.

According to an embodiment at the STB voice integration service may communicate with a device associated with the first call log and the first account. This device may be a cell phone a satellite phone a laptop a personal computer PC a personal digital assistant PDA and the like. Communication can occur in a variety of manners such as through a Bluetooth connection a USB connection or a home network or residential network to which both the STB voice integration service and the device are connected. If the device includes a service that supports communications unsolicited from the Internet then the STB voice integration service may even go through the Internet to locate the device and communicate with it for purposes of acquiring the call log.

At the STB voice integration service obtains a second call log from a second voice account. Again this second call log is different from the first call log and is associated with a different voice account then the first voice account. It may be any type of voice account enumerated above. It may also be the case that the first voice account is one cell phone account and the second voice account is another cell phone account. So although the two voice accounts are different and distinct from one another they may be of the same type although they do not have to be such as when the first account is a landline account and the second account is a cell phone account.

In an embodiment at it may be that the STB voice integration service contacts the remote voice service to receive the first and second call logs for the first and second voice accounts. The remote service maintains or is capable of obtaining one or both of the call logs from other services. For example it may be that a voice provider supplies access to a call log over an Internet World Wide Web WWW site. The remote voice service may have the credential information for the user associated with the first and second accounts such as identification and password. The remote service may then sign in as the user and scrape the call log from screens of the voice provider to acquire the call log. In other cases it may be that an Application Programming Interface API for the voice provider may permit the remote voice service to directly interact with the features of the voice provider to acquire the call logs. In still more cases it may be that the remote voice service is the voice provider for one or both of the voice accounts.

It may be that the STB voice integration service can interact with Internet WWW voice provider pages with proper initial identifications and passwords supplied during a setup or configuration process by the user. In these cases the STB can acquire one or both of the call logs entirely independent from the remote service by signing in and scraping the WWW pages from the voice provider.

At the STB voice integration service presents an integrated call log on a display to the user. The STB voice integration service processes on a STB and the STB is interfaced to the display such as a TV or monitor. The call history or logs associated with both the first and second voice accounts are integrated as one and presented to the user on the display. The presentation may include information that permits the user to distinguish which call entry is associated with which voice account. This may be via effects such as color or may be via notations such as icons words etc.

In some embodiments at the STB voice integration service may receive a call selection from the user for a particular call entry associated with one of the two call logs. The selection is made via an interface that the user activates such as through a remote for the STB where the user highlights or selects a particular call entry within the integrated call log.

It may even be the case at that the STB voice integration service receives an account selection from the user indicating an instruction from the user to use a particular voice account with the call selection made at . It may be the call selection made at is from the first call log associated with the first voice account and the account selection made at is for the second voice account. However this does not have to be the case so the account selection may also be for the first voice account when the call selection is for a call entry associated with the first call log.

It is noted that the voice account selection does not have to occur at all. In other words the user may have a default account selection and a default device associated with that default voice account.

The call selection may be sent from the STB to a remote service where it is processed in manners discussed below with respect to the method of the . Additionally the method supplies a variety of alternative and enhanced processing that may be associated with the STB voice integration service.

At the STB voice integration service contacts a remote voice service and instructs it to call a particular device associated with a default account or with a selected account made at . The remote voice service then calls that device and when that device is answered the call entry selected from the integrated call log at is connected to the device. This entire process may be referred to as click to connect. Again this click to connect or call may be a variety of things such as sending an email to a particular user leaving or calling a voice mailbox establishing an instant message session sending a text message. In fact the user may be provided an option as to who and what mechanism that the user wants to respond to a call log entry such as reply via a live voice communication landline mobile VoIP leave a direct voice message to a voice mail box send a text message send an email join or establish a conference call with others in addition to the caller join or establish an instant message session join or establish a chat session etc. In this sense the phrase click to connect can also be viewed as click to call or even click to reply. 

According to an embodiment at the STB voice integration service may recognize that the first voice account is associated with a different voice device than that which is associated with the second account. So the STB voice integration service may maintain mappings for devices of the user based on the voice account of the user. A single voice account may also have a plurality of devices such as when that voice account is a VoIP account.

In some cases the user may request that the integrated call log be presented in some subset or custom manner. For example the user may desire to see call log entries for just the first call log or just the second call log. The user may also desire to see selective entries that may span both the first and second call log and appear in the integrated call log such as just calls from Jeff or just calls from number email or user id X and the like. So the user may create or request custom presentations from the integrated call log.

At the remote voice integration service receives a request from a STB to acquire two or more call logs from two or more voice accounts. The request may actually be received from the STB voice integration service discussed above with reference to the method of the .

In some cases at the request may include a variety of information that permits the remote voice integration service to authenticate the STB and the user associated with the request. Any authentication technique may be used to establish that the request is legitimate and is being received from the STB and if desired to properly ensure that it is specifically the user associated with the voice accounts making or initiating the request on the STB.

At the remote voice integration service acquires the call logs. This can occur in a variety of ways. For example at the remote voice integration service may contact at least one external service such as voice provider WWW service to acquire at least one of the call logs. In some cases the remote voice integration service may directly maintain or be associated with one or more of the voice accounts such that the information is locally available or easily acquired by the remote voice integration service.

At the remote voice integration service delivers the two or more call logs to the STB in response to the initial request for the same. The two or more call logs are then integrated on the STB in the manners discussed above with the STB voice integration service represented by the method of the . In some cases the remote voice integration service may itself perform the integration on the two or more call logs and deliver them as one single integrated stream of information.

According to an embodiment at the remote voice integration service may receive another request from the STB to place a call on a particular device. In response to this the remote voice integration service calls the particular device and connects the call to the particular device when the device is answered. So the user interacting with the STB can place a call via the TV monitor by interacting with novel processing associated with the STB and the remote voice integration service where the call is made and transferred to the user in the manner discussed above. The particular call is selected by the user from the integrated call log.

In some cases at the remote voice integration service may contact the particular device of the user over a variety of transmission mediums such as but not limited to cellular satellite POTS and or VoIP.

At the remote voice integration service may also receive a request from the STB to retrieve voice messages associated with both or one of the two or more voice accounts. The voice messages may then be streamed to the STB and played for the user on an audio device interfaced to the STB.

At the remote voice integration service may then delete one or more of the voice messages in response to instruction received from the STB and acquired from the user. So the user may determine that the message can be deleted and the STB communicates that to the remote voice integration service. The remote voice integration service then contacts the voice mail box for the proper voice account and deletes the message on behalf of the user. So not only may the call logs be integrated and managed but the voice mail boxes of multiple voice accounts may be managed in an integrated and convenient manner via the interaction between the STB and the remote voice integration service.

The instructions may be implemented on a removable medium and subsequently interfaced to a machine where the instructions are uploaded within the machine and processed. Alternatively the instructions may be prefabricated within memory or storage of the machine and loaded for execution when the machine is initiated or booted. In still another arrangement the instructions may be downloaded from a network storage location or other network machine to a target machine on the network and processed. In yet another situation the instructions may be remotely processed over a network on one machine at the instruction and on behalf of another different network machine.

In an embodiment the instructions reside and processing within a STB interface to one or more TV s having one or more displays.

At the instructions integrate two or more call logs for two or more voice accounts associated with a user into an integrated call log. Examples of these were provided in detail above with respect to the STB voice integration service represented by the method of the and the remote voice integration service represented by the method of the .

At the instructions present the integrated call log on a display for the user to interact with. At the instructions perform one or more subsequent user initiated instructions with respect to the entire call log as a whole or with respect to one or selective ones of call entries associated with the integrated call log.

In an embodiment at the instructions can perform a variety of actions such as but not limited to sorting the integrated call log searching the integrated call log organizing the integrated call log custom presenting selective portions of the integrated call log on the display making a call to a designated entry in the integrated call log via a click to connect connecting the call to the designated device and or establishing a conference call between two or more call entries in the integrated call log.

In an embodiment at the instructions may deliver voice messages associated with the two or more voice accounts to a voice device. In some situations at this may entail calling the voice device designated by the user in response to the user initiated instruction to play the voice messages when the voice device answers. In other cases at this may entail streaming voice messages to a voice device connected to the display in response to the user initiated instruction to play the voice messages.

The instructions may perform other operations on behalf of the user as well such as providing an up to date summary by voice account of minutes used minutes free minutes over the limit Voice providers supply this information via the WWW in most situations so acquiring it and presenting it in a summary manner with the integrated call log or accessible from options associated with the integrated call log is easily achieved.

Additionally the sorting of the integrated call log may be done by name by number by date by time by voice account. Options may also permit the instructions to dynamically refresh the integrated call log. Users may even assign categories to certain call entries and sort or search by these categories such as over minutes for the month mom s number etc.

The voice and TV integration system includes a STB A. In an embodiment the voice and TV integration system may also include a remote service . Each of these components and their interactions with one another will now be discussed in turn.

The STB A includes an interface B. The processing associated with the STB A was described in detail above with respect to the methods and of the . The interface B permits the STB A to interact with a user and communicate with the user via presentations made on a display such as TV or monitor.

The STB A integrates multiple call logs for multiple voice accounts into an integrated call log. The integrated call log is then presented to the user via the display . The user then interacts with the integrated call log to perform a variety of operations or actions via the interface B. Such action may include but are not limited to sorting the integrated call log searching the integrated call log custom organizing the integrated call log enlisting the assistance of a remote service to assist in establishing calls or retrieving voice mail messages associated with the multiple voice accounts establishing conferences calls and or communicating with a designated device to retrieve one or more of the multiple call logs or to place a particular call.

In an embodiment the STB A is an Internet Protocol IP TV IPTV enabled STB A. The STB A interacts with devices and services via the Internet using IP communications and services to assist in integrating the call logs initiating calls and retrieving and managing voice mail messages.

In some cases it may be that the STB A that is IP enabled includes a microphone of a Bluetooth capability with a voice device . In such a situation calls can be made via the STB A using VoIP and a VoIP account. So a user can do a click to call via the integrated call log and then actually conduct the call or even conference call in front of the TV and the STB.

The voice and TV integration system may also include a remote service located remotely over the Internet from the environment of the STB A and the user interacting with the STB A. The remote service interacts or assists the STB A in acquiring all or some of the multiple call logs. In fact in some cases the remote service may deliver the integrated call log itself as a single entity to the STB A. The remote service may also assist in completing some of the actions selected or made by the user via the interface B of the STB A. Some of this assistance in completing the actions may include but is not limited to retrieving voice messages delivering voice messages to a particular device delivering voice messages to a device associated with the display establishing a conference call for the user from multiple selections of entries in the integrated call log establishing a call to a particular call entry selected by the user from the integrated call log etc.

In the illustrated embodiment the content provider and the set top box are connected via a network where the network can include a cable television distribution network a satellite distribution network a broadcast television distribution network a data packet based computer network e.g. an Ethernet network and the like. Likewise the content sources and may be connected via one or more networks to the content provider .

As shown the content provider can include one or more interfaces and to interface with the content sources and respectively and an interface to interface with the set top box via the network . The interfaces and may include any of a variety of local network interfaces such as a coaxial cable interface an Ethernet and a HPNA. The IP Network based source is shown to be connected to a computer over a network e.g. Internet thereby providing a communication path between a user operating the set top box and a user operating the computer . The content provider further may include an EPG generation module and a multimedia content distribution module . The modules and may be implemented as software hardware firmware or combinations thereof. To illustrate the content provider may include a memory e.g. static random access memory SRAM and one or more processors where the modules and may be implemented in part or in whole as executable instructions stored in the memory and executed by the processor to perform the techniques described herein.

As also shown the set top box may include an interface for interfacing with the content provider via the network a control interface to receive user input and commands e.g. via a remote control a button panel a microphone and a display interface to interface with the display device . The interface may include any of a variety of appropriate interfaces such as a coaxial cable interface a wireless interface to send and receive wireless transmissions or a data packet based network interface such as an Ethernet interface. The control interface may include any of a variety of interfaces such as an infrared interface a wireless interface or the button panel . The remote control is shown to include a microphone for receiving voice commands and the set top box is also shown to include a microphone for receiving voice commands.

The set top box is further shown to be connected to or to have an integrated storage device e.g. DVR hard disk compact disk floppy universal serial bus key etc. for storing files a printer for printing files and a network e.g. home network . The network in one embodiment may connect the set top box to a computer that is connected to an internet protocol phone a storage device for storing electronic files and a printer . The set top box further may include a processing module a receiving module and a communication module . The processing module receiving module and communication module may be implemented as hardware software firmware or combinations thereof. To illustrate the set top box may include a memory and one or more processors where one or both of modules and are implemented as executable instructions stored in memory and executed by the processor to implement techniques described herein. The memory is further shown to include rules that may be utilized to control the use of images that may be captured from content that is displayed on the display device . For example the rules may embodied as a digital rights management license that may be distributed with content from the content source and . As is well known in the art the license may include rules that may restrict the use of the associated content.

In a particular embodiment the content provider receives data representative of multimedia channels from each of the different content sources and and provides data representative of at least a subset of the multimedia channels to the set top box for processing and display at the display device and or output via an audio device not shown . In one embodiment the content provider may include a content module that communicates data that includes content and a control module that may communicate data that includes control information e.g. digital license that may include a rule that restricts the use of associated content. Moreover in a particular embodiment the content provider may provide data representative of an electronic programming guide EPG to the set top box for processing by the processing module and for navigation by a user via the control interface and the processing module . As described herein the EPG in one embodiment represents a unified EPG including listings for the multimedia channels provided by two or more content sources that provide multimedia channels to the content provider . To illustrate in a particular embodiment the EPG represents a navigable program guide or user interface whereby a user via the remote control or other input device can direct the processing module to navigate between multimedia channels by selecting an icon or other graphical representation of the desired channel as represented by a graphical display of the EPG . The EPG may combine representations of all of the multimedia channels from different content sources in a single list or different lists for different content sources may be displayed concurrently by the EPG . Moreover multimedia channels may be organized within the EPG based on any of a variety of characteristics such as by the program content of the multimedia channels where the program content describes the genre or categorization of the video audio program represented by the multimedia channel. Examples of various genres or categories include a comedy genre an action genre a family genre or children genre a romance genre a science fiction genre and the like.

Accordingly shows a diagrammatic representation of machine in the example form of a computer system within which a set of instructions for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein may be executed.

In alternative embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in server client network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The machine may be a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a cellular telephone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media.

The above description is illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. The scope of embodiments should therefore be determined with reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

The Abstract is provided to allow a reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

In the foregoing description of the embodiments various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting that the claimed embodiments have more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Description of the Embodiments with each claim standing on its own as a separate exemplary embodiment.

