---

title: Power save modes for a system-on-chip and a host processor of a wireless device
abstract: A system-on-chip including a host interface module configured to interface the system-on-chip to a host processor of a wireless device and to communicate with the host processor of the wireless device via a bus. The bus uses an application programming interface of the system-on-chip. The host processor uses the application programming interface to configure a power save mode of the system-on-chip. A power management module operated the system-on-chip in the power save mode without performing a handshake with the host processor via the bus in response to the host processor stopping communication with the system-on-chip. The handshake includes (i) sending a request to enter the power save mode to the host processor via the bus and (ii) receiving an acknowledgement of the request from the host processor via the bus.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09100917&OS=09100917&RS=09100917
owner: Marvell International LTD.
number: 09100917
owner_city: Hamilton
owner_country: BM
publication_date: 20140121
---
This disclosure is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 154 383 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 634 880 filed Jun. 6 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 728 542 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 957 777 filed Mar. 22 2010 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 472 056 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 684 385 filed Jun. 21 2006 which claims the benefit of i U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 738 926 filed on Nov. 21 2005 and ii U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 698 564 filed on Jul. 12 2005. The entire disclosures of the applications referenced above are incorporated herein by reference.

Portable wireless network devices include a wireless network interface that consumes power from a power supply such as a battery. In order to conserve power and extend battery life the wireless network devices often include a power saving mechanism whereby the device can turn off the interface when it is not needed. While these mechanisms are effective at conserving power they can require an undesirable amount of supervision by the device and may keep the interface awake longer than needed.

A power management system for wireless network devices includes a media access control module MAC that receives a first enable signal and based thereon selectively transmits and receives data packets. A clock generator module receives a second enable signal and based thereon selectively generates a clock signal that is communicated to the MAC. A power management module receives configuration information associated with a plurality of power savings modes. The power management module generates the first and second enable signals based on a selected one of the power savings modes and the configuration information.

A power management computer program for wireless network devices includes receiving a first enable signal at a media access control module MAC and based thereon selectively transmitting and receiving data packets receiving a second enable signal and based thereon selectively generating a clock signal and communicating the clock signal to the MAC and receiving configuration information associated with a plurality of power savings modes and generating the first and second enable signals based on the configuration information.

In other features the computer program includes generating a third enable signal based on the configuration information generating a periodic signal based on the third enable signal and communicating the periodic signal to the MAC. The computer program includes translating the configuration information between a first data bus and second data bus. The computer program includes polling a chip select signal and further generating the first and second enable signals based on the chip select signal. The configuration information indicates an access category AC and further comprising generating the first and second enable signals further based on the data packets that are associated with the indicated AC. The computer program includes generating the first and second enable signals in a first predetermined order when enabling the MAC and the clock signal and generating the first and second enable signals in a second predetermined order when disabling the MAC and the clock signal.

In other features the MAC is otherwise compatible with at least one of the Bluetooth standard Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE standard 802.11 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11h 802.11n 802.16 and 802.20. The computer program includes communicating the configuration information with a host that communicates over the first data bus. The computer program includes generating an event signal when the MAC receives one of the data packets and communicating the event signal to the host. The computer program includes generating a wakeup signal at a predetermined time and further generating the first and second enable signals based on the wakeup signal.

In other features the computer program includes generating an event signal based on a state change of at least one of the first and second enable signals. The computer program includes generating a first event signal and translating the configuration information between a first data bus and a second data bus and generating a second event signal and translating the configuration information between a third data bus and the second data bus. The first and second event signals indicate a state change of at least one of the first and second enable signals. At least one of the first and second event signals initiates based on the configuration information. The second enable signal has a regular period and the packets include data that indicates a power saving mode is enabled.

Further areas of applicability of the present invention will become apparent from the detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description and specific examples while indicating the preferred embodiment of the invention are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

The following description of the preferred embodiment s is merely exemplary in nature and is in no way intended to limit the invention its application or uses. For purposes of clarity the same reference numbers will be used in the drawings to identify similar elements. As used herein the term module circuit and or device refers to an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC an electronic circuit a processor shared dedicated or group and memory that execute one or more software or firmware programs a combinational logic circuit and or other suitable components that provide the described functionality. As used herein the phrase at least one of A B and C should be construed to mean a logical A or B or C using a non exclusive logical or. It should be understood that steps within a method may be executed in different order without altering the principles of the present invention.

Referring now to a WLAN is shown. A wireless access point WAP provides a connection between a wireless communication channel and a distributed communication system such as the Internet. A wireless station STA includes an antenna for communicating with WAP over channel . The wireless communications can be compliant with at least one of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE standards 802.11 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g 802.11h 802.11n 802.16 and 802.20 and or the Bluetooth standard published by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG . The aforementioned standards are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Antenna communicates with a SOC that includes power saving features that are described in more detail below. The power saving features can help increase battery life of a portable STA . SOC communicates with a host via a host bus and or a general purpose input output GPIO bus referred to collectively as communication buses . Communication buses communicate in pertinent part using an application programming interface API of SOC . The API accommodates predefined instructions and generates responses to the instructions which are used to configure the power saving features of SOC . Communication buses can also be used to communicate application data between SOC and host .

Referring now to a functional block diagram of SOC is shown. SOC includes various modules that are switched on and off by a power management module PMM . A CPU communicates with a memory such as RAM ROM PROM Flash EPROM and or EEPROM. Memory stores firmware for implementing the API which controls behavior of PMM . CPU implements the API and configures PMM accordingly.

An internal bus provides a communication path between CPU PMM a GPIO module and a host interface module . GPIO module and a host interface module convert and or buffer messages between internal bus and host bus and GPIO bus respectively.

GPIO module can generate a GPIO interrupt request GPIO IRQ in response to receiving a control message from host . GPIO module can also send a control signal to host via GPO bus . The GPIO IRQ and control signal can be used to flag events in the power saving features as described below.

Host bus includes a data bus an address bus a chip select signal CS a read write signal R W and an event interrupt EVENT IRQ . Address bus and CS are used to select individual registers within host interface module . R W determines whether the selected register is being read or written by data bus . Host interface generates EVENT IRQ in response to receiving a predetermined message via internal bus . EVENT IRQ can be also be used to flag events in the power saving features as described below.

Host interface module also generates a wake interrupt request signal WAKE IRQ and or a command interrupt request signal COMMAND IRQ in response to receiving predetermined respective API messages via host bus . In one configuration host interface module samples CS and generates WAKE IRQ when host asserts CS . This allows host to wake up SOC by communicating dummy data with SOC . WAKE IRQ and COMMAND IRQ are communicated to PMM . WAKE IRQ can be used to wake PMM from a low power state as described below. COMMAND IRQ can be used to indicate to PMM that an API instruction has been received at host interface module .

A media access control module MAC communicates with a baseband controller module BB . MAC also communicates with internal bus and sends and receives data to and from host through host interface module . BB receives modulated signals through a receive channel and transmits modulated signals through a transmit channel . BB bi directionally converts the modulated signals to from digital packets communicated to from MAC . Receive channel includes an RF demodulator that communicates with an RF switch . Transmit channel includes an RF modulator that communicates with RF switch . RF switch connects one of receive and transmit channels to antenna at any given time.

PMM selectively receives a sleep clock signal from either an internal clock or an external clock . PMM configures internal clock and or external clock to generate sleep clock signal to wake PMM at a predetermined time and or period as is described below. The API controls a switch that selects whether internal clock or external clock provides sleep clock signal . PMM generates a clock configuration signal for configuring internal clock and or external clock .

An external oscillator XOSC generates a periodic signal that serves as a time base for various modules of SOC . A phase locked loop PLL generates additional frequencies from the accurate PLL signal. A clock driver module generates a plurality of clock signals CLK based on the frequencies form PLL .. The plurality of clock signals are communicated to MAC BB and receive and transmit channels based on their respective clock requirements. PMM can generate a clock enable signal to selectively enable and disable clock signals . PMM also generates a PLL enable signal and an XOSC enable signal in accordance with a method described below. The method coordinates the timing of enable signals a TX RX enable signal and an RF enable signal to provide controlled power up and power down sequences for their associated modules of SOC . TX RX enable signal controls power to MAC and BB . RF enable signal controls power to receive and transmit channels .

Details of communications between host SOC and WAP will now be provided for various power savings modes of SOC . The power savings modes operate in various combinations of host and SOC being awake or asleep individually. In the following descriptions the communications between host and SOC occur over host bus and or GPIO bus . Also references to SOC going into a sleep mode and an awake mode indicate that PMM will accordingly power down and power up various internal modules of SOC in accordance with the power up and power down sequences which is described below.

Referring now to a protocol diagram is shown of communications between host and SOC when SOC remains in an active mode and host goes to sleep. At host sends a host wakeup configuration command to SOC . The command indicates that host would like to go to sleep and includes an instruction as to whether host will listen for GPIO IRQ2 or EVENT IRQ to be woken up by SOC . The command can also indicate that host would like to be awoken only for data that belongs to one or more specified access category AC . At SOC sends a confirmation message to host and discontinues communicating with host .

At SOC can send GPIO IRQ2 to host to indicate that an event has occurred such as the link has been lost over channel or data has been received for host . If host specified an AC in the configuration command then the data must match the AC for SOC to indicate that an event has occurred. If the data matches the AC then SOC generates the GPIO IRQ2 or EVENT IRQ at . At host sends a wakeup confirmation message to SOC . At SOC sends a wakeup confirmation response message to host . The wakeup confirmation and wakeup confirmation response messages can be communicated over host interface . After host is awake and can communicate with SOC . Host remains awake until it determines that it can go back to sleep and sends another host wakeup configuration command to SOC at . The process repeats after until host issues an API command to terminate or change the power saving mode of SOC .

Referring now to a protocol diagram is shown of communications between host and SOC when SOC goes to sleep and host remains awake. Such an arrangement is used for example when host configures SOC to sleep and wake only at regular intervals to receive a periodic beacon signal and or periodic data sent by WAP . At host sends a power save enter command to SOC . The command indicates that host would like SOC to sleep and includes an instruction as to when SOC should awake. The PMM then configures sleep clock signal to notify SOC when to go to sleep and when to wake up in accordance with the instruction. At SOC issues a power save enter response and waits for sleep clock signal to indicate that it is time for SOC to sleep. At SOC receives sleep clock signal and issues a sleep event signal via GPIO IRQ2 or EVENT IRQ as configured by host . Host then issues a sleep confirm signal at . SOC goes to sleep upon receiving the sleep confirm signal. Host should not attempt to communicate with SOC while it is asleep or data will be lost. At sleep clock signal wakes SOC . SOC immediately sends a power save awake event signal to host via GPIO IRQ2 or EVENT IRQ as configured by host . Host can then resume communicating with SOC until sleep clock signal again indicates that it is time for SOC to sleep and SOC issues another sleep event signal . Signals repeat until host issues an API command to terminate or change the power saving mode of SOC .

Referring now to a first protocol diagram is shown of communications between host and SOC when host would like both to sleep. In the protocol diagram SOC is already configured go to sleep according to sleep clock signal . Host sleep and SOC sleep are then synchronized to prevent messages from being lost between the two due to race conditions. The protocol assumes that SOC has already been configured to sleep as shown above in and that host does not desire to change the configuration. At SOC issues the sleep event signal. At host issues the sleep confirm signal and the host and SOC go to sleep until SOC wakes up at in accordance with the host wakeup configuration command. When SOC wakes up at it follows steps of to wake up host .

Referring now to a protocol diagram is shown of communications between host and SOC when host would like both to sleep. In the protocol diagram SOC is already configured go to sleep according to sleep clock signal . Host sleep and SOC sleep are then synchronized to prevent messages from being lost between the two due to race conditions. The protocol of differs from in that host would like to change the power saving mode of SOC before SOC goes to sleep. At SOC issues the sleep event signal. At host replies with the host wakeup configuration command as described in . At SOC then replies with a host wakeup configuration response as described in . At host issues a host wakeup configuration done command to indicate that SOC can go to sleep. After host and SOC go to sleep until SOC wakes up at in accordance with the host wakeup configuration command. When SOC wakes up at it follows steps of to wake up host .

Referring now to a timing diagram is shown of a periodic sleep mode of operating SOC . The periodic sleep mode is useful when SOC is sending and receiving packets over channel at a predetermined period such as when SOC is implementing a quality of service enhanced QOS wireless protocol. QOS protocols can be used when an application running on host requires data and or generates data at a predetermined rate. Such applications include without limitation digital television digital audio and voice over internet protocol VoIP telephony.

Host configures SOC to enter the periodic sleep mode by first sending a configuration message to SOC via the API. The configuration message includes an instruction as to whether host will listen for GPIO IRQ2 or EVENT IRQ to determine when SOC wakes up. The configuration message also specifies a period between SOC wake events and specifies whether SOC will handle only uplink from SOC to WAP downlink from WAP to SOC or bidirectional data flow. The period between SOC wake events can be based on data throughput needs of host .

SOC can also support several simultaneous periodic sleep modes. For example SOC can be configured to wake up at the specified period described above and configured again to wake up for one or more periodic beacons specified by a protocol of channel .

At a time host sends the periodic sleep mode configuration message to SOC . PMM configures sleep clock signal to wake SOC in accordance with the specified period. At a time sleep clock signal wakes SOC and SOC sends EVENT IRQ to host . If SOC is configured in one of the uplink and bidirectional modes then SOC waits for host to provide a packet to send to WAP . SOC then sends the packet with a power management PM bit cleared to indicate that SOC is awake and WAP should therefore send any packets that it has buffered for SOC . Alternatively if SOC is configured in the downlink mode then SOC sends a null packet with the PM bit cleared to WAP . The null packet indicates that SOC does not have data to send. At time SOC is finished communicating data and or reaches an end of service period EOSP . SOC then sends a null data frame to WAP and a sleep request to host . At time host acknowledges the sleep request and SOC calculates its next wake up time. PMM then configures sleep clock signal to wake SOC at the beginning of the next wake period before putting SOC to sleep at time . Shaded areas indicate periods when SOC is awake.

SOC can decide to go to back to sleep on conditions other than running out of data and or reaching the EOSP at time . For example SOC can also go back to sleep upon sending and or receiving a number of packets that exceeds a predetermined packet count. SOC can also go back to sleep due to an inactivity timeout if channel becomes quiet. SOC can also go back to sleep when WAP indicates that it has no more data to send to SOC .

The sleep request from SOC at time and the acknowledgement from host at time comprise a sleep handshake. The sleep handshake causes SOC to stay awake longer than necessary and can be implemented in other ways that let SOC go to sleep quicker.

Referring now to alternative methods of implementing the sleep handshake are shown. The alternative methods allow SOC to enter the sleep mode without having to stay up to wait for the acknowledgement from host . The alternative sleep handshake methods of therefore allow host to go to sleep quicker than the sleep handshake of .

Referring now to a first alternative method of providing the sleep handshake is shown. SOC receives one or more packets from WAP and forwards them to host . At time WAP indicates that the packet is a last packet. Upon host receiving the last packet form SOC host understands that SOC sleep is imminent. Host therefore stops communicating with SOC . At time SOC sends the null packet to WAP and goes to sleep.

Referring now to a second alternative method of providing the sleep handshake is shown. SOC receives a packet from WAP at time and forwards it to host . When host receives the packet it understands that SOC sleep is imminent. Host therefore stops communicating with SOC at time . At time SOC sends the null packet to WAP and goes to sleep.

Referring now to a timing diagram is shown of a second periodic sleep mode of operating SOC . The second periodic sleep mode uses 802.11 Power Save PS polls to implement periodic power save when STA uses 802.11 WLAN to transmit receive periodic traffic flow. By way of non limiting example periodic traffic flow can occur with voice and or video streams. STA does not exit and re enter the 802.11 PS mode.

SOC will wake up periodically with a period specified by host . The period can be set to coincide with 802.11 DTIM beacons to receive any multicast traffic and or set to coincide with beacons that synchronize the 802.11 local timing synch function TSF .

The wake up sequence of SOC will now be described. The following example assumes a single periodic data flow between STA and WAP wherein one data packet is sent in both directions each time SOC wakes up. When SOC wakes up it sends an awake event to host . Awake event can be sent via GPIO IRQ2 . At a time host communicates data to SOC for subsequent transmission. During period SOC transmits an 802.11 PS polling message with the PM bit set to 1. During a period WAP responds to the PS polling message by sending buffered data to STA . STA monitors an 802.11 More Data bit in a frame received from WAP . If the More Data bit is set in the received frame then SOC sends another PS polling message to WAP . At time SOC communicates the buffered data to host . During a period SOC transmits the data that was communicated from host at time . The data is transmitted with the PM bit set to 1.

SOC begins to enter the sleep state when it receives a frame from WAP with the More Data bit set to 0 and host indicates it has no more data to transmit. SOC also begins to enter the sleep state when a pre determined timeout occurs waiting for the aforementioned conditions to occur. Before going to sleep SOC sends a sleep request to host . Host then responds with a sleep confirm response . Upon receiving sleep confirm response SOC computes the time until its next wake up and configures sleep clock signal accordingly. Ater host sends sleep confirm response it does not access SOC until it receives another awake event .

Referring now to a timing diagram is shown of the various enable signals as SOC wakes up and goes to sleep. PMM remains awake when SOC is in one of the power save modes.

Beginning from the left timing diagram assumes that SOC is asleep. When PMM receives an indication at that SOC needs to wake up it immediately asserts XOSC enable signal to energize XOSC . In some embodiments SOC can include a power supply that reduces a digital supply voltage when SOC is asleep. In those embodiments the digital supply voltage can also be increased when PMM receives the indication at . PMM can receive the indication to wake up from sleep clock signal and or from host . PMM waits a predetermined time for the output frequency of XOSC to stabilize before asserting PLL enable signal at time to energize PLL . PMM then waits a predetermined amount of time for PLL to stabilize before asserting clock enable signal at time to energize clock driver module . PMM then waits a predetermined time before issuing the event awake signal to host over GPIO IRQ2 or EVENT IRQ as configured by host . PMM then waits a predetermined time for host to awake before asserting TX RX enable signal at time . PMM then waits a predetermined time for BB and MAC to stabilize before asserting RF enable signal to enable receive and transmit channel at time . At a time the receive and transmit channels have stabilized and SOC is ready to communicate messages over channel . It is appreciated by those skilled in the art that the aforementioned sequence events may be rearranged based on stabilization times of the various modules associated with the enable signals.

At time SOC begins to go to sleep in accordance with the power savings mode selected by host . PMM waits for MAC and BB to complete sending and or receiving their respective packets before relinquishing TX RX enable signal at time . PMM then polls receive and transmit channels until they are idle before relinquishing RF enable signal at time . At time PMM finishes putting SOC to sleep by sequentially relinquishing clock enable signal PLL enable signal and XOSC enable signal respectively.

Referring now to various exemplary implementations of the present invention are shown. Referring now to the present invention can be implemented in a network accessed storage module NAS that includes a hard disk drive . The present invention may implement and or be implemented in a WLAN module which is generally identified in at . In some implementations signal processing and or control circuit and or other circuits not shown in the HDD may process data communicate with WLAN module perform coding and or encryption perform calculations and or format data that is output to and or received from a magnetic storage medium .

The HDD may communicate with another networked device not shown such as a computer a mobile computing device such as a personal digital assistant cellular phone media or MP3 player and the like and or other device via one or more wired links and or WLAN module . The HDD may be connected to memory such as random access memory RAM low latency nonvolatile memory such as flash memory read only memory ROM and or other suitable electronic data storage. The HDD may also include a power supply module .

Referring now to the present invention can be implemented in a digital versatile disc DVD drive . The present invention may implement and or be implemented in a WLAN module which is generally identified in at . Signal processing and or control circuit and or other circuits not shown in the DVD drive may process data perform coding and or encryption perform calculations and or format data that is read from and or data written to an optical storage medium . In some implementations the signal processing and or control circuit and or other circuits not shown in the DVD drive can also perform other functions such as encoding and or decoding and or any other signal processing functions associated with a DVD drive.

The DVD drive may communicate with an output device not shown such as a computer television or other device via one or more wired links and or wireless links via WLAN module . The DVD drive may communicate with mass data storage that stores data in a nonvolatile manner. The mass data storage may include a hard disk drive HDD . The HDD may have the configuration shown in . The HDD may be a mini HDD that includes one or more platters having a diameter that is smaller than approximately 1.8 . The DVD drive may be connected to memory such as RAM ROM low latency nonvolatile memory such as flash memory and or other suitable electronic data storage. The DVD drive may also include a power supply .

Referring now to the present invention can be implemented in a high definition television HDTV . The present invention may implement and or be implemented in either or both signal processing and or control circuits which are generally identified in at and a WLAN interface .

The HDTV receives HDTV input signals in either a wired or wireless format and generates HDTV output signals for a display . In some implementations signal processing circuit and or control circuit and or other circuits not shown of the HDTV may process data perform coding and or encryption perform calculations format data and or perform any other type of HDTV processing that may be required.

The HDTV may communicate with mass data storage that stores data in a nonvolatile manner such as optical and or magnetic storage devices. At least one HDD may have the configuration shown in and or at least one DVD may have the configuration shown in . The HDD may be a mini HDD that includes one or more platters having a diameter that is smaller than approximately 1.8 . The HDTV may be connected to memory such as RAM ROM low latency nonvolatile memory such as flash memory and or other suitable electronic data storage. The HDTV also may include a power supply .

Referring now to the present invention may implement and or be implemented in a WLAN interface of a vehicle . A powertrain control system receives inputs from one or more sensors such as temperature sensors pressure sensors rotational sensors airflow sensors and or any other suitable sensors and or that generates one or more output control signals such as engine operating parameters transmission operating parameters and or other control signals.

The present invention may also be implemented in other control systems of the vehicle . The control system may likewise receive signals from input sensors and or output control signals to one or more output devices . In some implementations the control system may be part of an anti lock braking system ABS a navigation system a telematics system a vehicle telematics system a lane departure system an adaptive cruise control system a vehicle entertainment system such as a stereo DVD compact disc and the like. Still other implementations are contemplated.

The powertrain control system may communicate with mass data storage that stores data in a nonvolatile manner. The mass data storage may include optical and or magnetic storage devices for example hard disk drives HDD and or DVDs. At least one HDD may have the configuration shown in and or at least one DVD may have the configuration shown in . The HDD may be a mini HDD that includes one or more platters having a diameter that is smaller than approximately 1.8 . The powertrain control system may be connected to memory such as RAM ROM low latency nonvolatile memory such as flash memory and or other suitable electronic data storage. The powertrain control system also may support connections with a WLAN via WLAN interface . Vehicle may also include a power supply .

Referring now to the present invention can be implemented in a cellular phone that may include a cellular antenna . The present invention may implement and or be implemented in a WLAN interface . In some implementations the cellular phone includes a microphone an audio output such as a speaker and or audio output jack a display and or an input device such as a keypad pointing device voice actuation and or other input device. The signal processing and or control circuits and or other circuits not shown in the cellular phone may process data perform coding and or encryption perform calculations format data and or perform other cellular phone functions.

The cellular phone may communicate with mass data storage that stores data in a nonvolatile manner such as optical and or magnetic storage devices for example hard disk drives HDD and or DVDs. At least one HDD may have the configuration shown in and or at least one DVD may have the configuration shown in . The HDD may be a mini HDD that includes one or more platters having a diameter that is smaller than approximately 1.8 . The cellular phone may be connected to memory such as RAM ROM low latency nonvolatile memory such as flash memory and or other suitable electronic data storage. The cellular phone also may support connections with a WLAN via WLAN interface . Cellular phone may also include a power supply .

Referring now to the present invention can be implemented in a set top box . The present invention may implement and or be implemented in a WLAN interface . The set top box receives signals from a source such as a broadband source and outputs standard and or high definition audio video signals suitable for a display such as a television and or monitor and or other video and or audio output devices. The signal processing and or control circuits and or other circuits not shown of the set top box may process data perform coding and or encryption perform calculations format data and or perform any other set top box function.

The set top box may communicate with mass data storage that stores data in a nonvolatile manner. The mass data storage may include optical and or magnetic storage devices for example hard disk drives HDD and or DVDs. At least one HDD may have the configuration shown in and or at least one DVD may have the configuration shown in . The HDD may be a mini HDD that includes one or more platters having a diameter that is smaller than approximately 1.8 . The set top box may be connected to memory such as RAM ROM low latency nonvolatile memory such as flash memory and or other suitable electronic data storage. The set top box also may support connections with a WLAN via WLAN interface . Set top box may also include a power supply .

Referring now to the present invention can be implemented in a media player . The present invention may implement and or be implemented in a WLAN interface . In some implementations the media player includes a display and or a user input such as a keypad touchpad and the like. In some implementations the media player may employ a graphical user interface GUI that typically employs menus drop down menus icons and or a point and click interface via the display and or user input . The media player further includes an audio output such as a speaker and or audio output jack. The signal processing and or control circuits and or other circuits not shown of the media player may process data perform coding and or encryption perform calculations format data and or perform any other media player function.

The media player may communicate with mass data storage that stores data such as compressed audio and or video content in a nonvolatile manner. In some implementations the compressed audio files include files that are compliant with MP3 format or other suitable compressed audio and or video formats. The mass data storage may include optical and or magnetic storage devices for example hard disk drives HDD and or DVDs. At least one HDD may have the configuration shown in and or at least one DVD may have the configuration shown in . The HDD may be a mini HDD that includes one or more platters having a diameter that is smaller than approximately 1.8 . The media player may be connected to memory such as RAM ROM low latency nonvolatile memory such as flash memory and or other suitable electronic data storage. The media player also may support connections with a WLAN via WLAN interface . Media player may also include a power supply . Still other implementations in addition to those described above are contemplated.

Those skilled in the art can now appreciate from the foregoing description that the broad teachings of the present invention can be implemented in a variety of forms. Therefore while this invention has been described in connection with particular examples thereof the true scope of the invention should not be so limited since other modifications will become apparent to the skilled practitioner upon a study of the drawings the specification and the following claims.

