---

title: Systems and methods to compute carbon footprint of network services with network function virtualization (NFV) and software defined networking (SDN)
abstract: A method, through a server, to determine carbon footprint of a network service, in a network, includes determining power consumption and cooling requirements of network devices associated with the network service; determining associated carbon footprint coefficients for power sources associated with each of the network devices; and determining carbon footprint of the network service based on the power consumption, the cooling requirements, and the associated carbon footprint coefficients.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09614743&OS=09614743&RS=09614743
owner: Ciena Corporation
number: 09614743
owner_city: Hanover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140820
---
The present disclosure relates generally to networking systems and methods. More particularly the present disclosure relates to systems and methods to track carbon footprint of network and cloud services.

A carbon footprint has historically been defined as the total sets of greenhouse gas emissions caused by an organization event product or person. Corporations and enterprises are undertaking green initiatives to use renewable power sources and or to lower the enterprise data center power costs. With the emergence of cloud services corporations and enterprises are shifting from their private infrastructures to the hybrid and public cloud infrastructures. There is a need to measure and assign carbon footprint CF proportionately to corporations and enterprises based on the network compute and storage usage of these infrastructures across the service providers to assess impact of green initiatives.

In an exemplary embodiment a method through a server to determine carbon footprint of a network service in a network includes determining power consumption and cooling requirements of network devices associated with the network service determining associated carbon footprint coefficients for power sources associated with each of the network devices and determining carbon footprint of the network service based on the power consumption the cooling requirements and the associated carbon footprint coefficients. The power consumption and the cooling requirements of the network devices can be determined for all equipment at each of the network devices and apportioned to the network service based on how much the network service uses at each of the network devices. The power consumption and the cooling requirements of the network devices can be determined based on current inventory of modules at each of the network devices. The network devices can include L L and L components in a multi layer network and a plurality of servers operating Virtual Machines and wherein the network service is at L L and L over the multi layer network and one or more of the Virtual Machines. The method can further include operating a hypervisor to manage Network Function Virtualization through one or more Virtual Machines associated with the network service. The method can further include relocating the one or more Virtual Machines based on determining a reduced carbon footprint. The server can be a Software Defined Networking controller.

In another exemplary embodiment a server configured to determine carbon footprint of a network service in a network includes a network interface a processor and a data store each communicatively coupled to one another and memory storing computer executable instructions that when executed cause the processor to determine power consumption and cooling requirements of network devices associated with the network service determine associated carbon footprint coefficients for power sources associated with each of the network devices and determine carbon footprint of the network service based on the power consumption the cooling requirements and the associated carbon footprint coefficients. The power consumption and the cooling requirements of the network devices can be determined for all equipment at each of the network devices and apportioned to the network service based on how much the network service uses at each of the network devices. The power consumption and the cooling requirements of the network devices can be determined based on current inventory of modules at each of the network devices. The network devices can include L L and L components in a multi layer network and a plurality of servers operating Virtual Machines and wherein the network service is at L L and L over the multi layer network and one or more of the Virtual Machines. The memory storing computer executable instructions that when executed can further cause the processor to operate a hypervisor to manage Network Function Virtualization through one or more Virtual Machines associated with the network service. The memory storing computer executable instructions that when executed can further cause the processor to cause relocation of the one or more Virtual Machines based on determining a reduced carbon footprint. The server can be a Software Defined Networking controller.

In a further exemplary embodiment a network configured to provide a network service includes a plurality of interconnected network devices and a controller comprising a network interface a processor and a data store each communicatively coupled to one another and memory storing computer executable instructions that when executed cause the processor to determine power consumption and cooling requirements of network devices associated with the network service determine associated carbon footprint coefficients for power sources associated with each of the network devices and determine carbon footprint of the network service based on the power consumption the cooling requirements and the associated carbon footprint coefficients. The power consumption and the cooling requirements of the network devices can be determined for all equipment at each of the network devices and apportioned to the network service based on how much the network service uses at each of the network devices. The power consumption and the cooling requirements of the network devices can be determined based on current inventory of modules at each of the network devices. The network devices can include L L and L components in a multi layer network and a plurality of servers operating Virtual Machines and wherein the network service is at L L and L over the multi layer network and one or more of the Virtual Machines. The memory storing computer executable instructions that when executed can further cause the processor to operate a hypervisor to manage Network Function Virtualization through one or more Virtual Machines associated with the network service. The memory storing computer executable instructions that when executed can further cause the processor to cause relocation of the one or more Virtual Machines based on determining a reduced carbon footprint.

In various exemplary embodiments systems and methods to track carbon footprint of the network and cloud services are described. The systems and methods can use a Network Function Virtualization NFV application and or a Software Defined Network SDN application to create customized strategies to measure providing the ability to trade and historically track the carbon footprint when compute storage and network services are used by enterprises. The systems and methods empower service providers data center providers utilities and corporations to work together to start measuring the carbon footprint CF impact of the compute storage and network services. The systems and methods provide differentiation in the SDN controller and SDN NFV application space to provide a leg up on the competition. It is expected that network operators will increase revenue and recognition based on providing accurate carbon footprint data. Finally the systems and methods provide an optimized method to calculate carbon footprint to enable optimization in the network.

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a network diagram illustrates an exemplary SDN network . The SDN network is shown for illustration purposes to describe SDN functionality at Layers and . Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that any SDN network configuration at Layers and is contemplated. The SDN network is an SDN network which includes an SDN controller with the ability to centrally program provisioning of forwarding on the network in order for more flexible and precise control over network resources to support new services. OpenFlow www.openflow.org is an implementation of this which requires a special OpenFlow interface from the SDN controller via mediation software to each switch in the network in order to provision the forwarding table at each switch along a connection path in order to instantiate the forwarding behavior needed for the connection. OpenFlow is described for example in the OpenFlow Switch Speciation Version 1.1.0 February 2011 Version 1.3.0 June 2012 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein. Other SDN protocols besides OpenFlow are also contemplated with the systems and methods described herein.

Again for illustration purposes the SDN network includes an OpenFlow packet switch various packet optical switches and packet switches with the switches each communicatively coupled to the SDN controller via the OpenFlow interface and the mediation software at any of Layers L being DWDM L being OTN and L being Ethernet . The switches again for illustration purposes only are located at various sites including an Ethernet Wide Area Network WAN a carrier cloud Central Office CO and data center an enterprise data center a Reconfigurable Optical Add Drop Multiplexer ROADM ring a switched OTN site another enterprise data center a central office and another carrier cloud Central Office CO and data center . Again the network is shown just to provide context and typical configurations at Layers in an SDN network for illustration purposes.

The switches can operate via SDN at Layers . The OpenFlow packet switch for example can be a large scale Layer Ethernet switch that operates via the SDN controller at Layer L . The packet optical switches can operate at any of Layers in combination. At Layer the packet optical switches can provide wavelength connectivity such as via DWDM ROADMs etc. at Layer the packet optical switches can provide time division multiplexing TDM layer connectivity such as via Optical Transport Network OTN Synchronous Optical Network SONET Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH etc. and at Layer the packet optical switches can provide Ethernet packet switching. An exemplary configuration of the packet optical switches and the OpenFlow packet switch is illustrated in . The packet switches can be traditional Ethernet switches that are not controlled by the SDN controller . Note the network can include various additional network elements and devices such as without limitation Storage Area Networking SAN devices high performance blade servers wireless access points and or base stations security appliances servers running Virtual Machines VMs Local Area Networking LAN switches hubs and or bridges NFV devices and the like.

In an exemplary embodiment the systems and methods include an application which tracks power usages through the SDN network in the data centers and through the access technologies such that carbon footprint can be computed. This information can be granular on per user or group of users basis. Based on the carbon footprint information enterprises can optimize their network services such as through migration to providers with lower carbon footprint moving virtualized data centers over the day to maximize usage of green power participate in carbon credit trading such as through the International Emissions Trading Association IETA and the like.

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a block diagram illustrates functional components of the SDN controller . The SDN controller can be a server or the like such as illustrated in and the functional components can be implemented in software executed on the server. The SDN controller includes an infrastructure layer a control layer and an application layer . The infrastructure layer is communicatively coupled to network devices such as the switches via a control plane interface such as OpenFlow. The infrastructure layer allows communication between the SDN controller and the network devices. The control layer includes SDN control software with a plurality of network services . The control layer provides SDN functionality to manage network services through abstraction of lower level functionality. The application layer communicates to the control layer through various Application Programming Interfaces APIs . The application layer provides end user connectivity to the SDN such as software modules and or functions responsible for creating desired path and flow connections on the physical network through various business applications . In an exemplary embodiment the systems and methods to measure and track CF are implemented as one of the business applications .

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a block diagram illustrates a server which may be used to realize the SDN controller in other systems or standalone. The server may be a digital computer that in terms of hardware architecture generally includes a processor input output I O interfaces a network interface a data store and memory . It should be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that depicts the server in an oversimplified manner and a practical embodiment may include additional components and suitably configured processing logic to support known or conventional operating features that are not described in detail herein. The components and are communicatively coupled via a local interface . The local interface may be for example but not limited to one or more buses or other wired or wireless connections as is known in the art. The local interface may have additional elements which are omitted for simplicity such as controllers buffers caches drivers repeaters and receivers among many others to enable communications. Further the local interface may include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications between the aforementioned components.

The processor is a hardware device for executing software instructions. The processor may be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the server a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set or generally any device for executing software instructions. When the server is in operation the processor is configured to execute software stored within the memory to communicate data to and from the memory and to generally control operations of the server pursuant to the software instructions. The I O interfaces may be used to receive user input from and or for providing system output to one or more devices or components. User input may be provided via for example a keyboard touch pad and or a mouse. System output may be provided via a display device and a printer not shown . I O interfaces may include for example a serial port a parallel port a small computer system interface SCSI a serial ATA SATA a fiber channel Infiniband iSCSI a PCI Express interface PCI x an infrared IR interface a radio frequency RF interface and or a universal serial bus USB interface.

The network interface may be used to enable the server to communicate on a network such as the Internet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN and the like etc. The network interface may include for example an Ethernet card or adapter e.g. 10BaseT Fast Ethernet Gigabit Ethernet 10GbE or a wireless local area network WLAN card or adapter e.g. 802.11a b g n . The network interface may include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications on the network. A data store may be used to store data. The data store may include any of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM and the like nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM and the like and combinations thereof. Moreover the data store may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. In one example the data store may be located internal to the server such as for example an internal hard drive connected to the local interface in the server . Additionally in another embodiment the data store may be located external to the server such as for example an external hard drive connected to the I O interfaces e.g. SCSI or USB connection . In a further embodiment the data store may be connected to the server through a network such as for example a network attached file server.

The memory may include any of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. and combinations thereof. Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory may have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remotely from one another but can be accessed by the processor . The software in memory may include one or more software programs each of which includes an ordered list of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. The software in the memory includes a suitable operating system O S and one or more programs . The operating system essentially controls the execution of other computer programs such as the one or more programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services. The one or more programs may be configured to implement the various processes algorithms methods techniques etc. described herein.

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a network diagram illustrates a logical network providing a network service to an enterprise or user i.e. an enterprise . To provide the network service the enterprise connects to network access devices which connect to SDN network devices to provide network functions through NFV network devices . Note the access devices can also be part of the SDN network devices as well such that there are just two components the SDN network devices and the NFV network devices . The access devices and the SDN network devices can be similar to the various components in the SDN network in . The NFV network devices can include various devices appliances components etc. that decouple the network functions such as network address translation NAT firewalling intrusion detection Domain Name Service DNS caching data storage computing etc. from proprietary hardware appliances so they can run in software. Note each of the devices can be either communicatively coupled to the server or have associated data stored in the server . Further each of the devices is physical hardware that is powered from a power source enabling a carbon footprint calculation for its operation. In various exemplary embodiments the systems and methods described herein can apportion the enterprise usage of the devices for the network service and provide the carbon footprint based thereon.

This computed carbon footprint can become a network parameter in the SDN network the SDN network devices and the NFV network devices . The network parameter can be used for routing e.g. preference lower carbon footprint devices for green optimization e.g. moving Virtual Machines VM to lower carbon footprints and the like. The carbon footprint can be computed when the network service is provisioned such as to become a routing parameter to minimize carbon footprint. The carbon footprint can also be computed over time to become a parameter that may be optimized by moving the network service.

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a flow chart illustrates a carbon footprint computation process . The process contemplates operation on the SDN controller the server or the like for a network service associated with the enterprise or a single user . The process includes determining a network service step . The network service describes which devices are used by the enterprise and how to apportion the power and carbon footprint for each of the devices to the enterprise . Specifically it is assumed that the enterprise will only use a portion of the devices so the process includes only apportioning the amount of power and carbon footprint being used by the enterprise .

The process includes determining power consumption of the devices associated with the network service step . This is described in detail herein. For example power consumption for equipment in the devices can be determined on a per card or per chassis basis. The power consumption can be determined by identifying what hardware is being used in the devices and performing a database lookup for associated power consumption. Alternatively the determined power consumption can be provided automatically by hardware software and or firmware associated with the devices i.e. management software of the devices can provide the power consumption values.

The process includes determining power sources for the devices and the associated carbon footprint coefficients step . In order to calculate the carbon footprint based on the known power consumption from the step the chassis power source s need to be determined each of which will have an associated carbon footprint CF coefficient. It is assumed this coefficient will be dynamic and could be estimated but it would be best if the power generators provided a way to get their dynamic value. If estimation is needed EPA data are used. For example emissions from electricity generation based off figures from the EPA s eGRID emission factors based on 2009 and 2012 data are on average electricity sources emit 1.2221 bs COper kWh 0.0005925 metric tons COper kWh . Also COemissions per kWh may vary greatly in accordance with the amount of clean energy in the energy supply.

For an example of how a power source s coefficient might vary Florida Power and Light has a site that uses solar energy when available. During night time and weather related interruption it switches to natural gas which would have a higher coefficient compared to solar. With this dynamic carbon footprint aspect it may make sense for an enterprise to move its Virtual Machines VMs from one data center DC to another in an attempt to follow the sun if the carbon footprint savings is greater than the carbon footprint cost of moving the VMs. The process can have details of the power source and perform a lookup or the process can automatically retrieve details of the power source over a network by connecting to the power provider.

Once the power consumption and the carbon footprint coefficient are known the process can compute the carbon footprint of the network service step . Again for a network service 1 a carbon footprint calculation is needed for the service establishment turning up new or reusing existing layer s resources and 2 a carbon footprint calculation is needed for the usage during its lifespan. Note there is a carbon footprint value when no traffic is flowing idle due to lasers being on how much power is attributed to each service using a wavelength needs to be determined . There is an additional carbon footprint value when traffic is flowing due to circuitry working . There is a need for metering to help determine how much power is attributed to each service using the resources. Thus the power consumption of the devices is well documented and the carbon footprint associated with each can be proportionally attributed to the enterprise . For the devices the process can estimate a carbon footprint value based on provided power consumption specifications and proportionally divide by the total number of services using the equipment.

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a network diagram illustrates a network with a hypervisor . The network for illustration purposes includes the SDN network with three exemplary data centers . The hypervisor is software firmware and or hardware that creates and runs Virtual Machines VMs . In an exemplary aspect the systems and methods contemplate using computed carbon footprints to initiate movement of the VMs for the network service. The hypervisor can be a network resource broker and scheduling application that offers immediate or scheduled bandwidth on demand to the enterprise through an end user portal or applications such as cloud and NFV orchestration systems via its open northbound API. Additionally the hypervisor can include a network service health monitoring application a Web portal application a data center integration application that orchestrates bandwidth on demand from the enterprise data center across multiple network operator domains to the selected cloud provider based on transaction auto detection and On demand Service Virtual Private Networks VPNs .

The process can be utilized to compute the carbon footprint to move VMs. A Path Computation Engine PCE can use the maximum carbon footprint as service constraint when finding a route for the connection request. The route with the lowest carbon footprint is returned if requested. As VM requests are received the carbon footprint cost of network usage due to VM movement can be computed. If the new Data Center DC has a lower carbon footprint than the old DC it makes sense to allow the movement to execute. The computed carbon footprint due to movement is then added to the enterprise associated with the VM.

Now data centers are being deployed commercially with co location creating choice for the enterprise . There is a need for commercial data center operators to differentiate their service and the process offers an opportunity to market the data center based on reduced carbon footprint. Additionally the enterprise can utilize multiple data centers concurrently as well as move IT assets over time.

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a block diagram of a mobile device which may be used with the systems and methods described herein. For example the mobile device can include without limitation a smart phone a radio a tablet a vehicle modem etc. The mobile device can be a digital device that in terms of hardware architecture generally includes a processor input output I O interfaces a radio a data store and memory . It should be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that depicts the mobile device in an oversimplified manner and a practical embodiment may include additional components and suitably configured processing logic to support known or conventional operating features that are not described in detail herein. The components and are communicatively coupled via a local interface . The local interface can be for example but not limited to one or more buses or other wired or wireless connections as is known in the art. The local interface can have additional elements which are omitted for simplicity such as controllers buffers caches drivers repeaters and receivers among many others to enable communications. Further the local interface may include address control and or data connections to enable appropriate communications between the aforementioned components.

The processor is a hardware device for executing software instructions. The processor can be any custom made or commercially available processor a central processing unit CPU an auxiliary processor among several processors associated with the mobile device a semiconductor based microprocessor in the form of a microchip or chip set or generally any device for executing software instructions. When the mobile device is in operation the processor is configured to execute software stored within the memory to communicate data to and from the memory and to generally control operations of the mobile device pursuant to the software instructions. In an exemplary embodiment the processor may include a mobile optimized processor such as optimized for power consumption and mobile applications. The I O interfaces can be used to receive user input from and or for providing system output. User input can be provided via for example a keypad a touch screen a scroll ball a scroll bar buttons bar code scanner and the like. System output can be provided via a display device such as a liquid crystal display LCD touch screen and the like. The I O interfaces can also include for example a serial port a parallel port a small computer system interface SCSI an infrared IR interface a radio frequency RF interface a universal serial bus USB interface and the like. The I O interfaces can include a graphical user interface GUI that enables a user to interact with the mobile device .

The radio enables wireless communication to an external access device or network. Any number of suitable wireless data communication protocols techniques or methodologies can be supported by the radio including without limitation RF IrDA infrared Bluetooth ZigBee and other variants of the IEEE 802.15 protocol IEEE 802.11 any variation IEEE 802.16 WiMAX or any other variation Direct Sequence Spread Spectrum Frequency Hopping Spread Spectrum Long Term Evolution LTE cellular wireless cordless telecommunication protocols e.g. 3G 4G etc. wireless home network communication protocols paging network protocols magnetic induction satellite data communication protocols wireless hospital or health care facility network protocols such as those operating in the WMTS bands proprietary wireless data communication protocols such as variants of Wireless USB and any other protocols for wireless communication. The data store may be used to store data. The data store may include any of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM and the like nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM and the like and combinations thereof. Moreover the data store may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media.

The memory may include any of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive etc. and combinations thereof. Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. Note that the memory may have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remotely from one another but can be accessed by the processor . The software in memory can include one or more software programs each of which includes an ordered list of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. In the example of the software in the memory includes a suitable operating system O S and programs . The operating system essentially controls the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services. The programs may include various applications add ons etc. configured to provide end user functionality with the mobile device including those mobile device functions set forth herein.

The process also contemplates operation with an individual user i.e. with the mobile device . The personal carbon footprint can be calculated from bandwidth usage. For smart phones i.e. the mobile device the process can track the bandwidth through the multi layer network and allocate the carbon footprint proportionately. The more bandwidth the more carbon footprint. In addition the process can even allocate an incremental carbon footprint when the mobile device is recharged. In an exemplary embodiment there can be an application app as one of the programs which interfaces with a service provider application which can interface with the SDN controller the server etc. for implementing the process . The mobile device s green activities can be tracked as well. For example a donation to plant a tree can provide a negative carbon footprint value. With the ability to compute and track carbon footprint users can trade their negative carbon footprint to others to lower their carbon footprint.

The carbon footprint of the mobile device can be computed in a similar fashion as the enterprise . The overall equipment carbon footprint is computed i.e. through the devices and proportionally applied to the mobile device based on usage. Note in the case of the mobile device the network access devices can include wireless base stations like Evolved Node Bs. For example significant research is going into mobile device power optimization. In an exemplary embodiment the process can use the techniques described by Thiagarajan et al. Who Killed My Battery Analyzing Mobile Browser Energy Consumption WWW 2012 Apr. 16 20 2012 Lyon France available online at mobisocial.stanford.edu papers boneh www2012.pdf which states 

In an exemplary aspect the systems and methods contemplating allowing network operators to sell services based on carbon footprint as a selling point. For example a data center with a low carbon footprint which is verified though the process based on using green energy. Also a wireless service cloud service etc. can be marketed based on eco friendliness carbon footprint etc.

Referring back to in an exemplary embodiment an example is described for security products moving to NFV. For the enterprise to set up network security physical appliances required are using Lancope products as an example StealthWatch Management Console SMC StealthWatch Flow Collector FC StealthWatch Flow Replicator FR and StealthWatch Flow Sensor FS . For each of these appliances the power usage information as well as heat dissipation indirectly power requirement for cooling is known from the manufacturer s specifications. The carbon footprint is calculated based on these physical appliances. These can include 

These physical appliances can be replaced by Virtual Machines VMs running on a machine in the data center. The power requirement and BTU information are typically published by the server manufacturers like Dell HP etc. So for example the host machine is 64 cores CPU with 128 GB. Assume for example the SMC is replaced with a VM. Assume again for example the VM is on the server . The carbon footprint is calculated based on virtualizing the security function on the standard IT high volume compute storage and network hardware. The data center providers can advertise their NFV services and gain an advantage over competitors based on the reduced carbon footprint as compared to the physical appliance s carbon footprint.

To get the carbon footprint of the server BTUs British Thermal Units must be calculated per hour. Different manufacturers may publish specifications but for a general Intel based server the following example is provided. Power consumed Watts efficiency Watts 3.42 BTU h 1 Watt is approximately 3.21214 BTU h for a general Intel server 

Once BTU h is determined or KW h the carbon footprint can be computed based on the type of fuel used to generate the power. Here is an exemplary table showing CO2 emissions for different fuel sources from www.eia.gov electricity annual html epa a 03.html 

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a flow chart illustrates a carbon footprint assignment process for network services over the SDN network . The assignment process includes for each card module present on a network element calculating the power and cooling requirement step . This information can be provided by the SDN controller which has a real time inventory view of the network element. Also data can be looked up for the power and cooling requirement for each card module. Alternatively this data can be automatically provided by the SDN controller .

The assignment process includes based on the location of the network element obtaining a carbon footprint coefficient from the utility provider for each Watt used at each hour minute of the day step . This information can be dynamically provided by the utilities can be looked up from various data sources or can be estimated such as based on the table provided above. The assignment process includes calculating the carbon footprint and assigning the calculated carbon footprint to each card and the network element step . The steps can be performed for all network elements in the SDN network .

Next the assignment process includes proportionately assigning the carbon footprint to network services running through the network element step . Finally the assignment process includes the carbon footprint for a network service being the sum of carbon footprints per network element through the SDN network . That is the network service can have its carbon footprint determined as follows CF CF CF CF . . . CF Wherein CFis the carbon footprint of the network element and is how much of the network element is dedicated to the network service.

In the SDN network equipment inventory can be retrieved on a per network element basis including Common Language Location Identifier CLLI . The CLLI information gives the location of the network elements. For each network element power consumption can be calculated. In an example each network element is using 9045 watts. For each network element cooling requirements can be calculated for heat dissipation 51182 BTUs for example . The dynamic carbon footprint coefficient DCFC for each watt usage is obtained from the utilities involved. Here is an example of the dynamic nature of DCFC. The Florida Power Light company has a site that uses solar to generate electricity. When at night or weather condition dictates the electricity generation switches to natural gas which would have a higher coefficient compared to solar. If the dynamic carbon footprint coefficient is not provided by the utility an estimation is used.

The carbon footprint can be calculated for each network element per minute. This information is stored in the database. For example network element might utilize 15 metric tons COequivalent per year based on the CLLI code and utility involved. An enterprise requests a service from network element to network element . The service is routed through network element and network element . The service provider can proportionately assign the dynamic carbon footprint for this service as well as track the dynamic carbon footprint for the lifetime of the network service. The same sequence of calculation can be done for each network layer L L L if the network is multilayer network. The same sequence of calculation is done for the protect route of the service and carbon footprint is proportionately assigned and tracked for the enterprise.

Exemplary Implementation of CF Assignment Based on VM Movement over SDN Network and Hosted by Data Centers

Referring to in an exemplary embodiment a flow chart illustrates a carbon footprint assignment process based on VM movement over the SDN network and hosted by Data Centers. The assignment process can utilize the hypervisor and is illustrated herein with two data centers DC and DC for illustration purposes. The assignment process includes for each of the two data centers involved DC and DC detect a request issued by apps or orchestrators such as the hypervisor step . The assignment process includes calculating or obtaining the power and cooling requirement of the physical box on which the VM is running at DC step . Again this can be as described herein with respect to the server .

The assignment process includes depending on the number of VMs running on the box assigning the carbon footprint to the VM involved step . Here the carbon footprint is apportioned based on percentage used. The assignment process includes moving the VM to DC and calculating the total carbon footprint incurred in the move of the network service step . For example the hypervisor can make the request and move the VM. The assignment process includes calculating or obtaining the carbon footprint assigned to the VM at DC step . Finally the new carbon footprint cost of the VM at DC which could be incremental can be provided to the enterprise involved.

In another exemplary embodiment assume non commodity hardware like Lancope StealthWatch appliances. A physical install per appliance per site is required. The power and cooling requirement per appliance is obtained. The carbon footprint per appliance is calculated. Data Centers calculate the carbon footprint per VM utilizing the standard high volume servers storages and switches. The carbon footprint associated with the network service over the SDN network is also calculated. The new CF cost which could be incremental can be provided to the enterprise involved. Advantageously data centers can compete on lowest carbon footprint per VM per network service.

It will be appreciated that some exemplary embodiments described herein may include one or more generic or specialized processors one or more processors such as microprocessors digital signal processors customized processors and field programmable gate arrays FPGAs and unique stored program instructions including both software and firmware that control the one or more processors to implement in conjunction with certain non processor circuits some most or all of the functions of the methods and or systems described herein. Alternatively some or all functions may be implemented by a state machine that has no stored program instructions or in one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs in which each function or some combinations of certain of the functions are implemented as custom logic. Of course a combination of the aforementioned approaches may be used. Moreover some exemplary embodiments may be implemented as a non transitory computer readable storage medium having computer readable code stored thereon for programming a computer server appliance device etc. each of which may include a processor to perform methods as described and claimed herein. Examples of such computer readable storage mediums include but are not limited to a hard disk an optical storage device a magnetic storage device a ROM Read Only Memory a PROM Programmable Read Only Memory an EPROM Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory an EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory Flash memory and the like. When stored in the non transitory computer readable medium software can include instructions executable by a processor that in response to such execution cause a processor or any other circuitry to perform a set of operations steps methods processes algorithms etc.

Although the present disclosure has been illustrated and described herein with reference to preferred embodiments and specific examples thereof it will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other embodiments and examples may perform similar functions and or achieve like results. All such equivalent embodiments and examples are within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure are contemplated thereby and are intended to be covered by the following claims.

