---

title: System and method for tracking developmental training
abstract: An approach is provided for receiving an input for specifying a developmental training activity associated with a user. The approach involves identifying a classification of the developmental training activity as a team activity, an individual activity, or a combination thereof. The approach also involves determining a weighting for the development training activity based on classification. The approach further involves calculating a training score for the user based on the weighting and the developmental training activity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09501945&OS=09501945&RS=09501945
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09501945
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140530
---
The global competition and the rapidly changing technology emphasize the importance of human capital within an establishment. In an economy with rising uncertainty knowledge seems to be the only reliable source of sustained competitive advantage. Knowledge is becoming basic capital and the trigger of development hence users are in constant need of improved methods of training to maximize efficiency and quality. Regardless of the known importance of a regular training process the current training approaches are minimal and sporadic in nature. An approach for encouraging regular participation in developmental training activities by one or more users is required for advancing knowledge and skills.

Therefore a method for calculating a training score by evaluating the developmental training activity performed by a user to generate a ranking is necessary for encouraging user participation.

An apparatus method and software for calculating a training score by evaluating the developmental training activity performed by a user to generate a ranking is described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. As is well known the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

As shown in the system comprises user equipment UE collectively referred to as UE that may include or be associated with applications collectively referred to as applications and sensors collectively referred to as sensors . In one embodiment the UE has connectivity to the evaluation platform via networks . In one embodiment the evaluation platform performs one or more functions associated with calculating a training score by evaluating the developmental training activity performed by a user to generate a ranking.

As discussed earlier with the rapidly changing technologies there is constant need for novel and improved methods of motivating users to continue training. In one scenario the managers and or employers may grant bonus scores to encourage employees to participate in regular training activities in order to continuously advance their knowledge and skills. Needless to mention overall improvement in efficiency of an establishment is the result of consistent and continuous training and high levels of collaboration between the employees. Training is of growing importance to companies seeking to gain an advantage among competitors. Companies that are constantly creating novel modes of training their employees on technological advancement develop excellent services. In one scenario users often stop their training in the middle or after passing a certain milestone. It is very important to encourage them to participate in a training activity in a continuous basis. In view of that continuous training of employees is important given the knowledge and skill intensive jobs and the influence of technology on the job content.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to calculate a training score by evaluating the developmental training activity performed by a user to generate a ranking to encourage user participation. In one scenario a web based application may be accessed by one or more users through their respective mobile devices to perform a developmental training activity. The training undertaken by one or more users may be evaluated and validated by the system . Subsequently system may generate a score based on the performance of the users during their training to cause a ranking. In one scenario user performance may be based on user productivity user participation quality of work user progress or a combination thereof. Subsequently system may cause a presentation of a scoreboard indicating relative ranking of one or more users made accessible to other users via a network service. In one scenario scores may be calculated based at least in part on the ratio of the number of attendees in a training session to the number of employees on the team. In another scenario points may be awarded for attending in person online or for replaying of a training audio or a video. In a further scenario additional points may be awarded to a speaker s team or to a speaker drawing the largest audience whether online in person or through replay.

By way of example the UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the applications may be any type of application that is executable at the UE such as media player applications social networking applications calendar applications content provisioning services location based service applications navigation applications and the like. In one embodiment one of the applications at the UE may act as a client for the evaluation platform and may perform one or more functions associated with the functions of the evaluation platform by interacting with the evaluation platform over the networks .

By way of example the sensors may be any type of sensor. In certain embodiments the sensors may include for example a global positioning sensor for gathering location data e.g. GPS a network detection sensor for detecting wireless signals or receivers for different short range communications e.g. Bluetooth WiFi Li Fi near field communication etc. temporal information a camera imaging sensor for gathering image data an audio recorder for gathering audio data and the like. In one scenario the sensors may include light sensors oriental sensors augmented with height sensor and acceleration sensor tilt sensors moisture sensors pressure sensors audio sensors e.g. microphone gaze tracking sensors etc. In one embodiment the sensors may cause gaze tracking of one or more users using one or more cameras and or sensors directed at the user s eyes. In one scenario the evaluation platform may utilize the sensors of the virtual or augmented reality glasses device to detect whether the head movements and gaze of the one or more users match with the movement patterns of a reader. A reader s head movement and point of gaze follow the patterns of a reading task. Similarly the evaluation platform may detect head movements and point of gaze of one or more users to determine whether the movement follows the patterns of a reading task.

For illustrative purposes the networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network. Wireless network may employ various technologies including for example code division multiple access CDMA enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Although depicted as separate entities networks may be completely or partially contained within one another or may embody one or more of the aforementioned infrastructures. For instance the service provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner networks may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

In one embodiment the evaluation platform may be a platform with multiple interconnected components. The evaluation platform may include multiple servers intelligent networking devices computing devices components and corresponding software for calculating a training score by evaluating the developmental training activity performed by a user to generate a ranking. In addition it is noted that the evaluation platform may be a separate entity of the system or included within the UE e.g. as part of the applications .

In one embodiment the evaluation platform may receive an input for specifying a developmental training activity associated with a user. In one scenario the evaluation platform may receive an input from a user i.e. employer and or manager for a particular developmental training activity. In another scenario the developmental training activity indicated by a user for other users may be based on user requirements user progression etc.

In one embodiment the evaluation platform may identify a classification of the developmental training activity as a team activity an individual activity or a combination thereof. In one scenario the evaluation platform may cause a classification of the developmental training activity based on the characteristic and functionality of the training activity. For example reading a book may be termed as an individual activity wherein users may be graded based on their reading pace the number of pages read etc. On the other hand a general discussion on the book may be termed as a team activity wherein users may be graded for their participation inputs suggestions etc. for example users reading together and brainstorming concepts to better serve customers. Such team activities creates a common ground between users to share thoughts and allows a common forum for users who might not have ever worked together to share ideas. In such manner the one or more users may compete collaborate explore or express during a developmental training activity.

In one embodiment the evaluation platform may determine a weighting for the developmental training activity based on classification. In one scenario the evaluation platform may classify an activity wherein employees are reading books on emerging technologies and new devices as an important training activity. In another scenario the evaluation platform may classify an activity wherein employees are sharing and learning new strategies for technological advancements as a less significant training activity. The evaluation platform may provide scores for completion of such classified training activities to cause a ranking of one or more users. The evaluation platform may give higher scores to more significant training activity. In another embodiment the evaluation platform may calculate a training score for the user based on the weighting and the developmental training activity. For example reading books on emerging technologies or reading books on enhancing soft skills such as leadership may be given more weightage compared to other books.

In one embodiment the evaluation platform may create the database wherein the determined information for example training response data contextual information historical activity data user productivity information user progress information etc. may be stored. In one embodiment the database may store real time and or historical information of one or more users the information may be any multiple types of information that can provide means for aiding in the content provisioning and sharing process.

According to exemplary embodiments end user devices may be utilized to communicate over system and may include any customer premise equipment CPE capable of sending and or receiving information over one or more of networks . For instance voice terminal may be any suitable plain old telephone service POTS device facsimile machine etc. whereas mobile device or terminal may be any cellular phone radiophone satellite phone smart phone wireless phone or any other suitable mobile device such as a personal digital assistant PDA pocket personal computer tablet customized hardware etc. Further computing device may be any suitable computing device such as a VoIP phone skinny client control protocol SCCP phone session initiation protocol SIP phone IP phone personal computer softphone workstation terminal server etc.

In one embodiment the policy module may cause a developmental training activity for one or more users. Then the policy module may generate a training score based on a training response data of one or more users. In one scenario a training response data is based on user productivity user participation quality of work user progress or a combination thereof. In another embodiment the policy module may determine one or more policies for converting the number of pages read the number of books read the reading pace or a combination thereof into training scores based on a predetermined score formula. In one scenario one or more users may be awarded additional scores for executing a selected training activity exceeding the recommended training period or a combination thereof. In a further embodiment the policy module may determine one or more policies for penalizing users in violation of the recommended training activity by decreasing their scores for incomplete training activity.

In one embodiment the data processing module may receive training response data associated with one or more users performing a collaborative training activity. In another embodiment the data processing module may process the contextual information for one or more users to select a training activity a training group or a combination thereof. In a further embodiment the data processing module may process training response data and or historical activity data for one or more users to determine their skills strength weakness or a combination thereof. The training activities and or training groups may be further based upon such determination. In one scenario the data processing module may adapt a training activity for a user based on historical activity data to predict areas of required training wherein historical activity data includes one or more developmental training activities previously performed by a user.

In one embodiment the rule determination module may evaluate and validate the training response data for generating a ranking based on the performance parameter. In another embodiment the rule determination module may calculate training score for one or more users based on the weighting and the developmental training activities. In a further embodiment the rule determination module may update the ranking information based on the performance parameter the calculation or a combination thereof. In one scenario the updated ranking information enables an updated scoreboard indicating relative ranking of one or more users made accessible to other users via a network service. In another scenario one or more users may be ranked by the number of points they have in a book club category for example points scored during a brown bag seminars may be included into the book club calculations.

In one embodiment the user interface module employs various application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to the applications of the UE thus enabling the display of graphics primitives such as menus data entry fields etc. for generating the user interface elements. By way of example the user interface module generates the interface in response to APIs or other function calls corresponding to the browser application or web portal application of the UE thus enabling the display of graphics primitives. In another embodiment the user interface module causes a presentation of a scoreboard indicating relative ranking of one or more users based on their training scores. In a further embodiment the user interface module causes a presentation of a graphical user interface to at least one user to assist during their participation in a developmental training activity. In another embodiment the user interface module may cause a presentation of training materials via at least one virtual or augmented reality and electronic displays e.g. near eye displays head mounted displays wearable display etc. . The user interface module may overlay the training materials on at least one virtual or augmented reality and electronic displays based at least in part on gaze tracking head movement etc.

In one embodiment the communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for connecting at least one UE to a secured network whereby a web based application may be accessed by one or more users via the secured network service and is adapted for display on one or more mobile devices. The communication module may be used to communicate commands requests data etc. By way of example the communication module may be used to transmit a request from a UE to the evaluation platform for calculating a training score by evaluating the developmental training activity performed by a user to generate a ranking.

The above presented modules and components of the evaluation platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the evaluation platform may be implemented for direct operation by respective UE s. As such the evaluation platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the UE for interacting with the applications . In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by respective UE s as an evaluation platform or combination thereof. Still further the evaluation platform may be integrated for direct operation with services such as in the form of a widget or applet in accordance with an information and or subscriber sharing arrangement. The various executions presented herein contemplate any and all arrangements and models.

In step the evaluation platform receives an input for specifying a developmental training activity associated with a user wherein the developmental training activity includes a reading activity a lecturing activity or a combination thereof. In one scenario a user may be presented with certain content to read and or listen to as a training activity for example a user may be provided with a book on cloud services or a video on telecommunication management. The evaluation platform may monitor the performance score to such recommended training activity. In one scenario the recommended training activity may be directed towards educational purposes and identified skills for a user to be developed. The evaluation platform may implement a feedback mechanism to assess the effectiveness of the recommended training activity.

In step the evaluation platform identifies a classification of the developmental training activity as a team activity an individual activity or a combination thereof. In one scenario the evaluation platform may classify reading a book or watching an educational video as an individual activity wherein a user is given scores for completion of each level. In another scenario the evaluation platform may classify a discussion on a book as a team activity wherein users are scored on their participation. In a further scenario the evaluation platform may classify a mentor program as a team activity wherein the mentor may be given scores for assistance while the trainees are given scores for their involvement. Such classification of a developmental training activity is important for accurate score analysis.

In step the evaluation platform determines a weighting for the development training activity based on classification. In one embodiment the evaluation platform may determine a score factor for a developmental activity based on their importance. In one scenario the evaluation platform may determine that users may be awarded more points for reading a particular book or a particular article or a particular journal on client communication as compared to other books articles white papers journals based on a realization that the customer service rendered has been regretful.

In step the evaluation platform calculates a training score for the user based on the weighting and the developmental training activity. In one embodiment the weighting the training score or a combination thereof is further based on whether the development training activity is associated with a predetermined subject area. In one scenario the evaluation platform may determine weighting factors for each performance wherein the performance of each user is compared to a predetermined performance range. The performance ranking may be derived from the relative performance scores. In another scenario the test scores are used to indicate proficiency and understanding of a particular skill set. In one example embodiment the evaluation platform may determine to allocate certain training score depending on the developmental training activity 

In one scenario a user may be awarded 1 point per page of the reading assignment. On the other hand all members of a group may be awarded 1.5 points for every page read as a group. In another scenario users may be awarded different points for different category of training for example 60 points may be awarded to a user for completing a brown bag seminar 2000 points may be awarded to a user for completing a recommended college course etc. Then the evaluation platform may rank one or more users based on their total points. In a further scenario a user may exchange his points for a bookmark for example a user may be awarded a bookmark for 250 points subsequently the evaluation platform may deduct 250 points from the users account.

In step the evaluation platform determines a number of pages a number of books or a combination thereof read as part of the developmental training activity wherein the weighting the training score or a combination thereof is further based on the number of pages the number of books or a combination thereof. In one scenario the evaluation platform may recommend a reading activity for one or more users wherein a particular book on cloud computing is endorsed. The evaluation platform may award scores for each page of the book read by the users. The evaluation platform may also acknowledge the reading pace of one or more users. In another scenario the evaluation platform may recommend numerous books for one or more users. The users may be granted additional points for completing a book. In a further scenario users may be granted additional point in a team activity if all the users of the team complete a book or certain portion of the book.

In step the evaluation platform generates at least one reward token for the user based on the training score the development training activity contextual information or a combination thereof. In one scenario the evaluation platform may motivate users by offering fun rewards for completed milestones and important events. In one example embodiment the evaluation platform may reward users with additional points for every page read if they read within a team to encourage collaboration. In one scenario the evaluation platform may create bookmarks to reward employees for reading and moving to another level of the developmental training. In another scenario the evaluation platform may create badges leaderboards newsletter testimonials or a combination thereof to motivate user to continue their training activity. For example the evaluation platform may share the thoughts of other team members on certain books along with ranking information in a newsletter. In a further scenario the evaluation platform may reward one or more users by allowing them to redeem their points for certain good and or services. In one example embodiment an employee at XYZ Company may obtain enough points to garner him her a free one month unlimited wireless data plan whereupon the cloud server that administers the point calculations may also grant the free upgrade.

In step the evaluation platform determines a role of the user for the developmental training activity wherein the development training activity is classified as a team activity. In one embodiment the weighting the training score or a combination thereof is further based on the role. In one scenario a user leading a team and encouraging the team to continue learning even after surpassing developmental training benchmark may be awarded additional scores for his her important function. In another scenario a user contributing the most in a team event might be given additional point for his her important function.

In step the evaluation platform presents the training score as a ranking list wherein the ranking list is organized by an individual a team a supervisor of the team or a combination thereof. In one scenario the evaluation platform may monitor a user performance to generate a score to cause a ranking. In one scenario the evaluation platform may cause a notification e.g. emails newsletter messages etc. to one or more users with regards to ranking. In one example embodiment the evaluation platform may send a newsletter with ranking and scores of one or more users periodically based on a pre determined schedule based on demands from one or more users or a combination thereof.

In step the evaluation platform selects the developmental training activity a team for engaging in the developmental training activity or a combination thereof based on a service a skill contextual information historical activity data or a combination thereof. In one scenario the evaluation platform may process the contextual information of one or more users to determine a weakness of a user and may provide a suitable training activity.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to controlling a set top box based on device events. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

