---

title: Identifying an account and destination for a communication based on dialed number and origination number
abstract: The present disclosure involves systems, software, and computer implemented methods for identifying an account and destination for a communication based on a dialed number and origination number associated with the communication. One computer-implemented method includes identifying a first communication associated with an origination address and an access method; determining whether the first communication is associated with a destination address record in response to identifying the first communication; initiating the second communication to the destination address included in the destination address record in response to determining that the first communication is associated with the destination address record; determining whether a call recipient at the destination address accepts the second communication; and charging the account included in the destination address record for charges associated with the first communication and the second communication in response to determining that the call recipient at the destination address accepts the second communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09172820&OS=09172820&RS=09172820
owner: Network Enhanced Telecom, LLP
number: 09172820
owner_city: Longview
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140820
---
The present disclosure relates to telecommunications and specifically to identifying an account and destination for a communication based on a dialed number and origination number associated with the communication.

Telecommunications services allow subscribers to place calls to destinations all around the world. Generally these calls are placed by subscribers holding accounts with the particular telecommunications service. For example a subscriber may dial an access number and be prompted to enter their account number and a destination number to call.

The present disclosure describes techniques for allowing account holders to associate an origination address e.g. an ANI and an access number to an account. In one example implementation when a call is placed to the access number e.g. a DNIS from the ANI the ANI is recognized as being associated to the account. The call is then connected to a primary registered phone number associated to the account. If the ANI is not recognized the caller is prompted to enter an ANI and the call is connected if the entered ANI is recognized. The call is then billed against the account.

In some implementations account holders may interact with a clerk to enable the above functionality on an account. Account holders may also interact with a web site or other graphical interface to setup the functionality. In some cases upon successful completion of the setup the account holder will receive a short message service SMS text message or email if one is on file for the registered account containing the ANI access number and label assigned to the ANI DNIS relationship at time of setup. The clerk and web interface may support sending of the details via SMS email deleting the ANI DNIS relationship and editing the ANI and Label. In some cases the relationship between access number and ANI may be one to many so one access number may be re used for multiple subscribers. In some implementations the ANI may be an international ANI. The ANI may also be a domestic e.g. US ANI. The access number may be foreign or domestic.

In some implementations the ANI of the caller may not be recognized for example because a large number of people may be using the same ANI to originate call or because the ANI may be blocked and thus not delivered. In this case the caller may be allowed to enter in a registered number of the person they are calling. If the entered number is a valid registered number the caller is connected per the call flow requirements if not the call is terminated.

The present disclosure may enable at least the following advantages. A caller in a foreign country may be able to initiate a free call from the point of view of the caller to an account holder in the United States or another country with the charges for the call being charged to the associated account rather than the caller. Such a feature may be useful for persons having family members in a foreign country from whom they wish to receive calls. A foreign caller may dial a single number the access number rather than having to dial an access number enter an account number and enter a destination number as is common in prepaid calling systems. An access number can be shared amongst multiple subscribers creating a cost effective solution regarding access number procurement management. Sharing access numbers in this way may also allow the system scale more easily than other techniques.

As shown the system includes a call processing system a data processing apparatus that interacts with a network in order to control one or more network switches in order to connect calls from callers to subscribers . In some implementations the network is the Internet. In other implementations the network includes multiple discrete networks for example the Internet the public switched telephone network PSTN a local area network or other networks. In such implementations control data from the call processing system is sent over a local area network and the call path between the caller and the subscriber is over the PSTN. In other implementations the call path between the caller and the subscriber is established over the Internet such as in a voice over IP VOIP scenario.

The call processing system includes an interface . The interface may be used by the call processing system for communicating with other systems in a distributed environment including within the system connected to the network for example the client as well as other systems communicably coupled to the network not illustrated . Generally the interface comprises logic encoded in software and or hardware in a suitable combination and operable to communicate with the network . More specifically the interface may comprise software supporting one or more communication protocols associated with communications such that the network or interface s hardware is operable to communicate physical signals within and outside of the illustrated system .

The call processing system includes a processor . In some cases the processor directs the operation of the other components of the call processing system by executing the software instructions making up these various components. In some cases the processor may include multiple physical central processing units CPUs which may be contained inside a single chassis or distributed across multiple computers and connected via a network or backplane. In some cases the processor may be a general purpose processor such as those produced by INTEL AMD HP ARM APPLE or any other suitable processor. The processor may also be a custom application specific integrated circuit ASIC or field programmable gate array FPGA specifically adapted to the present application.

The call processing system includes a call manager . In some implementations the call manager may be a software application configured to receive and manage calls from the one or more network switches over the network . For example the call manager may interact with the one or more network switches using a protocol or API to connect disconnect accept reject or otherwise control calls on the one or more network switches . Call manager may also interact with users of the system such as the caller and the subscriber by playing prompts collecting digits or performing other interactions. In some implementations the call manager may be one or more software applications running on a server or set of servers.

The call manager includes an association manager . In some implementations the association manager may be operable to determine whether an ANI association exists for a particular call and to create a new call to a destination number associated with the ANI association if the association exists. For example the association manager may query the database for an ANI association matching an ANI on an access number for a particular call. The association manager may interact with subscriber after creating the new call to the destination to determine whether the subscriber wishes to accept the call. This interaction is described in greater detail below.

The call manager also includes an account manager . In operation the account manager may track charges associated with a particular call and bill the charges associated with the call to an associated account. In some implementations billing the charges may include debiting a prepaid balance associated with the account. The account manager may also generate call detail records associated with the call for tracking purposes.

The call processing system also includes a memory that includes a database . The database may be any type of database application including INFORMIX IBM DB2 MYSQL MICROSOFT SQL SERVER VERTICA and or other database applications or systems. The database includes accounts access numbers and ANI associations . The memory may also contain service configurations voice prompts rating information destination geographic information call detail records and any other necessary configuration or historical data necessary to perform the described service.

Each account may include an identification number such as a personal identification number or PIN and a monetary balance. The user may indicate an account to bill for call charges by entering this identification number. Charges for calls to be billed to a particular account may be debited from the monetary balance associated with the particular account.

The access numbers in the database may include dialed numbers that can be used to access the one or more network switches . For example an access number may be a toll free number the can be dialed in order to cause a new call to appear on one of the one or more networks switches .

The database also includes ANI associations . In some implementations The ANI associations include a destination number to be dialed if a call from the configured ANI is received on the configured access number. The ANI associations also include an account to which calls under this association should be billed. In operation if the call processing system finds that an association exists for the ANI and access number the call processing system may initiate an outbound call to the configured destination number which may correspond to the subscriber . If the subscriber chooses to accept the call a voice path may be established between the subscriber and the caller and charges for the call may be billed to the associated account.

The system may also include a client that includes a GUI . The client may include an interface a processor and a browser application . The client may be used by a user to access the call processing system in order to change configuration view call records make calls or perform other functions.

The system may also include one or more network switches communicatively coupled to network . In some cases the network switches may be standard telecom equipment used to connect time slots or ports together to complete telephone calls. The network switches may also be voice over internet protocol VOIP equipment operable to service telephone calls originating and or terminating to IP networks. The network switches may be commercially available networking equipment including products manufactured by ALCATEL LUCENT CISCO NORTEL HP STRATUS or any other suitable switching product. The network switches may also include general purpose routers multiplexers gateways or other equipment. In some cases the network switches may be controlled by the call processing system via one or more APIs. The APIs may be standard protocols such as SIP or H.323 proprietary control protocols specific to the manufacturer of the network switch or any other suitable API or combination of APIs.

The system may also include a caller . In some cases the caller may be a person associated with one of the ANIs in the ANI associations . The caller may access the call processing system by dialing an access number from an associated origination address or ANI. The caller may also access the call processing system by connecting to an IP address associated with the call processing system or one of the network switches . In some instances the caller may access the call processing system or network switches using a software application configured to communicate with these components. The call processing system may provide a service to the caller . In some cases the call processing system may interact with the one or more network switches to connect caller to the subscriber as described in herein.

In operation the call processing system may identify a new call from the caller . The call processing system identifies an ANI associated with the caller such as by parsing a new call indication from one of the network switches . The call processing system also identifies an access number that the caller used to access the call processing system. Call processing system may then consult the database to determine if an ANI association exists for the received ANI and access number. The ANI associations also include a destination number to be dialed if a call from the configured ANI is received on the configured access number. The ANI associations also include an account to which calls under this association should be billed. If the call processing system finds that an association exists for the ANI and access number the call processing system may initiate an outbound call to the configured destination number which may correspond to the subscriber . If the subscriber chooses to accept the call a voice path will be established between the subscriber and the caller and charges for the call will be billed to the associated account.

An example implementation of this process is illustrated in . The caller is associated with the ANI . Caller originates a call via the network that is received by the network switch . The network switch is associated with an access number e.g. a DNIS . The network switch interacts with the call processing system to determine how to handle the received call. As shown the call processing system includes a database that includes an association between the ANI and the access number . This association also includes or is associated with a destination number . The destination number corresponds to the recipient phone . Upon identifying this association the call processing system may instruct the network switch to originate a new call via the network to the recipient . If the call is completed charges for the call may be billed to the associated account .

At a subscriber provides a clerk with an ANI which the clerk enters into a provided web form. In some implementations the web form may be provided by the call processing system over a network such as the Internet. In some implementations the web form may be a Hypertext Markup Language HTML page including form elements allowing the subscriber to enter information about the requested ANI association. The clerk may retrieve and interact with the web form using a browser application e.g. on a client machine e.g. . In some implementations the clerk may use a standalone application to enter the ANI provided by the subscriber. The standalone application may interact with the call processing system such as over the Internet.

At the web form updates with an access number based on the ANI. An inbound rate field is also updated so the clerk can communicate a cost for calls to the subscriber. In some implementations the access number may be selected by the call processing system and returned to the web form. The access number may be determined by examining the ANI to determine an associated geographic location. An access number for the determined geographic location may then be returned to the web form. The inbound rate field may be calculated based on the cost for calls from the geographic location to the location of the call processing system . For example if geographic location is Guatemala and the call processing system is in the United States the inbound rate would represent the cost of calling from Guatemala to the United States. In some implementations the inbound rate may be a fixed cost based on time.

At the clerk chooses an access number. In some cases the clerk may choose the access number from a list of access numbers for the ANI. In some cases the clerk may be presented with a prioritized list of access numbers by the call processing system . The clerk may then ask the customer which of the access numbers they prefer to use. At the clerk enters a label for the association. In some implementations the label may be the name of the person that owns the ANI. The label may also be any other descriptive or non descriptive name for the association provided by the subscriber. After entering the label the clerk submits the web form. At the subscriber receives a Short Message Service SMS or email including the chosen access number the provided ANI and the label for the association. The SMS or email may function as a receipt indicating that the transaction is complete and the association is now ready for use by the customer.

At the subscriber enters an ANI into a web form. In some implementations the web form may be provided by the call processing system over a network such as the Internet. In some implementations the web form may be a Hypertext Markup Language HTML page including form elements allowing the subscriber to enter information about the requested ANI association. The subscriber may retrieve and interact with the web form using a browser application e.g. on a client machine e.g. . In some implementations the subscriber may use a standalone application to enter an ANI. The standalone application may interact with the call processing system such as over the Internet.

At the web form updates with an access number based on the ANI. An inbound rate field is also updated so the customer can view a cost for calls. In some implementations the access number may be selected by the call processing system and returned to the web form. The access number may be determined by examining the ANI to determine an associated geographic location. An access number for the determined geographic location may then be returned to the web form. The inbound rate field may be calculated based on the cost per minute for calls from the geographic location to the location of the call processing system . For example if geographic location is Guatemala and the call processing system is in the United States the inbound rate would represent the cost of calling from Guatemala to the United States. In some implementations the inbound rate may represent a fixed cost based on time.

At the subscriber chooses an access number. In some cases the subscriber may choose the access number from a list of access numbers for the ANI. In some cases the subscriber may be presented with a prioritized list of access numbers by the call processing system from which to select. At the subscriber enters a label for the association. In some implementations the label may be the name of the person that owns the ANI. The label may also be any other descriptive or non descriptive name for the association provided by the subscriber. After entering the label the subscriber submits the web form. At the subscriber receives a Short Message Service SMS or email including the chosen access number the provided ANI and the label for the association. The SMS or email may function as a receipt indicating that the transaction is complete and the association is now ready for use by the subscriber.

At an access number is dialed. In some implementations this number may be dialed by the user using a telephone connected to the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN . Dialing the access number may cause a new call to be generated over the PSTN which may be received by a call processing system e.g. . The call processing system may evaluate the new call to determine whether the ANI included in the new call is recognized or not.

If the ANI is recognized the method continues to where a prompt is played to the user the A leg . The prompt informs the user to please wait while we connect your call. A ring tone is also played to the A leg. If the ANI is not recognized the A leg is prompted to enter their phone number e.g. their ANI at . This may allow a user to use the service from a phone other than their home phone. At a determination is made whether the entered phone number is a registered phone number. In some implementations the determination is made by querying a database for record associating the dial access number and the entered phone number with an account and destination number. If the entered phone number is not a registered phone number the method returns to and the A leg is again prompted to enter a phone number. In some implementations this occurs a maximum of three times after which the call is disconnected.

If the entered phone number is recognized the method proceeds to where the leg is prompted to wait while the call is connected. A ring tone may also be played to the A leg. The two branches of the method merge at where a second call leg the B leg is created. In some implementations the B leg is created by generating a new call to a destination associated with the access number and ANI of the A leg. The B leg may initially be connected to a prompting resource or IVR and may only be connected to the A leg in the case that the B leg accepts the call.

At the determination is made whether the B leg is answered. In some implementations the determination may timeout after a certain amount of time after which it may be determined that the B leg is not answered. The determination that the B leg is not answered may also be made based on an indication from the network such as an indication that the B leg is busy.

If the B leg answers the method continues to where the B leg is prompted to accept or decline the call. The prompt may include the ANI associated with the A leg the amount of money remaining on the associated account the amount of time this remaining money will allow for the call if accepted or other information. In some implementations this step may be omitted and B leg may be determined to accept the call upon answering.

If the B leg accepts the call the method continues to where the A and B leg are joined and the conversation ensues. In some implementations joining the A and B leg may include connecting the voice paths of the two legs together so that the users associated with each leg can have a conversation. In some implementations a prompt may be played to both legs indicating that they have been joined. Informational prompts may also be played at this point such as for example the time remaining indication.

If the B leg declines the call the method continues to where the A leg is played a prompt indicating that the call could not be completed at this time. In some implementations the A leg may be disconnected after the prompt finishes.

If the B leg does not answer at the method continues to where a prompt may be played to the A leg indicating that the call cannot be connected at this time. In some implementations the A leg may be disconnected after the prompt finishes.

At an access number is dialed. In some implementations this number may be dialed by the user using a telephone connected to the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN . Dialing the access number may cause a new call to be generated over the PSTN which may be received by a call processing system e.g. .

At the A leg is prompted to enter the phone number of the person to call. At a determination is made whether the phone number that was entered is a registered phone number. For example the number from which the call originated the access number and the entered phone number may be looked up in the database to determine whether calls to the entered phone number are permitted. For example in a prison scenario only approved numbers may be entered in the database so that inmates may be restricted from calling unapproved numbers such as the victims of their crimes .

If the entered phone number is not a registered phone number the method returns to and the A leg is re prompted. In some implementations this occurs a maximum of three times after which the call is disconnected.

If the entered phone number is recognized the method continues to where the A leg is prompted to wait while the call is connected. A ring tone may also be played to the A leg. At a second call leg the B leg is created. In some implementations the B leg is created by generating a new call to the entered phone number associated with the access number and ANI of the A leg. The B leg may initially be connected to a prompting resource or IVR and may only be connected to the A leg in the case that the B leg accepts the call.

At the determination is made whether the B leg is answered. In some implementations the determination may timeout after certain amount of time after which it may be determined that the B leg is not answered. The determination that the B leg is not answered may also be made based on an indication from the network such as an indication that the B leg is busy.

If the B leg answers the method continues to where the B leg is prompted to accept or decline the call. The prompt may include the ANI associated with the A leg the amount of money remaining on the associated account the amount of time this remaining money will allow for the call if accepted or other information.

If the B leg accepts the call the method continues to where the A and B leg are joined and the conversation ensues. In some implementations joining the A and B leg may include connecting the voice paths of the two legs together so that the users associated with each leg can have a conversation. In some implementations a prompt may be played to both legs indicating that they have been joined. Informational prompts may also be played at this point such as for example the time remaining indication.

If the B leg declines the call the method continues to where the A leg is played a prompt indicating that the call could not be completed at this time. In some implementations the A leg may be disconnected after the prompt finishes.

If the B leg does not answer at the method continues to where a prompt may be played to the A leg indicating that the call cannot be connected at this time. In some implementations the A leg may be disconnected after the prompt finishes.

Interface also includes a label text box into which a label for the ANI association may be entered. For example if the user of the destination number wishes to associate his mother s ANI to his account the user may enter a label of mother in the label text box in order to identify the association. The interface also includes language drop down from which the user can select a language for email or SMS indications. The interface includes a submit button which may be activated to create the association based on the entered information.

The interface also includes a list of registered phone numbers . The registered phone numbers may be associated with the account and may be dialed when one of the configured ANIs dials one of the configured access numbers. Interface also includes a make primary button . The user may activate this button to make the associated destination the primary destination for this account such that the destination will be dialed when any of the associated ANI s dials their associated access number.

At a first communication associated with an origination address and access method is identified. In some implementations identifying the first communication may include receiving a new call indication from a switch within a telecom network.

At a determination is made whether the first communication is associated with the destination address record in response to identifying the first communication. In some cases the determination is made by querying a database to identify a corresponding destination address record for the origination address and access method associated with first communication.

At a second communication is initiated to the destination address identified by the destination address record in response to determining that the first communication is associated with the destination address record. In some cases the first and second communications are telephone calls the origination address is a telephone number from which the first communication was originated and the access method is a dialed number used to initiate the first communication.

At a determination is made whether a call recipient at the destination address has accepted the second communication. In some cases determining whether the call recipient has accepted the second communication includes prompting the call recipient to determine whether the call recipient will accept the second communication in response to initiating the second communication. In some cases the first and second communications may be joined in response to determining that the call recipient has accepted the second communication. Prompting the call recipient may include providing the origination address of the first communication and an account balance associated with the account included in the destination address record to the call recipient. In some cases the first communication and the second communication may be terminated in response to determining that the call recipient has not accepted the second communication. In some implementations determining whether the call recipient has accepted the second communication includes determining whether the call recipient has answered the second communication. The first communication and the second communication may be terminated in response to determining that the user has not answered the second communication.

At the account included in the destination address record is charged for charges associated with the first communication and the second communication in response to determining the call recipient at the destination address has accepted the second communication. In some cases it may be determined that a destination address record for the first communication does not exist. In such a case a user associated with the first communication may be required to provide an alternate origination address.

Implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in tangibly embodied computer software or firmware in computer hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a tangible non transitory computer storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. The computer storage medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory device or a combination of one or more of them.

The term data processing apparatus refers to data processing hardware and encompasses all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can also be or further include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a central processing unit CPU a FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . In some implementations the data processing apparatus and or special purpose logic circuitry may be hardware based and or software based. The apparatus can optionally include code that creates an execution environment for computer programs e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. The present disclosure contemplates the use of data processing apparatuses with or without conventional operating systems for example LINUX UNIX WINDOWS MAC OS ANDROID IOS or any other suitable conventional operating system.

A computer program which may also be referred to or described as a program software a software application a module a software module a script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages or declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network. While portions of the programs illustrated in the various figures are shown as individual modules that implement the various features and functionality through various objects methods or other processes the programs may instead include a number of sub modules third party services components libraries and such as appropriate. Conversely the features and functionality of various components can be combined into single components as appropriate.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable computers executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a CPU a FPGA or an ASIC.

Computers suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example can be based on general or special purpose microprocessors or both or any other kind of CPU. Generally a CPU will receive instructions and data from a read only memory ROM or a random access memory RAM or both. The essential elements of a computer are a CPU for performing or executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a global positioning system GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few.

Computer readable media transitory or non transitory as appropriate suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of nonvolatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM DVD R DVD RAM and DVD ROM disks. The memory may store various objects or data including caches classes frameworks applications backup data jobs web pages web page templates database tables repositories storing business and or dynamic information and any other appropriate information including any parameters variables algorithms instructions rules constraints or references thereto. Additionally the memory may include any other appropriate data such as logs policies security or access data reporting files as well as others. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube LCD liquid crystal display or plasma monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball or trackpad by which the user can provide input to the computer. Input may also be provided to the computer using a touchscreen such as a tablet computer surface with pressure sensitivity a multi touch screen using capacitive or electric sensing or other type of touchscreen. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

The term graphical user interface or GUI may be used in the singular or the plural to describe one or more graphical user interfaces and each of the displays of a particular graphical user interface. Therefore a GUI may represent any graphical user interface including but not limited to a web browser a touch screen or a command line interface CLI that processes information and efficiently presents the information results to the user. In general a GUI may include a plurality of user interface UI elements some or all associated with a web browser such as interactive fields pull down lists and buttons operable by the business suite user. These and other UI elements may be related to or represent the functions of the web browser.

Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of wireline and or wireless digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a radio access network RAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX a wireless local area network WLAN using for example 802.11a b g n and or 802.20 all or a portion of the Internet and or any other communication system or systems at one or more locations. The network may communicate with for example Internet Protocol IP packets Frame Relay frames Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM cells voice video data and or other suitable information between network addresses.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

In some implementations any or all of the components of the computing system both hardware and or software may interface with each other and or the interface using an application programming interface API and or a service layer. The API may include specifications for routines data structures and object classes. The API may be either computer language independent or dependent and refer to a complete interface a single function or even a set of APIs. The service layer provides software services to the computing system. The functionality of the various components of the computing system may be accessible for all service consumers via this service layer. Software services provide reusable defined business functionalities through a defined interface. For example the interface may be software written in JAVA C or other suitable language providing data in extensible markup language XML format or other suitable format. The API and or service layer may be an integral and or a stand alone component in relation to other components of the computing system. Moreover any or all parts of the service layer may be implemented as child or sub modules of another software module enterprise application or hardware module without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any invention or on the scope of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features that may be specific to particular implementations of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation and or integration of various system modules and components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation and or integration in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations alterations and permutations of the described implementations are within the scope of the following claims as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results.

Accordingly the above description of example implementations does not define or constrain this disclosure. Other changes substitutions and alterations are also possible without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

