---

title: Electronic message management with conversation participation status
abstract: Electronic message management with conversation participation status is enabled. Accordingly, time may be saved and lost productivity due to overload of messages may be reduced. Electronic conversations may be associated with a set of participants. Each participant may have a varying and/or changing level of interest in the conversation. Each participant may specify a conversation participation status and the conversation participation status and/or user status of each participant may be communicated and/or presented to each of the other participants. Messaging clients may change presentation of conversations and/or electronic messages for a participant based on the participant's specified conversation participation status. Participants sending messages may specify message status specific for each participant to alter treatment of message that would be based on participant status and/or conversation participation status when message is received by each participant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509650&OS=09509650&RS=09509650
owner: BetterEmailing, LLC
number: 09509650
owner_city: Orinda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141230
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 62 044 042 filed Aug. 29 2014 the full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates generally to computer facilitated communication and more particularly to electronic messaging with human readable content.

Email has become a common tool with respect to business communication. Other types of electronic messages such as instant messages text messages and social networking posts are catching up fast. Email can be an efficient communication mechanism for example when sending a message to a limited or large number of recipients who may be near the sender s work location or across the globe. The recipients of a message can then add further recipients to the communication reply to all or to a few and propagate these messages.

Unfortunately the ease of using email can also make it into a nuisance. It is not uncommon that users receive hundreds of emails a week some or even many of which they do not need to receive or have low relevance. By some estimates about 10 of employee time is being wasted in attending to unnecessary internal emails. In many cases such emails cannot be filtered as effectively as external junk emails. With many email participants clicking the reply all button the recipients of these emails can become victims of email overload.

Conventional attempts to address these issues are inefficient ineffective and or have undesirable side effects or other drawbacks with respect to at least one significant use case.

For example some electronic messaging management tools have functionality such as kill an email thread or mute an email thread. However the other participants of the conversation do not become aware when one or more of the recipients are ignoring the conversation. As another example some electronic messaging management tools attempt to inform subsequent repliers when they attempt to send an email to someone who has unsubscribed to the thread. However thread participants do not know such information unless they have opted to send an email. As yet another example some electronic messaging management tools send emails to all participants when one of the participants opts out from a message thread. However this can actually create more traffic for the remaining participants potentially causing more harm than good.

Embodiments of the invention are directed toward solving these and other problems individually and collectively.

The subject matter of embodiments of the present invention is described here with specificity to meet statutory requirements but this description is not necessarily intended to limit the scope of the claims. The claimed subject matter may be embodied in other ways may include different elements or steps and may be used in conjunction with other existing or future technologies. This description should not be interpreted as implying any particular order or arrangement among or between various steps or elements except when the order of individual steps or arrangement of elements is explicitly described.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention electronic message management with conversation participation status is enabled. Utilizing methods articles and systems in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention time may be saved and lost productivity due to overload of messages may be reduced. Sets of electronic messages e.g. email messages may be identified as associated with an electronic conversation e.g. by subject line or any suitable conversation identification technique . The electronic conversation conversation may then be associated with a set of participants. Each participant may have a varying and or changing level of interest in the conversation. In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention each participant may specify a conversation participation status and the conversation participation status of each participant may be communicated and or presented to each or some of the other participants depending on security settings. Alternatively or in addition each conversation participant may specify a participant status such as busy do not disturb or quiet mode and the participant status of each participant may be likewise communicated and or presented to each or some of the other participants depending on security settings. As a further alternative or further in addition the conversation itself may have a status conversation status such as closed and the conversation status may be likewise communicated and or presented to each or some of the other participants depending on security settings. Participants may change their conversation participation status participant status and or the conversation status from time to time and updated status may be communicated and or presented to each or some of the other participants depending on security settings. Messaging clients may change presentation of conversations and or electronic messages for a participant based on the participant s specified conversation participation status. Further participants sending messages may be able to see conversation participation status and or participant status for each or some of the intended recipients and may be able to alter behavior of the message presentation for each or some of the recipients.

For example a particular participant Alice may specify a sideline status for a particular conversation. Information regarding Alice s new conversation participation status is provided to each other participant in the conversation Bob Carol David. Bob Carol and David are now aware that Alice is paying less immediate attention to the conversation. For example Alice s messaging client may be configured to store messages associated with a sidelined conversation in a dedicated presentation grouping e.g. a special purpose sidelined email conversation folder or weight associated messages lower as part of a relevance scoring algorithm. Alice may provide an indication of the reason for the conversation participation status change e.g. freeform text such as Carol will handle . Specifying a conversation participation status may be performed manually using one or more suitable user interface elements. Alternatively or in addition conversation participation status may be set according to rules specified by a participant and or an administrator e.g. Sideline conversation when email subject contains donuts . Further examples of conversation participation status types include redirected withdrawn and delegated and are describe in more detail below. David may indicate that Alice s approval is needed in one of the messages during conversation and such a message may be treated differently for example sending to Alice s default inbox rather than moving it to a sidelined email conversation folder so that Alice may see the message more readily.

Throughout this description email is used to refer to electronic messages for clarity. However any suitable type of electronic messages may be utilized including but not limited to text messages social networking messages photo sharing and voice messages delivered electronically. Wherever the term email is used current and future electronic messages of various types may be substituted. Suitable electronic messages include messages received in an electronic inbox sometimes called a virtual inbox such as an email inbox a wall such as used by Facebook a voice message inbox and a text messaging client. In addition electronic messages are described throughout this description as being grouped into one or more folders . However any suitable type of email grouping mechanism may be utilized including but not limited to message tagging e.g. messages with same tags are members of a corresponding group message classification message categorization message grouping message collections message lists message walls and or wall posts message streams message channels and message forums and sub forums. Message groupings may be hierarchical and may be created viewed edited and deleted with user interface idioms and affordances corresponding to those for message folders such as drag and drop idioms.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention lost productivity due to email overload particularly from users colleagues and or friends may be reduced. These types of messages may not be filtered by junk mail filters which typically target emails from bulk mailers or relative strangers. Users are enabled to act on conversations rather than individual messages to keep other selected participants of the messages in the know of what actions others have taken and or to reduce proliferation of messages. Overload of messages received by users may be reduced and or made easier to find. Users are enabled to pay attention to messages more relevant to them to experience less interruptions and loss of focus to experience less lost opportunity costs due to fewer messages getting ignored and or to reduce time wasted in waiting for someone s reply e.g. due to reduced overload . In a work context team and or employee morale may be enhanced and increased job satisfaction may result.

At times it is possible for an electronic messaging participant to assume that a person who should see a particular email is seeing it and to move on when in fact the other person is buried under a lot of emails and doesn t see it in time or has muted the conversation. In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention anyone looking at an email in the thread is enabled to readily see individuals currently ignoring an email thread e.g. by going to sideline as well as those who may not have read the email already and or other suitable conversation participation states.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention electronic message management tools may provide one or more of the following features 

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention a conversation participation status module may maintain a conversation participation status for each participant of each conversation as well as provide updates with respect to conversation participation status changes to conversation participants. Message processing procedures may differ based on conversation participation status and the conversation participation status module may determine suitable non default procedures for processing a message based on one or more associated conversation participation status types e.g. via a simple mapping . Alternatively or in addition the messaging engine may make processing decisions based on conversation participation status. Conversation participation status may be updated manually e.g. via a suitable user interface and or in accordance with specified rules. The rules may be stored in a rules datastore and interpreted by a rules engine . Although the example depicted in shows the conversation participation status module incorporated into the messaging engine each embodiment is not so limited. For example the conversation participation status module may be implemented as an external and or plug in module that interacts with the messaging engine utilizing one or more programmatic interfaces such as application programming interfaces APIs . As with other components of the messaging server some or all of the functionality of the conversation participation status module may be distributed to located and or implemented at the messaging clients .

User preferences and user status may be stored in a user profile datastore . User profiles may also include security tokens and verifiable permissions data enabling access to conversation participation status modifications and viewing. Any suitable aspect of conversation participation status access may be subject to one or more permissions. Users may be arranged in a hierarchy and or groups with permissions configurable at hierarchy nodes and or at the group level.

The description now turns to example features in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention. Aspects of such features may be better understood with reference to . Options and features maybe provided independent of each other and or in any suitable combination.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention when the sideline command is invoked the user s intention may be saved in a database meant for this purpose and the messages in users Inbox pertaining to the same conversation may be acted upon in one of several ways based on implementation configuration or preference of implementer. E.g. a move unread messages pertaining to conversation to a designated sideline folder b move all messages pertaining to this conversation to a designated sideline folder c filter the messages out by default d move them to sideline tab etc. Any subsequently received messages pertaining to the same conversation may be moved hidden tabulated etc. in a consistent manner as long as user stays on sideline for the conversation.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention email clients used by other participants of the conversation may query the shared data store and may display the status of conversation participants being on sideline in multiple ways based on user interface designer s preference. E.g. one way to indicate this is to add B super script next to participant s name who has put the conversation on sideline the participant address name may be struck out e.g. participant name address may have a specific background foreground color may be in different font and so on. Another way is to provide a command interface so user can see detail information e.g. when user clicks on the button user sees a table with all participants their status reasons etc.

So as to enable participants to have latest information sideline status may be refreshed responsive to messaging client events for example whenever user views or opens a message whenever user chooses to respond to the message and starts composing it by clicking reply or reply all and when the user chooses to send it. If more users have put conversation on sideline between reply and send commands the client may alert user of such change and ask if user wishes to proceed or wishes to make any changes to address list such as include users gone on sideline. Alternatively or in addition sideline status may be refreshed periodically.

When a user chooses to go on sideline using appropriate user interface click touch gesture voice etc. a dialog may pop up or other suitable user interface element may be presented which may ask the user additional information to enhance functionality further. Such additional information may include 

System may provide option to place conversations to sideline automatically based on system wide configuration or user specific configuration.

System may put a conversation on sideline based on various configurable filters such as how long user ignores conversation how many messages were opened if message is high priority if message is not from list of important senders if user is not on TO line in address list etc.

For example one user can set up auto sideline filter like this place conversation automatically on sideline if I open just a couple of messages in the conversation in 30 minutes but I have been opening other messages during this time. Another user may set up filter like this place conversation automatically on sideline if messages are not flagged important conversations are not originated by anyone on my VIP list and I am not on TO List and I have opened up to 2 messages in 30 minutes while I was actively using email. 

System may run one or more sideline processes which may monitor user activity and automatically sense conversations that need to be put on backburner.

Messages that are put automatically on sideline may be distinguished from messages intentionally placed on backburner using a different icon or letter. e. g. auto sideline can be indicated as and intentional backburner may be indicated as .

This feature may be used in cases such as this a upon receiving an email user realizes that sender has picked his her email address by mistake e.g. due to similarity in name etc. b a user who is recently transferred to another department gets an email pertaining to his her old responsibility and wants to redirect the conversation i.e. this email other emails and any future emails c After a few email exchanges the user realizes that there is another person more appropriate to handle the issue and wishes to redirect the conversation to that person.

Upon invocation of command the system may allow user to select or enter one or more email addresses and click redirect. When the redirect command is executed user s intention may be saved in a database meant for this purpose and all messages in users Inbox pertaining to the same conversation may be forwarded to the selected email address es provided they are not part of the recipient yet. A standard text such as This conversation is redirected to you by etc. may be added in the forwarded message. Any messages received after this action may not be forwarded automatically as senders of future messages may remove other participants intentionally.

Email clients used by other participants of the said conversation may be able to query the shared data store and may display the status of conversation participants who have redirected the message in multiple ways based on his or her preferences. E.g. the redirecting participant may have an R super script next to it the redirecting participant addresses names may be struck out redirected participant address name may have F superscript e.g. userf1 acme.com userf2 acme.com participant name address may have a specific background foreground color may be in different font and so on.

Also the client programs may automatically include redirected participants addresses names. The responder may have a choice of controlling new participants by removing their names. Depending on implementation care must be taken to also remove name of the user who has redirected the message so the message does not rebound to unintended participant. This may be achieved using any suitable technique including flagging the shared data store appropriately to stop rebounding or by warning the sender of unintended consequence etc. Furthermore should another participant include a user who had redirected a conversation and has since been removed from the email conversation the client software may indicate that the user they just added has opted to redirect the conversation to others. Email addresses names of redirected parties may be re introduced in the list to let the person know who may receive messages.

Participants may be offered ways to bring the users who have redirected the conversation back into conversation themselves or others using appropriate user interface device based on preferred implementation designed by subject matter experts. E.g. user may be able to right click or touch redirected participant name address to see a popup menu and click on a command an icon etc. to remove redirection to bring user back into conversation. Such command may remove information from shared data store pertaining to redirection with appropriate information about who removed it.

To enable participants to have the latest information redirect status may be refreshed responsive to messaging client events for example whenever a user opens a message whenever the user chooses to respond to the message and starts composing it by clicking Reply or Reply all and when the user chooses to send it. If more users have redirected conversation between reply and send commands the client software may alert user of such change and provide the option to proceed or make any changes to address list. Some implementers may optionally refresh list periodically to increase correctness of address list.

When a user chooses to go on sideline using appropriate user interface click touch gesture voice etc. a dialog may pop up or other suitable user interface element may be presented which may ask the user additional information to enhance functionality further. Such additional information may include 

This feature may be used in cases similar to the ones for redirection need but the recipient either does not know who to redirect the message or concludes that all people who he could have redirected the messages to are already included in address list.

Upon invocation of command user s intention may be saved in a database meant for this purpose and all messages in users Inbox pertaining to the same conversation may be moved to a folder designated for such purpose. Any messages received after this action may also be moved to the same folder as long as the user s withdrawn status is not removed by any of the participants from the shared data store.

The message moving part of this feature may be implemented in client software or middleware software or email server or by an independent program which runs periodically to detect these situations.

Email clients used by other participants of the said conversation may be able to query the shared data store and may display the withdrawn status to other participants in multiple ways based on user interface designer s preference. E.g. the participant may have an W super script next to it the participant addresses names may be struck out e.g. participant name address may have a specific background foreground color may be in different font and so on.

Also the client programs may automatically exclude withdrawn participants email addresses names. Furthermore should another participant include a user who had withdrawn from the conversation and has since been removed from the email address list the client software may indicate that the user they just added has opted to withdraw the conversation in a manner consistent as when users name was not removed from address list.

Participants may be offered ways to bring the users who have withdrawn from the conversation back into a conversation themselves or others using appropriate user interface device based on preferred implementation designed by subject matter experts. Undoing withdrawal needs an Add feature described next because there may be several email messages not carrying the added user s email address and the user may miss part of conversation if participants keep using reply all to messages that do not have this user s email address.

So as to enable participants to have the latest information withdraw status may be refreshed responsive to messaging client events for example whenever user opens a message whenever user chooses to respond to the message and starts composing it by clicking reply or reply all and when the user chooses to send it. If more users have withdrawn conversation between reply and send commands the client software may alert user of such change and ask if user wishes to proceed or wishes to make any changes to address list. Some implementers may optionally refresh list periodically to increase correctness of address list.

When a user chooses to go on withdraw from a conversation using appropriate user interface click touch gesture voice etc. a dialog may pop up or other suitable user interface element may be presented which may ask the user additional information to enhance functionality further. Such additional information may include 

This feature may be used in cases such as this a upon receiving an email or after a few email exchanges a participant realizes that sender has not included some other participants.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention this feature works differently than the currently available features of just forwarding an email to the new user or including a new user in one s reply all. For example these conventional techniques can cause new participant to potentially miss future emails in the conversation. This is because other users may reply all to an old email in the thread which does not have new participant s address in the address list. With new participant s address added in shared data store the email client software can include a new user in the address list by referring to shared data store.

Also with this feature when users are added they may get an email without other users seeing sharing . . . type of email reducing emails received by old participants.

Upon invocation of command the system may allow user to select or enter one more email addresses and invoke the add command. Following the execution user s intention may be saved in a database meant for this purpose and all messages in users Inbox pertaining to the same conversation may be forwarded to the selected email address es provided the users are already not on the email list for such messages. A standard text such as You were added to this conversation etc. may be added in the forwarded message.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention any messages received after this action are not forwarded automatically as sender may have intentionally removed these participants.

The shared data store may record particular message ids and new users who were added to conversation. This may be used by client programs to display who were sent which messages from conversation because of this feature as assumption cannot be made that all messages from conversation may be sent to the new user as described in discussion about how reply all should work in accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention.

Email clients used by other participants of said conversation may be able to query the shared data store and based on designer s preference may display new users who were added to the conversation even though the email headers may not have the new user listed. This may let other users who wish to add same new participants know that they have been already added. E.g. newly added participant address name may have A superscript e.g. usera1 acme.com usera2 acme.com participant name address may have a specific background foreground color may be in different font and so on.

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention when a user invokes reply all the newly added users which are not included in the email headers for recipient lists should be included and such inclusion should be high lighted so that the sender would have opportunity to remove any users he she does not want to send new message to.

So as to enable participants to have latest information recipient lists may be refreshed responsive to messaging client events for example whenever a user opens a message whenever user chooses to reply all to the message and when the user chooses to send it. Some implementers may optionally refresh lists periodically during a long compose time to increase correctness of recipient list.

When a user chooses this action a dialog may pop up or other suitable user interface element may be presented which may ask the user additional information to enhance functionality further. Such additional information may include 

When the re invite to conversation command is invoked this information may remove or invalidate user s state in the shared data store with regards to the present conversation. Consequently the program modules which would have filtered or moved any messages related to conversation based on user s state in shared data store.

All participants may be offered ways to bring the users back into conversation by themselves or by others using appropriate user interface device based on preferred implementation designed by subject matter experts. E.g. user may be able to right click or touch sideline participant s address in the recipient list to see a popup menu and click on a command an icon etc. to bring user back into conversation.

When a user chooses to go on sideline using appropriate user interface click touch gesture voice etc. a dialog may pop up or other suitable user interface element may be presented which may ask the user additional information to enhance functionality further. Such additional information may include 

This feature may save time for many users by removing messages related to conversations that are saved from inbox when conversations are closed. Such feature may be of particular help for users who come back to their email after an extended period say after a couple of days of business trip or a week of vacation because many of the messages that are no longer relevant may be already moved away or filtered out from inbox view.

Upon invocation of command by one of the participants close conversation command is executed and user s intention may be saved in a database meant for this purpose.

The feature can be implemented in multiple manners. Some examples are An email client program may poll the shared data store every so often to see if any conversations are closed and then move all closed conversations to designated folder. Alternatively messages may be left in the same folder but may be hidden from inbox view unless the user asks for them. Instead of implementing in email client the program may be implemented in middleware the middleware when asked to refresh inbox may do moving of messages to designated folder or filtering of messages. The same may be done in email server program as well.

This feature may allow participants to reopen a conversation if it is closed by mistake or if one of the participants does not agree with closing the conversation.

A user may be able to locate the closed conversation list or look at conversation closed message and invoke a command to reopen conversation.

The feature may be implemented in multiple manners. Some examples are An email client program may poll the shared data store every so often to see if any conversations are reopened and if the closed messages are stored in a designated folder they may be moved back to inbox or if they were hidden from in box with a filter they may no longer be hidden etc. Instead of implementing in email client the program may be implemented in middleware the middleware or email server. The implementation architecture can be decided by the architect experienced in the knowledge of art based on various factors suitable for the implementing team.

Features exist to flag conversations as important for one or for marking messages as important when one sends an email. The deficiencies noted in these instances are a after message is sent you cannot change priority unless you resend message b you cannot selectively make conversation high priority for some of the participants. c you cannot assign priority ranking so as to sort conversations.

This feature may allow users to mark messages with priority ranking so the messages may be sorted by priority order. If messages arrive marked as high priority but one of the users as one of the participants does not feel it is important for his or her purpose user may opt to lower priority.

A manager or triage person may also use this feature to elevate priority of conversations for selected participants.

The feature may also allow rules to define priority. For example a user may set up rule as if my manager has decided a conversation is high priority and if I am on the to list make conversation high priority for me too.

Users may be allowed to invoke command by using suitable user interface such as touch the addressee in recipient list or right click on the addressee and then select set priority and enter or pick a number. Interface may be defined in multiple other ways based on designer s preference. Upon invoking such command the priority may be stored in shared data store and may be available for others to see.

Continuously arriving emails can cause disruption of work. Many people cannot easily ignore emails trickling in their Inbox. Switching between non urgent email and other work can waste time unnecessarily. This feature may allow users to setup Quiet time for themselves or system wide Quiet times. This feature may stop any non urgent emails during this period. Alternatively or in addition a user may fine tune the types of messages that may be received during a quiet period for example utilizing quite period exception rules.

A user may be able to set Quiet time in a manner similar to calendar feature offered by most email clients. The client may not poll email server during the time period marked as Quiet.

Many people are in habit of replying to all without checking the TO and CC lists carefully. In addition as this invention allows participants to go on sideline or to withdraw there is a risk that a sender may not realize the participants they are addressing are not going to receive the message. This feature may provide senders opportunity to review recipient list their current status and adjust it appropriately.

When a user chooses to send a message a notification may be presented to the sender for example a popup window. Notification may have a list of participants depending on which features are implemented in the embodiment their current status pertaining to conversation for example information about whether they are on sideline or have withdrawn redirected it etc. The information about whether participants are currently in quiet mode may also be presented if implemented .

The sender may be offered features to re invite participants who are not participating currently and selectively mark messages for particular participants to override participants status and deliver this particular message in their inbox irrespective of conversation participation status.

Many people are in habit of replying to all without checking the TO and CC lists carefully. In addition as this invention allows participants to go on sideline or to withdraw there is a risk that sender may not realize the participants they are addressing are not going to receive the message. This feature may provide senders opportunity to review recipient list their current status and adjust it appropriately.

There are multiple aspects of sender s checklist functionality that may be implemented independent of each other. Implementing any one of them may be covered by this invention.

When a user chooses to send a message a notification may be presented to the sender for example a popup window. Notification may have a list of participants and user may have opportunity to change TO CC and BCC status for each recipient.

When a user chooses to send a message a notification may be presented to the sender for example a popup window. Notification may have a list of participants depending on which features are implemented in the embodiment their current status pertaining to conversation for example information about whether they are on sideline or have withdrawn redirected it etc. The information about whether participants are currently in quiet mode may also be presented if implemented .

The sender may be offered features selectively mark messages for particular participants to deliver current message in their inbox irrespective of their current status for quiet mode or for conversation.

The sender may be offered features to re invite participants who are not participating currently in the current conversation.

The sender may be offered features to specify for each participant what is expected. For example Action is needed Must read FYI OK to ignore etc.

The system may adjust TO and CC lists automatically based on what sender specifies. For example Action is needed and Must read may result into TO list whereas FYI and OK to Ignore may result in CC list.

The system may OK to Ignore messages may be moved to sideline folder but may still be shown in conversation thread.

The system may retrieve participant s unavailability recorded in the email system and display it to the sender so that sender is able adjust assignment of tasks.

The message folder hierarchy may further include a Low Priority sub hierarchy with multiple actual type subfolders e.g. holding authoritative instances of messages rather than mere copies or references . Messages may be moved here based on conversation statuses. Low Priority subfolders may include Closed Delegated Redirected Sideline system Sideline by me Waiting and Withdraw. The Waiting folder may hold non urgent messages that are destined for the user s inbox once a user has exited quiet mode. The Delegated subfolder may have subfolders of its own corresponding to delegates.

With a sender s checklist a sender may check who needs to take action for whom a message is urgent and so on before sending. By default being listed in a To or CC field of a message may correspond to a For Your Information FYI conversation participation status. Responsive to an Urgent conversation participation status setting a targeted user s messaging identifier e.g. email address may be moved to the To and a new X UR header of the conversation and or an associated message. Upon receipt sideline withdrawn and or quiet mode statuses may be overridden. Responsive to an Action conversation participation status setting a targeted user s messaging identifier e.g. email address may be moved to the To and a new X AR header of the conversation and or an associated message. Upon receipt sideline and or withdrawn statuses may be overridden. Responsive to a Read or Must Read conversation participation status setting a targeted user s messaging identifier e.g. email address may be moved to the To and a new X MR header of the conversation and or an associated message. Upon receipt sideline and or withdrawn statuses may be overridden. Responsive to an FYI conversation participation status setting a targeted user s messaging identifier e.g. email address may be moved to the CC and a new X FYI header of the conversation and or an associated message. Responsive to an JIC conversation participation status setting a targeted user s messaging identifier e.g. email address may be moved to the CC and a new X JIC header of the conversation and or an associated message. Upon receipt the conversation and or associated message may be moved to the targeted user s JIC folder and or shown in a conversation window such as the conversation presentation region of . Responsive to a Remove conversation participation status setting a targeted user s messaging identifier e.g. email address may be removed from the To and or CC headers of the conversation and or an associated message. Although example header names such as X UR X AR X MR X FYI and X JIC are used herein for clarity any suitable header name may be utilized. Alternatively or in addition corresponding information may be incorporated into any suitable non header message field in accordance with any suitable messaging protocol including standard extended and customized messaging protocols.

At presence of a recipient override with respect to the conversation participation status may be detected. For example the conversation participation status obtained at may be active or reading e.g. the conversation participant is actively engaged in the conversation but the recipient may currently be in quiet mode. If a recipient override is detected a procedure incorporating may progress to . Otherwise the procedure may progress to . At the conversation participation status obtained at may be modified in accordance with the recipient override detected at . The modification may be persistent or temporary e.g. until the message received at is processed or the recipient s quiet period elapses . At the message may be added to the electronic conversation in accordance with the selected conversation participant s conversation participation status possibly as modified by and or . At presence of additional conversation participants and or message recipients may be detected. When additional conversation participants and or message recipients are detected the procedure may progress to . Otherwise the procedure may progress to one or more operations not shown in .

In accordance with at least one embodiment of the invention the system apparatus methods processes and or operations described above may be wholly or partially implemented in the form of a set of instructions executed by one or more programmed computer processors such as a central processing unit CPU or microprocessor. Such processors may be incorporated in an apparatus server client or other computing device operated by or in communication with other components of the system. As an example depicts aspects of elements that may be present in a computing device and or system configured to implement a method and or process in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. The subsystems shown in are interconnected via a system bus . Additional subsystems may include a printer a keyboard a fixed disk and a monitor which is coupled to a display adapter . Peripherals and input output I O devices which couple to an I O controller can be connected to the computer system with any number of means known in the art such as a serial port . For example the serial port or an external interface can be utilized to connect the computing device to further devices and or systems not shown in including a wide area network such as the Internet a mouse input device and or a scanner. The interconnection via the system bus allows one or more processors to communicate with each subsystem and to control the execution of instructions that may be stored in a system memory and or the fixed disk as well as the exchange of information between subsystems. The system memory and or the fixed disk may embody a tangible non transitory computer readable medium. Suitable computing devices in accordance with at least one embodiment need not have each of the components depicted in . Alternatively or in addition one or more of the computers depicted in may be integrally combined and or virtualized. For example mobile computing devices such as tablet computers and smart phones may omit the printer and virtualize the keyboard with a monitor and or screen that incorporates a touch sensitive input function e.g. the screen may display an image of a keyboard and generate virtual key presses in response to corresponding screen touches . The fixed disk may be a solid state drive SDD and or a collection of flash memory and may be incorporated into the memory .

Example 1 a method for managing a set of electronic messages that are associated with a plurality of electronic conversations each having a plurality of participants the method including receiving a first electronic message of an electronic conversation and in response processing the first electronic message for a first participant of the electronic conversation in accordance with a default procedure receiving a first indication that the electronic conversation has been assigned a conversation participation status by the first participant providing a second indication that the electronic conversation has been assigned the conversation participation status for presentation to a second participant of the electronic conversation and receiving a second electronic message of the electronic conversation and in response processing the second electronic message for the first participant in accordance with a non default procedure wherein the non default procedure is selected based at least in part on the conversation participation status.

Example 2 a method in accordance with example 1 wherein the set of electronic messages comprises email messages the default procedure comprises placing the first electronic message in a default electronic message presentation collection the conversation participation status comprises a sideline status and the non default procedure comprises placing the second electronic message in a sideline electronic message presentation collection distinct from the default electronic message presentation collection. Example 3 a method in accordance with example 1 or 2 further including receiving information corresponding to a reason that the first participant assigned the conversation participation status to the electronic conversation and providing the information corresponding to the reason for presentation to the second participant. Example 4 a method in accordance with example 3 wherein the information corresponding to the reason comprises text provided by the first participant.

Example 5 a method in accordance with example 1 3 or 4 wherein the electronic conversation was automatically assigned the conversation participation status based at least in part on a conversation participation status rule configured by the first participant. Example 6 a method in accordance with example 5 wherein the conversation participation status rule configured by the first participant assigns the conversation participation status based at least in part on a schedule. Example 7 a method in accordance with example 1 5 or 6 wherein the default procedure comprises placing the first electronic message in a default electronic message presentation collection the conversation participation status comprises a redirect status and the non default procedure comprises redirecting the second electronic message to a new participant of the electronic conversation and inhibiting placement of the second electronic message in an electronic message presentation collection of the first participant.

Example 8 a method in accordance with example 1 6 or 7 further including responsive to providing the second indication receiving an invitation for the first participant to modify the conversation participation status assigned to the electronic conversation receiving an indication of approval from the first participant to modify the conversation participation status as specified by the invitation and modifying the conversation participation status as specified by the invitation. Example 9 a method in accordance with example 1 7 or 8 wherein the set of electronic messages comprises email messages the conversation participation status comprises a closed status and the non default procedure comprises inhibiting delivery of the second electronic message to the plurality of participants of the electronic conversation. Example 10 a method in accordance with example 1 8 or 9 further including receiving a conversation participation status override command associated with the second electronic message determining a procedure for processing the second electronic message based at least in part on the conversation participation status override command and processing the second electronic message in accordance with the determined procedure instead of the non default procedure selected based at least in part on the assigned conversation participation status.

Example 11 an apparatus for managing a set of electronic messages that are associated with a plurality of electronic conversations each having a plurality of participants the apparatus including a conversation participation status module configured to at least maintain a conversation participation status corresponding to each participant of an electronic conversation of the plurality of electronic conversations and provide for presentation to at least two of the plurality of participants of the electronic conversation information corresponding to the conversation participation status of at least two of the plurality of participants with respect to the electronic conversation an electronic messaging engine configured to at least receive an electronic message associated with the electronic conversation and process the electronic message with respect to each participant of the electronic conversation utilizing an electronic message processing procedure determined for the participant based at least in part on the maintained conversation participation status of the participant with respect to the electronic conversation and one or more processors configured to facilitate at least the conversation participation status module and the electronic messaging engine.

Example 12 an apparatus in accordance with example 11 wherein the conversation participation status module and the electronic message engine are implemented at least in part with one or more server computers and the information corresponding to the conversation participation status of said at least two of the plurality of participants is presented with a plurality of client computers distinct from the one or more server computers. Example 13 an apparatus in accordance with example 11 or 12 wherein the conversation participation status module and the electronic message engine are implemented with a peer to peer swarm of computing devices. Example 14 an apparatus in accordance with example 11 12 or 13 further including a graphical user interface module configured at least to provide for presentation to a participant of the electronic conversation information identifying at least two of the plurality of participants of the electronic conversation and information identifying the conversation participation status of at least two of the plurality of participants with respect to the electronic conversation. Example 15 an apparatus in accordance with example 14 wherein the graphical user interface module is further configured to enable a participant of the electronic conversation to modify the conversation participation status of the participant with respect to the electronic conversation.

Example 16 an apparatus for managing a set of electronic messages that are associated with a plurality of electronic conversations each having a plurality of participants the apparatus including a graphical user interface module configured to at least provide for presentation to a first participant of an electronic conversation of the plurality of electronic conversations information associated with an electronic message of the electronic conversation the information associated with the electronic message including an identification of at least two of the plurality of participants of the electronic conversation and an indication of a conversation participation status of at least two of the plurality of participants with respect to the electronic conversation the presentation of the information to the first participant being based at least in part on the conversation participation status of the participant with respect to the electronic conversation receive an update with respect to the conversation participation status of a second participant of the electronic conversation and provide the updated conversation participation status for presentation to the first participant and one or more processors configured to facilitate at least the graphical user interface module.

Example 17 an apparatus in accordance with example 16 wherein the presentation of the information associated with the electronic message visually associates the identification of the at least two of the plurality of participants with the corresponding indication of the conversation participation status of the participant. Example 18 an apparatus in accordance with example 17 wherein the set of electronic messages comprises email messages and the presentation of the information associated with the electronic message comprises a plurality of participant identifiers corresponding to email addresses at least two of the plurality of participant identifiers modified or marked in accordance with the conversation participation status of the corresponding participant. Example 19 an apparatus in accordance with example 16 17 or 18 wherein the graphics user interface module is configured to provide the first participant access to the plurality of electronic conversations utilizing an electronic message folder hierarchy and the electronic conversation is associated with an electronic folder of the electronic message folder hierarchy based at least in part on the conversation participation status of the first participant with respect to the electronic conversation. Example 20 an apparatus in accordance with example 16 18 or 19 wherein the conversation participation status comprises at least one of sidelined delegated redirected withdrawn closed or quiet period.

Example 21 a method for managing a set of electronic messages that are associated with a plurality of electronic conversations each having a plurality of participants the method including receiving a first electronic message of an electronic conversation and in response processing the first electronic message for a first participant of the electronic conversation in accordance with a default procedure receiving a first indication that the electronic conversation has been assigned a conversation participation status by the first participant providing a second indication that the electronic conversation has been assigned the conversation participation status for presentation to a second participant of the electronic conversation and processing the second electronic message for the second participant in accordance with a non default procedure wherein the non default procedure is selected based at least in part on the conversation participation status.

Example 22 a method in accordance with example 21 wherein the processing of the second electronic message for the second participant in accordance with a non default procedure occurs in response to interaction by the second participant with respect to a representation of the second electronic message. Example 23 a method in accordance with example 21 or 22 further including receiving information corresponding to a reason that the first participant assigned the conversation participation status to the electronic conversation and providing the information corresponding to the reason for presentation to the second participant. Example 24 a method in accordance with example 23 wherein the information corresponding to the reason is presented to the second participant responsive to interaction by the second participant with respect to a representation of the second electronic message.

Example 25 a method in accordance with example 1 9 or 10 wherein the second electronic message is associated with a conversation participation status override such that the second electronic message is processed for the first participant in accordance with the default procedure despite the conversation participation status assigned by the first participant. Example 26 a method in accordance with example 1 10 or 25 wherein the second electronic message is associated with a conversation participation status override and the non default procedure is selected based at least in part on the conversation participation status and the conversation participation status override.

Example 26 method for managing a set of electronic messages the method comprising receiving a specification of a period of time associated with an electronic messaging quiet mode for a user receiving an electronic message directed to the user during the period of time associated with the electronic messaging quiet mode determining whether the electronic message is associated with an exception to the electronic messaging quiet mode when the electronic message is associated with an exception to the electronic messaging quiet mode delivering the electronic message to the user and when the electronic message is not associated with an exception to the electronic messaging quiet mode inhibiting delivery of the electronic message to the user until the period of time associated with the electronic messaging quiet mode has elapsed.

Example 27 method for managing a set of electronic messages that are associated with a plurality of electronic conversations each having a plurality of participants the method comprising receiving an indication that a conversation participant intends to add an electronic message to an electronic conversation having a plurality of participants causing presentation of a conversation participation status checklist the conversation participation status checklist including an indication of at least one conversation participation status for each of the plurality of participants of the electronic conversation and responsive to interaction with the conversation participation status checklist by the conversation participant providing an update to at least one conversation participation status of at least one of the plurality of participants of the electronic conversation wherein the electronic message is added to the electronic conversation such that the conversation participation status of each of the plurality of participants is respected.

Example 28 method for managing a set of electronic messages the method comprising receiving a specification of a period of time associated with an electronic messaging participant status for a user receiving an electronic message directed to the user during the period of time associated with the electronic messaging participant status determining whether the electronic message is associated with an exception to the electronic messaging participant status when the electronic message is associated with an exception to the electronic messaging participant status delivering the electronic message to the user and when the electronic message is not associated with an exception to the electronic messaging participant status inhibiting delivery of the electronic message to the user until the period of time associated with the electronic messaging participant status has elapsed.

Example 29 method for managing a set of electronic messages that are associated with a plurality of electronic conversations each having a plurality of participants the method comprising receiving an indication that a conversation participant intends to add an electronic message to an electronic conversation having a plurality of participants causing presentation of a conversation participation status checklist the conversation participation status checklist including an indication of at least one conversation participation status for each of the plurality of participants of the electronic conversation and responsive to interaction with the conversation participation status checklist by the conversation participant overriding or providing an update to at least one conversation participation status of at least one of the plurality of participants of the electronic conversation wherein the electronic message is added to the electronic conversation in accordance with the conversation participation status of each of the plurality of participants including the overridden or updated at least one conversation participation status.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and or were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the specification and in the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms having including containing and similar referents in the specification and in the following claims are to be construed as open ended terms e.g. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely indented to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value inclusively falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation to the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to each embodiment of the present invention.

Numerical data may be expressed or presented herein in a range format. It is to be understood that such a range format is used merely for convenience and brevity and thus should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also interpreted to include all of the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. As an illustration a numerical range of about 1 to 5 should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited values of about 1 to about 5 but also include individual values and sub ranges within the indicated range. Thus included in this numerical range are individual values such as 2 3 and 4 and sub ranges such as 1 3 2 4 and 3 5 etc. This same principle applies to ranges reciting only one numerical value e.g. greater than about 1 and should apply regardless of the breadth of the range or the characteristics being described. A plurality of items may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without clear indication to the contrary.

As used herein the term alternatively refers to selection of one of two or more alternatives and is not intended to limit the selection to only those listed alternatives or to only one of the listed alternatives at a time unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The term substantially means that the recited characteristic parameter or value need not be achieved exactly but that deviations or variations including for example tolerances measurement error measurement accuracy limitations and other factors known to those of skill in the art may occur in amounts that do not preclude the effect the characteristic was intended to provide.

Different arrangements of the components depicted in the drawings or described above as well as components and steps not shown or described are possible. Similarly some features and subcombinations are useful and may be employed without reference to other features and subcombinations. Embodiments of the invention have been described for illustrative and not restrictive purposes and alternative embodiments will become apparent to readers of this patent. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to the embodiments described above or depicted in the drawings and various embodiments and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the claims below.

