---

title: Seismic survey using an augmented reality device
abstract: Various implementations described herein are directed to a seismic survey using an augmented reality device. In one implementation, a method may include determining current location data of an augmented reality (AR) device in a physical environment. The method may also include receiving placement instructions for a first seismic survey equipment in the physical environment based on the current location data. The method may further include displaying the placement instructions in combination with a view of the physical environment on the AR device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09329286&OS=09329286&RS=09329286
owner: WesternGeco L.L.C.
number: 09329286
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141002
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 886 412 filed Oct. 3 2013 and titled AUGMENTED REALITY FOR SEISMIC OPERATIONS the entire disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.

Seismic exploration may involve surveying subterranean geological formations for hydrocarbon deposits. A seismic survey may involve deploying survey equipment such as seismic source s and seismic sensors at predetermined locations. The sources may generate seismic waves which propagate into the geological formations creating pressure changes and vibrations along their way. Changes in elastic properties of the geological formation may scatter the seismic waves changing their direction of propagation and other properties. Part of the energy emitted by the sources may reach the seismic sensors. Some seismic sensors may be sensitive to pressure changes hydrophones others to particle motion e.g. geophones and industrial surveys may deploy one type of sensors or both. In response to the detected seismic events the sensors may generate electrical signals to produce seismic data. Analysis of the seismic data can then indicate the presence or absence of probable locations of hydrocarbon deposits.

In one scenario deploying survey equipment in a production field may be a time consuming process depending on the conditions of the field weather conditions and or the like. Similarly the recovery and or repair of such equipment in the field may be slowed by the conditions of the field lack of knowledge of the repairs needed and or the like.

Described herein are implementations of various technologies and techniques for a seismic survey using an augmented reality device. In one implementation a method may include determining current location data of an augmented reality AR device in a physical environment. The method may also include receiving placement instructions for a first seismic survey equipment in the physical environment based on the current location data. The method may further include displaying the placement instructions in combination with a view of the physical environment on the AR device.

In another implementation a method may include determining current location data of an augmented reality AR device in a physical environment. The method may also include receiving data for planned positions for seismic survey equipment in the physical environment. The method may further include generating placement instructions for the seismic survey equipment based on the current location data and the data for the planned positions. The method may additionally include displaying the placement instructions in combination with a view of the physical environment on the AR device.

In yet another implementation a method may include determining current location data of an augmented reality AR device in a physical environment receiving position data for one or more seismic survey equipment disposed in the physical environment generating one or more retrieval data for the one or more seismic survey equipment based on the position data and the current location data and displaying the retrieval data in combination with a view of the physical environment.

In still another implementation a method may include displaying a view of a physical environment on an augmented reality AR device where the physical environment includes seismic survey equipment disposed in the view. The method may also include receiving status data for the seismic survey equipment. The method may further include displaying the status data in combination with a view of the physical environment.

The above referenced summary section is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description section. The summary is not intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure. Indeed the systems methods processing procedures techniques and workflows disclosed herein may complement or replace conventional methods for identifying isolating and or processing various aspects of seismic signals or other data that is collected from a subsurface region or other multi dimensional space including time lapse seismic data collected in a plurality of surveys.

The discussion below is directed to certain specific implementations. It is to be understood that the discussion below is for the purpose of enabling a person with ordinary skill in the art to make and use any subject matter defined now or later by the patent claims found in any issued patent herein.

It is specifically intended that the claims not be limited to the implementations and illustrations contained herein but include modified forms of those implementations including portions of the implementations and combinations of elements of different implementations as come within the scope of the following claims.

Reference will now be made in detail to various implementations examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and figures. In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components circuits and networks have not been described in detail so as not to obscure aspects of the embodiments.

It will also be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are used to distinguish one element from another. For example a first object could be termed a second object and similarly a second object could be termed a first object without departing from the scope of the claims. The first object and the second object are both objects respectively but they are not to be considered the same object.

The terminology used in the description of the present disclosure herein is for the purpose of describing particular implementations and is not intended to be limiting of the present disclosure. As used in the description of the present disclosure and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will also be understood that the term and or as used herein refers to and encompasses one or more possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. It will be further understood that the terms includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers operations elements components and or groups thereof.

As used herein the terms up and down upper and lower upwardly and downwardly below and above and other similar terms indicating relative positions above or below a given point or element may be used in connection with some implementations of various technologies described herein. However when applied to equipment and methods for use in wells that are deviated or horizontal or when applied to equipment and methods that when arranged in a well are in a deviated or horizontal orientation such terms may refer to a left to right right to left or other relationships as appropriate.

It should also be noted that in the development of any such actual implementation numerous decisions specific to circumstance may be made to achieve the developer s specific goals such as compliance with system related and business related constraints which will vary from one implementation to another. Moreover it will be appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking for those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

The terminology and phraseology used herein is solely used for descriptive purposes and should not be construed as limiting in scope. Language such as having containing or involving and variations thereof is intended to be broad and encompass the subject matter listed thereafter equivalents and additional subject matter not recited.

Furthermore the description and examples are presented solely for the purpose of illustrating the different embodiments and should not be construed as a limitation to the scope and applicability. While any composition or structure may be described herein as having certain materials it should be understood that the composition could optionally include two or more different materials. In addition the composition or structure may also include some components other than the ones already cited. It should also be understood that throughout this specification when a range is described as being useful or suitable or the like it is intended that any value within the range including the end points is to be considered as having been stated. Furthermore respective numerical values should be read once as modified by the term about unless already expressly so modified and then read again as not to be so modified unless otherwise stated in context. For example a range of from 1 to 10 is to be read as indicating a respective possible number along the continuum between about 1 and about 10. In other words when a certain range is expressed even if a few specific data points are explicitly identified or referred to within the range or even when no data points are referred to within the range it is to be understood that the inventors appreciate and understand that any data points within the range are to be considered to have been specified and that the inventors have possession of the entire range and points within the range.

As used herein the term if may be construed to mean when or upon or in response to determining or in response to detecting depending on the context. Similarly the phrase if it is determined or if a stated condition or event is detected may be construed to mean upon determining or in response to determining or upon detecting the stated condition or event or in response to detecting the stated condition or event depending on the context.

One or more implementations of various techniques for a seismic survey using an augmented reality device will now be described in more detail with reference to in the following paragraphs.

Seismic exploration may involve surveying subterranean geological formations for hydrocarbon deposits. A seismic survey may involve deploying seismic equipment such as seismic source s and seismic sensors at predetermined locations in one or more various configurations as further explained below.

Computer facilities may be positioned at various locations about the production field e.g. the surface unit and or at remote locations. Surface unit may be used to communicate with the drilling tools and or offsite operations as well as with other surface or downhole sensors. Surface unit may be capable of communicating with the drilling tools to send commands to the drilling tools and to receive data therefrom. Surface unit may also collect data generated during the drilling operation and produce data output which may then be stored or transmitted.

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about production field to collect data relating to various production field operations as described previously. As shown sensor S may be positioned in one or more locations in the drilling tools and or at rig to measure drilling parameters such as weight on bit torque on bit pressures temperatures flow rates compositions rotary speed and or other parameters of the field operation. Sensors S may also be positioned in one or more locations in the circulating system.

Drilling tools . may include a bottom hole assembly BHA not shown generally referenced near the drill bit e.g. within several drill collar lengths from the drill bit . The bottom hole assembly may include capabilities for measuring processing and storing information as well as communicating with surface unit . The bottom hole assembly may further include drill collars for performing various other measurement functions.

The bottom hole assembly may include a communication subassembly that communicates with surface unit . The communication subassembly may be adapted to send signals to and receive signals from the surface using a communications channel such as mud pulse telemetry electro magnetic telemetry or wired drill pipe communications. The communication subassembly may include for example a transmitter that generates a signal such as an acoustic or electromagnetic signal which is representative of the measured drilling parameters. It may be appreciated by one of skill in the art that a variety of telemetry systems may be employed such as wired drill pipe electromagnetic or other known telemetry systems.

The wellbore may be drilled according to a drilling plan that is established prior to drilling. The drilling plan may set forth equipment pressures trajectories and or other parameters that define the drilling process for the wellsite. The drilling operation may then be performed according to the drilling plan. However as information is gathered the drilling operation may need to deviate from the drilling plan. Additionally as drilling or other operations are performed the subsurface conditions may change. The earth model may also need adjustment as new information is collected.

The data gathered by sensors S may be collected by surface unit and or other data collection sources for analysis or other processing. The data collected by sensors S may be used alone or in combination with other data. The data may be collected in one or more databases and or transmitted on or offsite. The data may be historical data real time data or combinations thereof. The real time data may be used in real time or stored for later use. The data may also be combined with historical data or other inputs for further analysis. The data may be stored in separate databases or combined into a single database.

Surface unit may include transceiver to allow communications between surface unit and various portions of the production field or other locations. Surface unit may also be provided with or functionally connected to one or more controllers not shown for actuating mechanisms at production field . Surface unit may then send command signals to production field in response to data received. Surface unit may receive commands via transceiver or may itself execute commands to the controller. A processor may be provided to analyze the data locally or remotely make the decisions and or actuate the controller. In this manner production field may be selectively adjusted based on the data collected. This technique may be used to optimize portions of the field operation such as controlling drilling weight on bit pump rates or other parameters. These adjustments may be made automatically based on computer protocol and or manually by an operator. In some cases well plans may be adjusted to select optimum operating conditions or to avoid problems.

Wireline tool . may be operatively connected to for example geophones and a computer . of a seismic truck . of . Wireline tool . may also provide data to surface unit . Surface unit may collect data generated during the wireline operation and may produce data output that may be stored or transmitted. Wireline tool . may be positioned at various depths in the wellbore to provide a survey or other information relating to the subterranean formation .

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about production field to collect data relating to various field operations as described previously. As shown sensor S may be positioned in wireline tool . to measure downhole parameters which relate to for example porosity permeability fluid composition and or other parameters of the field operation.

Sensors S such as gauges may be positioned about production field to collect data relating to various field operations as described previously. As shown the sensor S may be positioned in production tool . or associated equipment such as Christmas tree gathering network surface facility and or the production facility to measure fluid parameters such as fluid composition flow rates pressures temperatures and or other parameters of the production operation.

Production may also include injection wells for added recovery. One or more gathering facilities may be operatively connected to one or more of the wellsites for selectively collecting downhole fluids from the wellsite s .

While illustrate tools used to measure properties of a production field such as an oilfield or gas field it may be appreciated that the tools may be used in connection with other operations such as mines aquifers storage or other subterranean facilities. Also while certain data acquisition tools are depicted it may be appreciated that various measurement tools capable of sensing parameters such as seismic two way travel time density resistivity production rate etc. of the subterranean formation and or its geological formations may be used. Various sensors S may be located at various positions along the wellbore and or the monitoring tools to collect and or monitor the desired data. Other sources of data may also be provided from offsite locations.

The field configurations of may be an example of a field usable with oilfield or gas field application frameworks. At least part of the production field may be on land water and or sea. Also while a single field measured at a single location may be depicted oilfield or gas field applications may be utilized with any combination of one or more oilfields and or gas field one or more processing facilities and one or more wellsites.

Data plots . . may be examples of static data plots that may be generated by data acquisition tools . . respectively however it should be understood that data plots . . may also be data plots that are updated in real time. These measurements may be analyzed to better define the properties of the formation s and or determine the accuracy of the measurements and or for checking for errors. The plots of each of the respective measurements may be aligned and scaled for comparison and verification of the properties.

Static data plot . may be a seismic two way response over a period of time. Static plot . may be core sample data measured from a core sample of the formation . The core sample may be used to provide data such as a graph of the density porosity permeability or some other physical property of the core sample over the length of the core. Tests for density and viscosity may be performed on the fluids in the core at varying pressures and temperatures. Static data plot . may be a logging trace that may provide a resistivity or other measurement of the formation at various depths.

A production decline curve or graph . may be a dynamic data plot of the fluid flow rate over time. The production decline curve may provide the production rate as a function of time. As the fluid flows through the wellbore measurements may be taken of fluid properties such as flow rates pressures composition etc.

Other data may also be collected such as historical data user inputs economic information and or other measurement data and other parameters of interest. As described below the static and dynamic measurements may be analyzed and used to generate models of the subterranean formation to determine characteristics thereof. Similar measurements may also be used to measure changes in formation aspects over time.

The subterranean structure may have a plurality of geological formations . .. As shown this structure may have several formations or layers including a shale layer . a carbonate layer . a shale layer . and a sand layer .. A fault may extend through the shale layer . and the carbonate layer .. The static data acquisition tools may be adapted to take measurements and detect characteristics of the formations.

While a specific subterranean formation with specific geological structures is depicted it may be appreciated that production field may contain a variety of geological structures and or formations sometimes having extreme complexity. In some locations such as below the water line fluid may occupy pore spaces of the formations. Each of the measurement devices may be used to measure properties of the formations and or its geological features. While each acquisition tool may be shown as being in specific locations in production field it may be appreciated that one or more types of measurement may be taken at one or more locations across one or more fields or other locations for comparison and or analysis.

The data collected from various sources such as the data acquisition tools of may then be processed and or evaluated. The seismic data displayed in static data plot . from data acquisition tool . may be used by a geophysicist to determine characteristics of the subterranean formations and features. The core data shown in static plot . and or log data from well log . may be used by a geologist to determine various characteristics of the subterranean formation. The production data from graph . may be used by the reservoir engineer to determine fluid flow reservoir characteristics. The data analyzed by the geologist geophysicist and the reservoir engineer may be analyzed using modeling techniques.

Each wellsite may have equipment that forms wellbore into the earth. The wellbores may extend through subterranean formations including reservoirs . These reservoirs may contain fluids such as hydrocarbons. The wellsites may draw fluid from the reservoirs and pass them to the processing facilities via surface networks . The surface networks may have tubing and control mechanisms for controlling the flow of fluids from the wellsite to processing facility .

Although two vessels are illustrated in a single vessel with multiple source arrays or multiple vessels with single or multiple sources may be used. In some implementations at least one source and or source array may be located on the rig as shown by the rig source in . As the vessels travel on predetermined or systematic paths their locations may be recorded through the use of navigation system . In some implementations the navigation system may utilize a global positioning system GPS to record the position speed direction and other parameters of the tow vessels .

As shown the global positioning system may utilize or work in cooperation with satellites which operate on a suitable communication protocol e.g. VSAT communications. The VSAT communications may be used among other things to supplement VHF and UHF communications. The GPS information can be independent of the VSAT communications and may be input to a processing system or other suitable processors to predict the future movement and position of the vessels based on real time information. In addition to predicting future movements the processing system also can be utilized to provide directions and coordinates as well as to determine initial shot times as described above. A control system effectively utilizes the processing system in cooperation with a source controller and a synchronization unit to synchronize the sources with the downhole data acquisition system .

As shown the one or more vessels may respectively tow one or more acoustic sources source arrays . The source arrays include one or more seismic signal generators e.g. air guns configured to create a seismic and or sonic disturbance. In the implementation illustrated the tow vessels comprise a master source vessel Vessel A and a slave source vessel Vessel B . However other numbers and arrangements of tow vessels may be employed to accommodate the parameters of a given seismic profiling application. For example one source may be mounted at rig see or at another suitable location and both vessels may serve as slave vessels with respect to the rig source or with respect to a source at another location.

However a variety of source arrangements and implementations may be used. When utilizing dithered timing between the sources for example the master and slave locations of the sources can be adjusted according to the parameters of the specific seismic profiling application. In some implementations one of the source vessels e.g. source vessel A in may serve as the master source vessel while the other source vessel serves as the slave source vessel with dithered firing. However an alternate source vessel e.g. source vessel B in may serve as the master source vessel while the other source vessel serves as the slave source vessel with dithered firing.

Similarly the rig source may serve as the master source while one of the source vessels e.g. vessel A serves as the slave source vessel with dithered firing. The rig source also may serve as the master source while the other source vessel e.g. vessel B serves as the slave source vessel with dithered firing. In some implementations the rig source may serve as the master source while both of the source vessels serve as slave source vessels each with dithered firings. These and other implementations may be used in achieving the desired synchronization of sources with the downhole acquisition system .

The acoustic receivers of data acquisition system may be deployed in borehole via a variety of delivery systems such as wireline delivery systems slickline delivery systems and other suitable delivery systems. Although a single acoustic receiver could be used in the borehole a plurality of receivers as shown may be located in a variety of positions and orientations. The acoustic receivers may be configured for sonic and or seismic reception. Additionally the acoustic receivers may be communicatively coupled with processing equipment located downhole. In one implementation processing equipment may comprise a telemetry system for transmitting data from acoustic receivers to additional processing equipment located at the surface e.g. on the rig and or vessels .

Depending on the data communication system surface processing equipment may include a radio repeater an acquisition and logging unit and a variety of other and or additional signal transfer components and signal processing components. The radio repeater along with other components of processing equipment may be used to communicate signals e.g. UHF and or VHF signals between vessels and rig and to enable further communication with downhole data acquisition system .

It should be noted the UHF and VHF signals can be used to supplement each other. The UHF band may support a higher data rate throughput but can be susceptible to obstructions and has less range. The VHF band may be less susceptible to obstructions and may have increased radio range but its data rate throughput is lower. In the VHF communications may punch through an obstruction in the form of a production platform.

In some implementations the acoustic receivers may be coupled to surface processing equipment via a hardwired connection. In other implementations wireless or optical connections may be employed. In still other implementations combinations of coupling techniques may be employed to relay information received downhole via the acoustic receivers to an operator and or the control system described above located at least in part at the surface.

In addition to providing raw or processed data uphole to the surface the coupling system e.g. downhole processing equipment and surface processing equipment may be designed to transmit data or instructions downhole to the acoustic receivers . For example the surface processing equipment may comprise a synchronization unit which may coordinate the firing of sources e.g. dithered delayed source arrays with the acoustic receivers located in borehole . In one implementation the synchronization unit may use a coordinated universal time to ensure accurate timing. In some implementations the coordinated universal time system may be employed in cooperation with global positioning system to obtain UTC data from the GPS receivers of GPS system .

In one implementation the overall seismic system may employ various arrangements of sources on vessels and or rig with each location having at least one source and or source array to generate acoustic source signals. The acoustic receivers of downhole acquisition system may be configured to receive the source signals at least some of which are reflected off a reflection boundary located beneath a sea bottom . The acoustic receivers may generate data streams that are relayed uphole to a suitable processing system e.g. the processing system described above via downhole telemetry processing equipment .

While the acoustic receivers generate data streams the navigation system may determine a real time speed position and direction of each vessel and may estimate initial shot times accomplished via signal generators of the appropriate source arrays . The source controller may be part of surface processing equipment located on rig on vessels or at other suitable locations and may be designed to control firing of the acoustic source signals so that the timing of an additional shot time e.g. a shot time via slave vessel is based on the initial shot time e.g. a shot time via master vessel plus a dither value.

The synchronization unit of for example surface processing equipment may coordinate the firing of dithered acoustic signals with recording of acoustic signals by the downhole acquisition system . The processor system may be configured to separate a data stream of the initial shot and a data stream of the additional shot via a coherency filter. As discussed above however other implementations may employ pure simultaneous acquisition and or may not use separation of the data streams. In such implementations the dither is effectively zero.

After an initial shot time at T 0 T0 is determined subsequent firings of acoustic source arrays may be offset by a dither. The dithers can be positive or negative and sometimes are created as pre defined random delays. Use of dithers facilitates the separation of simultaneous or near simultaneous data sets to simplify the data processing. The ability to have the acoustic source arrays fire in simultaneous or near simultaneous patterns may reduce the overall amount of time for three dimensional vertical seismic profiling source acquisition. This in turn may significantly reduce rig time. As a result the overall cost of the seismic operation may be reduced rendering the data intensive process much more accessible.

If the acoustic source arrays used in the seismic data acquisition are widely separated the difference in move outs across the acoustic receiver array of the wave fields generated by the acoustic sources can be used to obtain a clean data image via processing the data without further special considerations. However even when the acoustic sources are substantially co located in time data acquired by any of the methods involving dithering of the firing times of the individual sources described herein can be processed to a formation image leaving hardly any artifacts in the final image. This is accomplished by taking advantage of the incoherence of the data generated by one acoustic source when seen in the reference time of the other acoustic source .

Attention is now directed to methods techniques and workflows for processing and or transforming collected data that are in accordance with some implementations. Some operations in the processing procedures methods techniques and workflows disclosed herein may be combined and or the order of some operations may be changed. In the geosciences and or other multi dimensional data processing disciplines various interpretations sets of assumptions and or domain models such as velocity models may be refined in an iterative fashion this concept may be applicable to the procedures methods techniques and workflows as discussed herein. This iterative refinement can include use of feedback loops executed on an algorithmic basis such as via a computing system as discussed later and or through manual control by a user who may make determinations regarding whether a given action template or model has become accurate.

Seismic streamers may be several thousand meters long and may contain various support cables as well as wiring and or circuitry that may be used to facilitate communication along the streamers . In general each streamer may include a primary cable where seismic receivers that record seismic signals may be mounted. In one implementation seismic receivers may include hydrophones that acquire pressure data. In another implementation seismic receivers may include multi component sensors such that each sensor is capable of detecting a pressure wavefield and at least one component of a particle motion that is associated with acoustic signals that are proximate to the sensor. Examples of particle motions include one or more components of a particle displacement one or more components i.e. inline x crossline y and vertical z components of a particle velocity and one or more components of a particle acceleration.

Depending on the particular survey need the multi component seismic receiver may include one or more hydrophones geophones particle displacement sensors particle velocity sensors accelerometers pressure gradient sensors or combinations thereof. In one implementation the multi component seismic receiver may be implemented as a single device or may be implemented as a plurality of devices.

Marine based seismic data acquisition system may also include one or more seismic sources such as air guns and the like. In one implementation seismic sources may be coupled to or towed by the survey vessel . In another implementation seismic sources may operate independently of the survey vessel in that the sources may be coupled to other vessels or buoys.

As seismic streamers are towed behind the survey vessel acoustic signals often referred to as shots may be produced by the seismic sources and are directed down through a water column into strata beneath a water bottom surface . Acoustic signals may be reflected from the various subterranean geological formations such as formation depicted in . The incident acoustic signals that are generated by the sources may produce corresponding reflected acoustic signals or pressure waves which may be sensed by seismic sensors of the seismic streamers .

The seismic sensors may generate signals called traces which indicate the acquired measurements of the pressure wavefield and particle motion. The traces i.e. seismic data may be recorded and may be processed by a signal processing unit or a controller deployed on the survey vessel .

The goal of the seismic acquisition may be to build up an image of a survey area for purposes of identifying subterranean geological formations such as the geological formation . Subsequent analysis of the image may reveal probable locations of hydrocarbon deposits in subterranean geological formations. In one implementation portions of the analysis of the image may be performed on the seismic survey vessel such as by the controller .

A particular seismic source may be part of an array of seismic source elements such as air guns for example that may be arranged in strings gun strings for example of the array. Regardless of the particular composition of the seismic sources the sources may be fired in a particular time sequence during the survey. Although illustrates a marine based seismic acquisition system the marine based seismic acquisition system is merely provided as an example of a seismic acquisition system that may be used with the methods described herein. It should be noted that the methods described herein may also be performed on a seabed based seismic acquisition system or a transition zone based seismic acquisition system.

In addition to the seismic sources and receivers an acoustic positioning system may be used to determine the positions of seismic acquisition equipment used in the seismic acquisition system such as the seismic streamers and the seismic receivers disposed thereon. The acoustic positioning system may include one or more acoustic positioning sources and one or more acoustic positioning receivers . In one implementation the acoustic positioning sources and the acoustic positioning receivers may be disposed along the one or more seismic streamers . In such an implementation and as described further below power and or control electronics may be incorporated into the one or more seismic streamers as well. In a further implementation the acoustic positioning system may be a stand alone system with separate power supply and communication telemetry links to the survey vessel .

In one implementation the acoustic positioning receivers may be the same as the seismic receivers described above or some subset of the seismic receivers. The acoustic positioning sources may be higher frequency acoustic sources as opposed to the seismic sources described above that may be used for performing a seismic survey operation and may be of a lower frequency. The acoustic positioning sources may include an acoustic transmitter or any other implementation known to those skilled in the art. In some implementations the acoustic positioning source and the acoustic positioning receiver may be combined into a single physical unit. In some implementations an acoustic positioning source and an acoustic positioning receiver may be combined into one transducer unit. In such an implementation the transducer unit may act as an acoustic positioning source an acoustic positioning acoustic positioning receiver or both.

The controller may be configured to control activation of the acoustic positioning sources of the acoustic positioning system. In particular and as further discussed below with respect to the operation of the acoustic positioning system the acoustic positioning sources may produce one or more acoustic positioning signals that may be recorded by the acoustic positioning receivers . In one implementation an acoustic positioning receiver may detect acoustic positioning signals from an acoustic positioning source located within the same seismic streamer as the acoustic positioning receiver . In another implementation an acoustic positioning receiver may detect acoustic positioning signals from an acoustic positioning source located within a different seismic streamer as the acoustic positioning receiver .

As also discussed below with respect to the operation of the acoustic positioning system the controller may be configured to process the acoustic positioning signals collected by the acoustic positioning receivers . In particular processing an acquired acoustic positioning signal may yield the travel time of the signal between an acoustic positioning source and an acoustic positioning receiver . In turn the travel time may be used to derive the travel distance of the acoustic positioning signal between the acoustic positioning source and the acoustic positioning receiver . This travel distance can then be used to calculate the relative positions of the acoustic positioning source and or the acoustic positioning receiver in the seismic streamer . A distance between relative positions of an acoustic positioning source and an acoustic positioning receiver may be referred to as a range.

In one implementation the controller may process the relative positions and other information to produce or update a positioning model to enable estimation of positioning of the seismic acquisition equipment e.g. position of a seismic streamer depth of a seismic streamer distances between seismic receivers etc. .

The water vehicle may be used for seismic surveying and may include one or more sensors . The sensors may be disposed on one or more streamers coupled to the water vehicle where the streamer may descend in a generally vertical direction from the water vehicle into the water column. In one implementation the streamer may descend meters below the sea surface.

The seismic sensors may be pressure sensors particle motion sensors or multi component seismic sensors. For the case of multi component seismic sensors the seismic sensors are capable of detecting a pressure wavefield and at least one component of a particle motion that is associated with acoustic signals that are proximate to the multi component seismic sensor. Examples of particle motions include one or more components of a particle displacement one or more components inline x crossline y and vertical z components of a particle velocity and one or more components of a particle acceleration.

Multi component seismic sensors may include one or more geophones hydrophones particle displacement sensors optical sensors particle velocity sensors accelerometers pressure gradient sensors or combinations thereof. For example a particular multi component seismic sensor may include three orthogonally aligned accelerometers e.g. a three component micro electro mechanical system MEMS accelerometer to measure three corresponding orthogonal components of particle velocity and or acceleration near the seismic sensor. In such implementations the MEMS based sensor may be a capacitive MEMS based sensor of the type described in commonly assigned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 268 064 which is incorporated herein by reference. In some implementations a hydrophone for measuring pressure may also be used with the three component MEMS described herein.

The multi component seismic sensor may be implemented as a single device or as a plurality of devices. A particular multi component seismic sensor may also include pressure gradient sensors which constitute another type of particle motion sensors. Each pressure gradient sensor measures the change in the pressure wavefield at a particular point with respect to a particular direction. For example one of the pressure gradient sensors may acquire seismic data indicative of at a particular point the partial derivative of the pressure wavefield with respect to the crossline direction and another one of the pressure gradient sensors may acquire at a particular point seismic data indicative of the pressure data with respect to the inline direction.

The water vehicle may be deployed to a survey area for seismic surveying. Where the water vehicle takes the form of an AOV the water vehicle may be deployed to a survey area specified on a navigation map and the water vehicle may automatically make corrections if the water vehicle veers off course. Where the water vehicle takes the form of a ROV the water vehicle may be deployed to a survey area using remote operation of the water vehicle s rudder.

After deploying the water vehicle to the survey area a seismic source may be detonated to generate acoustic waves that propagate through an ocean bottom surface and into strata beneath the ocean bottom surface. The seismic source may be located on another water vehicle as shown in or more conventional source deployments may be used such as the use of dedicated source vessels. The seismic source may be a conventional air gun marine vibrator or non traditional environmentally friendly source. The seismic source may also include drilling induced acoustic pressure waves passive seismic noise or production induced acoustic pressure waves such as those which may result from water or gas injections or combinations thereof.

The acoustic signals may be reflected from various subterranean geological formations such as formation depicted in . The incident acoustic signals produce corresponding reflected acoustic signals or pressure waves which are sensed by the seismic sensors . In one implementation the water vehicle may record seismic data from over one hundred seismic sensors.

The seismic sensors generate signals called traces which indicate the acquired measurements of the pressure wavefield and particle motion if the sensors include particle motion sensors. The traces are recorded and may be passed to a data acquisition system disposed on the water vehicle . The data acquisition system may include a digitizer a computer system and a storage system for storing seismic data acquired during the survey. The storage system may include memory such as in the form of a hard disk drive. In one implementation the seismic data may be recorded continuously over days or months at a time. In another implementation the seismic data may be recorded intermittently such as after each detonation of the seismic source .

The water vehicle may further include an onboard communication unit which may communicate with a base station located onshore or at sea such as on a rig or vessel. The communication unit may be used to transmit water vehicle position quality control parameters time information and seismic data. The communication unit may also send or receive commands particular to the seismic survey. The water vehicle may also be powered by batteries which may be recharged by solar panels disposed on the top of the water vehicle .

As noted above in conducting a seismic survey one or more types of survey equipment may be used. For example in land environments seismic sources and seismic sensors such as sources and geophone receivers of may be employed during a seismic survey. Similarly in marine environments survey equipment such as the seismic streamers of and or water vehicles of may be employed during a seismic survey. In addition one or more augmented reality AR devices may be used to facilitate the placement recovery and or monitoring of the survey equipment.

An AR device may be a device configured to present an augmented reality to a user. In particular the augmented reality presented to the user may be a view of a physical environment where elements of the physical environment may be supplemented by computer generated sensory input such as sound video graphics and or other data. Types of AR devices may include eyeglass devices tablet computers mobile phones drone camera devices helmet devices goggle devices and or any other implementations known to those skilled in the art.

In one implementation one or more AR devices may be used to present a view of a physical environment having at least a portion of a seismic survey operation disposed therein to a user. One or more survey equipment used in the seismic survey may be disposed in this physical environment and thus may also be displayed in the view. In such an implementation the view of the physical environment may be supplemented with information relating to the survey equipment in the form of computer generated graphics and or other imagery. In another implementation the physical environment viewed by the user may be located proximate to the AR device such as in front of the AR device. In yet another implementation the view of the physical environment may be supplemented with information relating to the physical environment itself.

The AR device may include a display which may be used to present the view of the physical environment including the survey equipment disposed therein and the information relating to the survey equipment. In one implementation the display may be substantially transparent. In such an implementation the user may see a live view of the physical environment by looking through the substantially transparent display. In addition the information relating to the survey equipment may be displayed on in and or through the substantially transparent display such that the information may appear to the user as a graphic and or image being superimposed on the view of the live physical environment. For example the AR device may be an eyeglass device having substantially transparent lenses where the lenses are also configured to display computer generated graphics and or imagery to a user as further explained below.

In another implementation the display of the AR device may be in the form of a monitor. In particular the monitor may show the view of the physical environment and the information relating to the survey equipment where the view and the information may be generated by the AR device. In such an implementation the view of the physical environment and the information relating to the survey equipment may be shown on the monitor in real time near real time or delayed time. For example the view of the physical environment shown on the monitor may be in the form of a video of the physical environment as taken by a camera coupled to the AR device. In another example the view of the physical environment shown on the monitor may be in the form of a virtual reality simulation of the physical environment. In such an example the virtual reality simulation may correspond to the actual physical environment surrounding the AR device and the images presented by the simulation may move in conjunction with movement of the AR device. Such an AR device may be used at night when visibility of the physical environment may be low.

As noted above the AR device may include a camera coupled thereto where the camera may be used to record video of the physical environment. In one implementation the camera may be attached directly to the AR device such that the camera may record video of the physical environment proximate to the AR device. In another implementation the camera may be located remotely from other components of the AR device and may merely be communicably coupled to said components including the display. In one such implementation the camera may record video of a physical environment located at a distance from other components of the AR device and may transmit the video to the AR device for display on a monitor of the AR device.

The AR device may also include a computing system as further described below with respect to . In particular the computing system may include one or more processing units and one or more forms of computer storage media such as a hard disk drive. The AR device may also be configured to connect with a network and or other devices using wired and or wireless connections. In one implementation the AR device may generate the view of the physical environment and or the information relating to the survey equipment based on data from its own storage media based on data received via the network and or other devices or combinations thereof.

The AR device may also include a navigation system that may utilize a global navigation satellite system GNSS such as a global positioning system GPS to record the position speed direction and other parameters of the AR device. The GNSS may operate similarly to the global positioning system as described above with respect to . In one implementation the navigation system may include a GPS unit configured to interact with the GPS. Though the applications below are described as using GPS other forms of GNSS may be used instead or in addition to the GPS.

Various configurations for an AR device as known to those skilled in the art may be used in connection with a seismic survey including but not limited to the following implementations.

In one implementation the AR device may be in the form of wearable electronics. As noted above in one such implementation the AR device may take the form of an eyeglass device having substantially transparent lenses where the lenses may also be configured to display computer generated graphics and or imagery to a user. illustrates an eyeglass device in accordance with implementations of various techniques described herein. The eyeglass device may include lenses camera computing system not pictured and an imaging unit disposed on frame . In particular the lenses may be substantially transparent such that the user wearing the frame may see a live view of the physical environment by looking through the lenses . The camera may be used to capture data about the physical environment in front of the user including the survey equipment disposed in the environment. The imaging unit may be disposed on the outside of the lenses and may display information relating to survey equipment through the lenses such that the information may appear to the user as a graphic and or image being superimposed on the view of the live physical environment.

In another implementation the AR device may include a heads up display such as on a windshield of a vehicle. In such an implementation the AR device may include a computing system and an imaging system. While a user may see a live view of the physical environment by looking through the windshield the imaging system may be configured to display the information relating to survey equipment on the windshield such that the information may appear to the user as a graphic and or image being superimposed on the view of the live physical environment.

In another implementation the AR device may be a tablet computer having a camera attached to a back panel of the tablet computer and where the tablet computer includes a monitor in the form of a touch screen. In such an implementation the touch screen may display the view of the physical environment where the view of the physical environment may be in the form of video captured by the camera. The touch screen may also display information relating to survey equipment where the information may be based on data from the tablet computer s own storage media based on data received via a network and or other devices or combinations thereof.

In yet another implementation the AR device may include a monitor located remotely from a camera as discussed above. In one such implementation the camera may be coupled to a drone device. The drone device may be configured to operate in land and or marine environments. As similarly noted above the camera coupled to the drone device may record video of a physical environment being traversed by the drone device and may transmit the video to other components of the AR device for display on its monitor. The AR device may generate and display information relating to survey equipment based on data from its own storage media based on data received via a network and or other devices or combinations thereof.

In conducting a seismic survey one or more AR devices may be used for various applications including but not limited to the following implementations.

As noted above in land environments seismic sensors may be used when conducting a seismic survey. In one implementation one or more AR devices may be used to place the seismic sensors at planned positions in a physical environment to be surveyed. In one implementation the seismic sensors may be placed in an irregular pattern in the environment based on the planned positions. Seismic sensors may include geophones and or the like as discussed above with respect to .

At block current location data for the AR device may be determined. The current location data may include a GPS location of the AR device geographic coordinates of the AR device and or the like. The GPS location may be determined using the GPS unit of the AR device. In one implementation the AR device may continuously determine its current location data.

In another implementation the current location data may be transmitted to a central computer using a wired or wireless connection. The central computer may be a computing system positioned at a location away from the AR device. In one implementation the central computer may be located in the physical environment. In such an implementation the AR device may continuously transmit its current location data to the central computer.

At block one or more first placement instructions for a first seismic sensor may be received. In one implementation the first placement instructions may include navigational instructions for reaching a planned position for the first seismic sensor. The first placement instructions may be received from the central computer which may generate the instructions based on the current location data received from the AR device. The navigational instructions may include directions for reaching the planned position efficiently such as by avoiding hazards. In another implementation the first placement instructions may include a GPS location of the planned position geographic coordinates of the planned position instructions for orientation of the first seismic sensor and or the like.

In one implementation the AR device may receive updated first placement instructions based on changes to the current location data sent to the central computer. For example if the AR device were to traverse off course then the first placement instructions may be updated to provide new navigational instructions.

At block the one or more first placement instructions may be displayed. In particular the first placement instructions may be displayed on a display of the AR device. In one implementation the user may view the physical environment in which the seismic sensors are to be placed using the display of the AR. The AR device may supplement this view with the first placement instructions which may take the form of computer generated graphics and or other imagery also displayed by the AR.

For example the display of the AR device may show turn by turn instructions for reaching the planned position superimposed on the view of the physical environment. In another example the display of the AR device may show a graphical marker superimposed on the view of the physical environment where the graphical marker may represent the location of the planned position. In such an example the size of the graphical marker displayed to the user may decrease as the AR device approaches the planned position. In yet another implementation the display of the AR device may show arrows lines and or the like for guidance to the planned position.

Upon placing the first seismic sensor at or near its planned position the AR device may transmit an updated current location data receive second placement instructions for placing a second seismic sensor at its planned position and subsequently display the second placement instructions as similarly described above. The method may be repeated for respective seismic sensors until a sufficient number have been placed at their planned positions. In another implementation upon placing the seismic sensor at or near the planned position the GPS location of the sensor may be transmitted to the seismic sensor for storage therein.

In yet another implementation the AR device itself may generate the placement instructions for the seismic sensors. In particular the AR device may receive and then store the one or more planned positions for the seismic sensors such as from the central computer. The one or more planned positions may include GPS coordinates geographic coordinates and or the like for the planned positions. Subsequently the AR device may generate the placement instructions for the sensors based on its current location data and the stored planned positions and then display the placement instructions.

In one implementation in land environments one or more AR devices may be used to retrieve one or more seismic sensors disposed in a physical environment containing at least a part of a seismic survey. In such an implementation the seismic sensors may be retrieved due to malfunction replacement repairs routine inspection and or the like. In a further implementation the seismic sensors may be substantially covered or may be obstructed from view by conditions of the physical environment. For example over time the seismic sensors may become covered over by sand snow vegetation and or the like. Seismic sensors may include geophones and or the like as discussed above with respect to .

At block current location data for the AR device may be determined. The current location data may include a GPS location of the AR device geographic coordinates of the AR device and or the like. The GPS location may be determined using the GPS unit of the AR device. In one implementation the AR device may continuously determine its current location data.

At block position data for one or more seismic sensors may be received. In one implementation the position data may include one or more GPS locations of the seismic sensors one or more geographic coordinates of the seismic sensors and or the like.

In one implementation the AR device may receive position data directly from each seismic sensor. In such an implementation each seismic sensor in the physical environment may continuously broadcast its position data using a wireless connection such as via Wi Fi technology cellular technology Bluetooth technology satellite technology radio frequency RF technology or any other implementation known to those skilled in the art. The AR device may detect the broadcasts within a specified wireless range of the AR device. In one implementation the AR device may then establish wireless connections with one or more of the detected sensors based on certain criteria. Such criteria may include those detected seismic sensors being within the view of the physical environment displayed by the AR device and or having the strongest wireless connection. Upon establishing the wireless connections with one or more of the detected sensors the AR device may then receive the position data for the one or more of the detected sensors.

In another implementation the AR device may receive the position data for one or more seismic sensors from the central computer. In yet another implementation the AR device may retrieve the position data for one or more seismic sensors from the storage media of the AR device.

At block one or more retrieval data for the one or more seismic sensors may be generated. The retrieval data may include distances to each of the seismic sensors navigational instructions to each of the seismic sensors and or the like. The retrieval data may be generated based on the position data of the seismic sensors and the current location data for the AR device.

At block the one or more retrieval data may be displayed. In particular the retrieval data may be displayed on the display of the AR device. In one implementation the user may view the physical environment containing the one or more seismic sensors using the display of the AR. The AR device may supplement this view with the retrieval data which may take the form of computer generated graphics and or other imagery also displayed by the AR. Such displayed retrieval data may assist a user with retrieving the seismic sensors from the physical environment.

For example the display of the AR device may show turn by turn instructions for reaching a seismic sensor superimposed on the view of the physical environment. In another example the display of the AR device may show one or more graphical markers superimposed on the view of the physical environment where the graphical markers may represent the locations of the one or more seismic sensors.

In one implementation the method may be repeated for remaining seismic sensors until a sufficient number have been retrieved. In another implementation the method may be similarly used to retrieve seismic sources disposed in the physical environment.

In one implementation in land environments the AR device may be used to determine status data of one or more seismic sensors disposed in a physical environment containing at least a part of a seismic survey. In such an implementation the status data of the one or more sensors may include diagnostics health status repairs needed power status data on repairs and or maintenance to be performed repair and or maintenance instructions distress codes orientation data and or the like. Seismic sensors may include geophones and or the like as discussed above with respect to .

At block the AR device may display a view of the physical environment having one or more seismic sensors disposed therein. In one implementation the AR device may supplement this view with the retrieval data for each of the seismic sensors as discussed above with respect to .

At block the AR device may receive status data for the one or more seismic sensors. In one implementation each seismic sensor may continuously broadcast its status data using a wireless connection such as via Wi Fi technology cellular technology Bluetooth technology satellite technology RF technology or any other implementation known to those skilled in the art. The AR device may detect the broadcasts within a specified wireless range of the AR device. In one implementation the AR device may then establish a wireless connection with one or more particular seismic sensors of the detected sensors based on certain criteria. Such criteria may include the seismic sensor being within the view of the physical environment displayed by the AR device. Upon establishing the wireless connection the AR device may receive the status data from each wirelessly connected seismic sensor. In yet another implementation the AR device may receive the status data from the central computer.

At block the AR device may display the received status data. In one implementation the AR device may supplement the view of the physical environment with the received status data which may take the form of computer generated graphics and or other imagery also displayed by the AR. In one implementation the received status data could be used for troubleshooting the one or more seismic sensors disposed in the physical environment.

In one implementation in land environments survey equipment such as one or more seismic trucks may be used when conducting a seismic survey. In particular the seismic trucks may contain one or more seismic sources such as vibrators. The seismic sources may produce sound vibrations similar to the sources of . In such an implementation each seismic truck may operate at one or more planned positions in a physical environment to be surveyed. Accordingly one or more AR devices may be used to place each seismic truck at its planned positions.

At block current location data for the AR device may be determined. The current location data may include a GPS location of the AR device geographic coordinates of the AR device and or the like. The GPS location may be determined using the GPS unit of the AR device. In one implementation the AR device may continuously determine its current location data.

In another implementation the current location data may be transmitted to a central computer using a wired or wireless connection. In such an implementation the AR device may continuously transmit its current location data to the central computer.

At block one or more first placement instructions for the seismic truck may be received. In one implementation the first placement instructions may include navigational instructions for reaching a first planned position for the seismic truck. The first placement instructions may be received from the central computer which may generate the instructions based on the current location data received from the AR device. The navigational instructions may include directions for reaching the first planned position efficiently such as by avoiding hazards.

In another implementation the first placement instructions may include a GPS location of the first planned position geographic coordinates of the first planned position and or the like. In another implementation the AR device may receive updated first placement instructions based on changes to the current location data sent to the central computer. For example if the AR device were to traverse off course then the first placement instructions may be updated to provide new navigational instructions.

At block the one or more first placement instructions may be displayed. In particular the first placement instructions may be displayed on a display of the AR device. In one implementation the user may view the physical environment in which the seismic sensors are to be placed using the display of the AR. The AR device may supplement this view with the first placement instructions which may take the form of computer generated graphics and or other imagery also displayed by the AR.

For example the display of the AR device may show turn by turn instructions for reaching the planned position superimposed on the view of the physical environment. In another example the display of the AR device may show a graphical marker superimposed on the view of the physical environment where the graphical marker may represent the location of the planned position.

Upon placing the seismic truck at or near its first planned position one or more seismic sources in the seismic truck may be activated. Upon completion of the activation the AR device may transmit an updated current location data receive second placement instructions for placing the truck at its second planned position and subsequently display the second placement instructions as similarly described above. The method may be repeated for respective planned positions until a sufficient number have been reached by the truck.

In one implementation in marine environments survey equipment such as one or more seismic streamers may be used when conducting a seismic survey as described above with respect to . In particular a survey vessel may tow one or more seismic streamers behind the vessel. In towing the streamers conditions of the streamers vessel and water may lead to tangling and disorientation of the streamer shape. Accordingly one or more AR devices may be used to determine a status of the one or more seismic streamers disposed in a physical environment having at least a part of a seismic survey operation.

At block the AR device may display a view of the physical environment having one or more seismic streamers disposed therein. In particular the AR device may be positioned to display a rear of the vessel towing the seismic streamers.

At block the AR device may receive status data for the one or more seismic streamers. The status data may include the estimated positions of the streamers in the water. In particular the status data may include data on the depth separation placement and or the like of the seismic streamers. The status data may be received from a central computer disposed on board the vessel.

In particular the central computer may generate the status data based on estimated values for position lift drag and or the like of the seismic streamers. In one implementation these estimated values may be derived using the acoustic position system as described with respect to . In particular acoustic positioning sources and receivers may be used to calculate the relative positions of the acoustic positioning sources and or the acoustic positioning receivers in the seismic streamers. In turn these calculated positions may be used to develop a positioning model to enable estimation of positioning of the seismic streamers including location depth and or the like.

At block the AR device may display the received status data. In one implementation the AR device may supplement the view of the physical environment with the received status data which may take the form of computer generated graphics and or other imagery also displayed by the AR. In one implementation the received status data could be used for troubleshooting the one or more seismic sensors disposed in the physical environment.

In another implementation one or more AR devices may be similarly used to determine a status of the one or more seismic nodes disposed in a physical environment having at least a part of a seismic survey operation. In one implementation a seismic node may include seismic sensors freely disposed on the surface of the water and or along a sea bottom.

In such an implementation the AR device aboard the vessel may receive status data for the one or more seismic nodes. The status data may include the estimated positions of the nodes in the water. In particular the status data may include data on the depth separation placement and or the like of the seismic nodes. The status data may be received from a central computer disposed on board the vessel. As similarly discussed above with respect to the AR device may display the received status data. In one implementation the AR device may supplement the view of the physical environment with the received status data which may take the form of computer generated graphics and or other imagery also displayed by the AR.

In one implementation in marine environments survey equipment such as one or more water vehicles may be used when conducting a seismic survey as described above with respect to . In particular the water vehicles may be used for seismic surveying and may include one or more sensors.

As similarly described above with respect to seismic sensors in land environments one or more AR devices may be used to place the water vehicles at planned positions in a physical environment to be surveyed to retrieve the one or more water vehicles disposed in the physical environment and or determine a status of the one or more water vehicles disposed in the physical environment.

Implementations of various technologies described herein may be operational with numerous general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the various technologies described herein include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers smartphones smartwatches personal wearable computing systems networked with other computing systems tablet computers and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The various technologies described herein may be implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that performs particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. While program modules may execute on a single computing system it should be appreciated that in some implementations program modules may be implemented on separate computing systems or devices adapted to communicate with one another. A program module may also be some combination of hardware and software where particular tasks performed by the program module may be done either through hardware software or both.

The various technologies described herein may also be implemented in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network e.g. by hardwired links wireless links or combinations thereof. The distributed computing environments may span multiple continents and multiple vessels ships or boats. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The computing system may include a central processing unit CPU a system memory a graphics processing unit GPU and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the CPU . Although one CPU is illustrated in it should be understood that in some implementations the computing system may include more than one CPU. The GPU may be a microprocessor specifically designed to manipulate and implement computer graphics. The CPU may offload work to the GPU . The GPU may have its own graphics memory and or may have access to a portion of the system memory . As with the CPU the GPU may include one or more processing units and the processing units may include one or more cores. The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus. The system memory may include a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help transfer information between elements within the computing system such as during start up may be stored in the ROM .

The computing system may further include a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The hard disk drive the magnetic disk drive and the optical disk drive may be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The drives and their associated computer readable media may provide nonvolatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing system .

Although the computing system is described herein as having a hard disk a removable magnetic disk and a removable optical disk it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the computing system may also include other types of computer readable media that may be accessed by a computer. For example such computer readable media may include computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media may include volatile and non volatile and removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media may further include RAM ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing system . Communication media may embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may mean a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. The computing system may also include a host adapter that connects to a storage device via a small computer system interface SCSI bus a Fiber Channel bus an eSATA bus or using any other applicable computer bus interface. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk magnetic disk optical disk ROM or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs program data and a database system . The application programs may include various mobile applications apps and other applications configured to perform various methods and techniques described herein. The operating system may be any suitable operating system that may control the operation of a networked personal or server computer such as Windows XP Mac OS X Unix variants e.g. Linux and BSD and the like.

A user may enter commands and information into the computing system through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device . Other input devices may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices may be connected to the CPU through a serial port interface coupled to system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device may also be connected to system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor the computing system may further include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printers.

Further the computing system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers . The logical connections may be any connection that is commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet such as local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . The remote computers may be another a computer a server computer a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and may include many of the elements describes above relative to the computing system . The remote computers may also each include application programs similar to that of the computer action function.

When using a LAN networking environment the computing system may be connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing system may include a router wireless router or other means for establishing communication over a wide area network such as the Internet. The router which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing system or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are merely examples and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

The network interface may also utilize remote access technologies e.g. Remote Access Service RAS Virtual Private Networking VPN Secure Socket Layer SSL Layer 2 Tunneling L2T or any other suitable protocol . These remote access technologies may be implemented in connection with the remote computers .

It should be understood that the various technologies described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware software or a combination of both. Thus various technologies or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various technologies. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various technologies described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations. Also the program code may execute entirely on a user s computing device on the user s computing device as a stand alone software package on the user s computer and on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or a server computer.

The computing system may be located at a data center remote from the survey region. The computing system may be in communication with the receivers either directly or via a recording unit not shown to receive signals indicative of the reflected seismic energy. These signals after conventional formatting and other initial processing may be stored by the computing system as digital data in the disk storage for subsequent retrieval and processing in the manner described above. In one implementation these signals and data may be sent to the computing system directly from sensors such as geophones hydrophones and the like. When receiving data directly from the sensors the computing system may be described as part of an in field data processing system. In another implementation the computing system may process seismic data already stored in the disk storage. When processing data stored in the disk storage the computing system may be described as part of a remote data processing center separate from data acquisition. The computing system may be configured to process data as part of the in field data processing system the remote data processing system or a combination thereof.

Those with skill in the art will appreciate that any of the listed architectures features or standards discussed above with respect to the example computing system may be omitted for use with a computing system used in accordance with the various embodiments disclosed herein because technology and standards continue to evolve over time.

Of course many processing techniques for collected data including one or more of the techniques and methods disclosed herein may also be used successfully with collected data types other than seismic data. While certain implementations have been disclosed in the context of seismic data collection and processing those with skill in the art will recognize that one or more of the methods techniques and computing systems disclosed herein can be applied in many fields and contexts where data involving structures arrayed in a three dimensional space and or subsurface region of interest may be collected and processed e.g. medical imaging techniques such as tomography ultrasound MRI and the like for human tissue radar sonar and LIDAR imaging techniques and other appropriate three dimensional imaging problems.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific implementations. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the above described implementations to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The implementations were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the above described implementations and their practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to utilize the above described implementations with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

