---

title: Wireless set-top box pairing and quality of service user interface
abstract: A method and system for monitoring the quality of the content is provided. The method and system may identify, in real time, whether the quality of the content has fallen below a predetermined threshold. Once the quality of the content has fallen below a predetermined threshold, the system may identify other delivery mechanisms (e.g., connectivity options and/or other sources) to deliver the content at a lower constant bitrate. Subsequently, the system may check for higher quality content and provide the user with options to switch to the other source. Accordingly, the method and system identifies the available video quality options for a specific content item, which may be provided by a plurality of different content sources, and provides the user with the ability to switch to another content source with minimal user input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09491504&OS=09491504&RS=09491504
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 09491504
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140402
---
Video consumers today are provided with some options for viewing content in a variety of video formats e.g. standard definition quality high definition quality etc. Customers of cable multiple systems operators MSOs telephone companies telcos and satellite video providers may typically be provided with hundreds of channels of linear content and thousands of pre recorded on demand movies and television shows with different qualities and bitrates from which to watch. Further users have several connectivity options and viewing devices that may be used to access the content. For example customers may access content from a wireless router set top box connected to a wired set top box or digital video recorder DVRs . With the options available the quality of the content provided may significantly vary because of bitrates connectivity network traffic or the determination of a format option for the viewer.

To further personalize the user experience if a choice may be given with a better viewing option with higher constant bitrate when available it may take the user experience to a new level.

Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized to monitor the quality of the content. For example in one embodiment the system identifies in real time whether the quality of the content has fallen below a predetermined threshold. Once the quality of the content has fallen below a predetermined threshold the system may identify other delivery mechanisms e.g. connectivity options and or other sources to deliver the content at a lower constant bitrate. It should also be noted that by utilizing different connectivity options such as other wired set top boxes available for pairing and other sources such as DVR VOD and the Internet the system may provide other enhanced video quality options.

At a subsequent time the system may also check for higher quality content in real time or at regular intervals such as checking for the original quality content from the original source. Once higher quality content has been identified the system may provide the user with options to switch to the other source. Upon receiving a selection from the user the system switches to the other content source having higher quality content.

Accordingly a user may appreciate that the system identifies the available video quality options for a specific content item which may be provided by a plurality of different content sources and provides the user with the ability to switch to another content source with minimal user input.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention.

As briefly described above embodiments of the present invention may be utilized to monitor quality of the content item being provided on the viewing device in real time or at regular intervals based on business rules and business agreements. For example in one embodiment the system identifies in real time whether the quality of the content has fallen below a predetermined threshold. Once the quality of the content has fallen below a predetermined threshold the system may identify other delivery mechanisms e.g. connectivity options and or other sources to deliver the content at a lower constant bitrate. Different connectivity options may provide the content item at an acceptable higher constant bitrate or a lower constant bitrate. Other sources such as DVR VOD and the Internet may also provide enhanced video quality options. At a subsequent time the system may also check for higher quality content in real time or at regular intervals such as checking for the original quality content from the original source. Once higher quality content has been identified the system may provide the user with options to switch to the other source. Upon receiving a selection from the user the system switches to the other content source having higher quality content. In case of nonlinear content bookmarks and timestamps may also be managed to switch seamlessly.

For example a user may be viewing high definition HD content with a viewing device wirelessly in connection with a wired set top box. The system may be continually monitoring the quality of the content item being delivered. Once the system identifies that the content item cannot be provided with HD quality such as a result of a network connection the system looks for other possible connectivity options such as another wired set top box that may be available for the viewing device to connect in a wireless fashion. If the system identifies that content item can be provided in HD quality through the other connectivity option then it may use that connection and provide HD quality content to the user s viewing device. This function of the system may be performed without any user input and with minimal disruption to the video output. In another embodiment the system may provide a user interface via the client application to notify the user and receive user input on whether to switch the connectivity option for maintaining video quality.

Alternatively if the content item cannot be provided in HD quality through other connectivity options then the system may be operable to search for a lower constant bitrate item e.g. a standard definition SD content item and provide it to the user s viewing device. As mentioned earlier other sources such as DVR VOD and the Internet may also provide enhanced video quality options. According to an embodiment the system may provide the content item at a lower constant bitrate for a very short duration until the system can provide the content item at a higher constant bitrate or from the original source.

An approach utilized by embodiments of the present invention provides a system that identifies the available video quality options for a specific content item which may be provided by a plurality of different content sources and provides the user with the ability to switch to another content source with minimal user input.

These embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several figures embodiments of the present invention and an exemplary operating environment will be described.

Pairing server may comprise data and metadata related to the content quality of the content e.g. megapixels constant bitrates higher quality compression due to dedicated chip etc. various devices that may be provisioned for the household account with a wired connection or wirelessly etc. According to embodiments the pairing server may also include data and metadata about the resources available that enable the system to apply mechanisms independent of the signal strength to improve the content delivery to the viewing device.

Network DVR platform may comprise various DVR recordings or pointers to various DVR recordings recorded on a network DVR that may be available for viewing to the user. DVR recordings may also be stored locally via a local DVR subsystem connected to a set top box in communication with a television set .

VOD server may provide access to various VOD content items stored either within the VOD library maintained by the content provider or the VOD content that may be available via the Internet. VOD server network DVR platform pairing server and content server may be provided to a server where a data mining engine may be operable to analyze the data and metadata from the pairing server in relation to the user subscription data to provide the method for providing wireless set top box pairing and quality of service user interface.

The associated channel guide content contacts data may be cached. The cache is illustrated in as a remote element but may be integrated with the server or the client application . As new information becomes available the associated channel guide content contacts data may be updated in the cache .

The system may include a data services system which may comprise such information as billing data permissions and authorization data user profile data etc. and its data may be stored in a user database . The data services system may be accessed by the data mining engine for checking permissions subscriptions and profile data.

As illustrated in various endpoint devices may be paired to provide the best possible content quality for display on the viewing device. For example endpoint devices may include but are not limited to a mobile communication device such as a mobile phone a computing device such as a desktop computer a laptop computer etc. a wireless computing device such as a tablet computing device a television set such as an Internet connected television or a television connected to a network connected device such as a wired set top box STB or a wireless set top box . An endpoint device may be utilized to access a client application . According to embodiments wireless set top box may be able to connect wirelessly to one or more wired set top boxes within a same household account.

The client application may be operable to receive information regarding the content content quality data and metadata and provide it to the server wherein the data mining engine may be operable to analyze the information received from the client application in relation with data regarding devices capable of pairing from the pairing server etc. The client application may be able to continually check if the quality of the content being delivered meets the predetermined threshold set based on business agreements and business rules. Once the client application identifies that the content quality may have fallen below the predetermined threshold perform various checks in order to identify and provide the content item with a lower constant bitrate using other connectivity options and or from other sources.

As can be appreciated while the lower constant bitrate content is being provided for display on the viewing device the client application may be operable to continually check if either through an improved network connection or through other mechanisms deployed by the system the content item may be provided at a higher constant bitrate for display on the viewing device from the original source. Once it may be identified if the content item may be made available for display on the viewing device the client application may be operable to provide with user interfaces as illustrated in for the user to selectively indicate if he she wishes to switch to the higher constant bitrate content delivery.

A designated button or other selectable control on a remote control or other suitable hard or soft key selection device may also be used to accept input for switching to the higher constant bitrate content. A secondary screen companion device such as a tablet or other hand held computing device with an associated content provision application may also be used to accept input for switching to the higher constant bitrate content. Other suitable means for switching to the higher constant bitrate content may include touch command voice command gesture command and combinations of various functionality interface methods and systems.

The associated channel guide content data may be stored in a cache located on the server on the application or may be located remotely and accessed via a network.

Once the user switches to view the content from another source the system may monitor in real time if the original quality content item from the original source may be available. Once the original quality content from the original source becomes available the system may provide the user with a user interface as illustrated in .

If at OPERATION a determination is made that the content item is being delivered at a higher constant bitrate at an acceptable signal strength then the method proceeds to OPERATION where the content item may continue to be provided. As can be appreciated while the content item is being delivered at the acceptable higher constant bitrate at OPERATION the method may still be continually checking for the output quality. If at OPERATION a determination is made that the higher constant bitrate content item is not being delivered at acceptable signal strength then the method proceeds to DECISION OPERATION where a check may be performed to determine whether the content item may be available at a lower constant bitrate via another channel.

If a determination is made at DECISION OPERATION that the content item is not available at a lower constant bitrate via another channel then the method proceeds to another DECISION OPERATION where a check may be performed if there are any other wired devices available to establish a wireless connection which may enable providing the content item at acceptable higher constant bitrate.

If a determination is made at DECISION OPERATION that the content item is available at a lower constant bitrate via another channel then be method proceeds to OPERATION where the lower constant bitrate content item may be provided on the viewing device and then to DECISION OPERATION where a check may be performed if there are any other wired devices available to establish a wireless connection which may enable providing the content item at acceptable higher constant bitrate.

As can be appreciated the OPERATION may be performed to provide the most seamless viewing experience as possible because the user may be provided with the best available viewing experience even for a relatively short amount of time it may take for the system to perform DECISION OPERATION .

If at DECISION OPERATION it is determined that there is another wired set top box s available for establishing an alternate wireless connection and the content item can be made available to the viewing device at a higher constant bitrate through the alternate wired set top box that may be available the method proceeds to OPERATION . At OPERATION the content item may be made available to the viewing device at a higher constant bitrate with acceptable quality through the alternate wired set top box and ends at OPERATION .

If at DECISION OPERATION it is determined that the content item cannot be made available to the viewing device at a higher constant bitrate the method proceeds to DECISION OPERATION . For example in one embodiment there may not be other wired set top boxes available for establishing an alternate wireless connection. In another embodiment if another wired set top box is available the content item may not be available to the viewing device at a higher constant bitrate due to connectivity or other issues.

At DECISION OPERATION the system checks for other sources such as the DVR VOD or the Internet etc. where the content item may be available at a higher or a lower constant bitrate.

If at DECISION OPERATION it may be determined that the content is available through other sources at a higher or a lower constant bitrate the method proceeds to OPERATION where the content item may be provided via the other identified source at a higher or a lower constant bitrate. The method may then proceed to OPERATION .

If at DECISION OPERATION it may be determined that the content is not available through other sources the method proceeds to OPERATION where the content item may continue to be delivered and the method may proceed to OPERATION .

At OPERATION a check may continually be performed in real time to determine if the content item may become available at the acceptable higher constant bitrate from the original source. As can be appreciated at OPERATION the system may not merely check for signal strength available for providing the content item the system may also have a plurality of mechanisms deployed in order to provide the content item at a higher constant bitrate.

According to an embodiment steps involved from OPERATION through OPERATION may be performed to handle the time it may take for the system to achieve the ability to provide the content at an acceptable higher constant bitrate through the plurality of mechanisms as mentioned above in order to provide the viewer with seamless experience.

The method then proceeds to DECISION OPERATION where the system identifies if the content item is available at the higher constant bitrate from the original source. If at DECISION OPERATION it may be determined that the content item is not available at the higher constant bitrate from the original source the method may continue to provide the content item at OPERATION and revert back to OPERATION . Alternatively if at DECISION OPERATION it may be determined that the content item is available at the higher constant bitrate from the original source the method proceeds to DECISION OPERATION where a check may be performed if the content item is a linear content item.

If at DECISION OPERATION it is determined that the content item is a linear content item then the method proceeds to OPERATION where the system tunes the viewing device to provide the content item from the original source at the higher constant bitrate and ends at OPERATION . Whereas if at DECISION OPERATION it is determined that the content item is a nonlinear content item then the method proceeds to OPERATION where the bookmarks timestamps etc. may be identified from the current playback. At OPERATION the content item is provided at a higher constant bitrate from the original source based on the bookmarks timestamps etc. The method ends at OPERATION .

Computing devices may be implemented in different ways in different embodiments. For instance in the example of the computing device includes a processing system memory a network interface a secondary storage device an input device a video interface and a display unit . In other embodiments the computing device may be implemented using more or fewer hardware components e.g. a video interface a display unit or an input device or in combination with other types of computer systems and program modules. The memory includes one or more computer readable storage media capable of storing data and or computer executable instructions. Memory thus may store the computer executable instructions that when executed by processing system provide creation of one or more channel s or guide with trending content items from the user s associated social network s as described above with reference to .

In various embodiments the memory is implemented in various ways. For example the memory can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media. Example types of computer readable storage media include solid state memory flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM DDR2 SDRAM DDR3 SDRAM read only memory ROM reduced latency DRAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM and other articles of manufacture that store data.

According to embodiments the term computer readable media includes communication media. Communication media includes information delivery media via a data signal or modulated carrier wave. Computer executable instructions data structures program modules may be embodied on a communications medium. For example communication media can include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

The term computer readable storage medium refers only to devices and articles of manufacture that store data and or computer executable instructions readable by a computing device. Computer readable storage medium do not include communications media. The term computer readable storage media encompasses volatile and nonvolatile and removable and non removable media implemented in various methods or technologies for storage and retrieval of information. Such information can include data structures program modules computer executable instructions or other data.

The processing system includes one or more processing units which may include tangible integrated circuits that selectively execute computer executable instructions. In various embodiments the processing units in the processing system are implemented in various ways. For example the processing units in the processing system can be implemented as one or more processing cores. In this example the processing system can comprise one or more Intel Core microprocessors. In another example the processing system can comprise one or more separate microprocessors. In yet another example embodiment the processing system can comprise Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs that provide specific functionality. In yet another example the processing system provides specific functionality by using an ASIC and by executing computer executable instructions.

The computing device may be enabled to send data to and receive data from a communication network via a network interface . In different embodiments the network interface is implemented in different ways such as an Ethernet interface a token ring network interface a fiber optic network interface a wireless network interface e.g. Wi Fi Wi Max etc. or another type of network interface. The network interface may allow the device to communicate with other devices such as over a wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute communication applications storage servers and comparable devices.

The secondary storage device includes one or more computer readable storage media and may store data and computer executable instructions not directly accessible by the processing system . That is the processing system performs an I O operation to retrieve data and or computer executable instructions from the secondary storage device . In various embodiments the secondary storage device can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media such as by one or more magnetic disks magnetic tape drives CD ROM discs DVD ROM discs BLU RAY discs solid state memory devices and or other types of computer readable storage media.

The input device enables the computing device to receive input from a user. Example types of input devices include but are not limited to keyboards mice trackballs stylus input devices key pads microphones joysticks touch sensitive display screens and other types of devices that provide user input to the computing device .

The video interface outputs video information to the display unit . In different embodiments the video interface is implemented in different ways. For example the video interface is a video expansion card. In another example the video interface is integrated into a motherboard of the computing device . In various embodiments the display unit can be a an LCD display panel a touch sensitive display panel an LED screen a projector a cathode ray tube display or another type of display unit. In various embodiments the video interface communicates with the display unit in various ways. For example the video interface can communicate with the display unit via a Universal Serial Bus USB connector a VGA connector a digital visual interface DVI connector an S Video connector a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI interface a DisplayPort connector or another type of connection.

The communications medium facilitates communication among the hardware components of the computing device . In different embodiments the communications medium facilitates communication among different components of the computing device . For instance in the example of the communications medium facilitates communication among the memory the processing system the network interface the secondary storage device the input device and the video interface . In different embodiments the communications medium is implemented in different ways such as a PCI bus a PCI Express bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus an Infiniband interconnect a serial Advanced Technology Attachment ATA interconnect a parallel ATA interconnect a Fiber Channel interconnect a USB bus a Small Computing system Interface SCSI interface or another type of communications medium.

The memory stores various types of data and or software instructions. For instance in the example of the memory stores a Basic Input Output System BIOS and an operating system . The BIOS includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to boot up. The operating system includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide an operating system that coordinates the activities and sharing of resources of the computing device . The memory also stores one or more application programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide applications to users. The memory also stores one or more utility programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide utilities to other software programs. Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment.

Data input to the mobile computing device may be performed via a variety of suitable means such as touch screen input via the display screen keyboard or keypad input via a data entry area key input via one or more selectable buttons or controls voice input via a microphone disposed on the mobile computing device photographic input via a camera functionality associated with the mobile computing device or any other suitable input means. Data may be output via the mobile computing device via any suitable output means including but not limited to display on the display screen audible output via an associated speaker or connected earphone system vibration module for providing tactile output and the like.

Referring now to operational unit is illustrative of internal operating functionality of the mobile computing device . A processor is illustrative of a general purpose computer processor for processing incoming and outgoing data and communications and controlling operation of the device and associated software applications via a mobile computing device operating system. Memory may be utilized for storing a device operating system device programming one or more stored applications for example mobile telephone applications data processing applications calculators games Internet browsing applications navigation applications acceleration applications camera and or video applications etc. According to one embodiment application software to analyze wireless set top box pairing and quality of service user interface may be stored locally on mobile computing device .

Mobile computing device may contain an accelerometer for detecting acceleration and can be used to sense orientation vibration and or shock. Mobile computing device may contain a global positioning system GPS system e.g. GPS send receive functionality . A GPS system uses radio waves to communicate with satellites orbiting the Earth. Some GPS enabled mobile computing devices use wireless assisted GPS to determine a user s location where the device uses orbiting GPS satellites in conjunction with information about the device s mobile phone signal. Radio functions include all required functionality including onboard antennae for allowing the mobile computing device to communicate with other communication devices and systems via a wireless network. Radio functions may be utilized to communicate with a wireless or Wi Fi based positioning system to determine a location of a device .

The CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB in communication with a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device keyboard or other computing device such as a tablet slate computer mobile computing device etc. The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television set the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television set at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces APIs that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . The middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB may format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

According to one embodiment the set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television set via a one way communication transport . According to other embodiments two way communication transports may be utilized for example via high definition multimedia HDMI ports. The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a relative high frequency e.g. between 54 and 400 megahertz. The signaling space is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted as a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. ten of digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range is generally at a lower frequency than in band signaling. For example the out of band frequency range may be between zero and 54 megahertz. Data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via television sets . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example content metadata of a third party content provider service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded content metadata the middleware layer may be utilized to format the content metadata for receipt and use by the set top box . Therefore content metadata may be sent and categorized based on the availability to the customer s program guide data.

According to one embodiment data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box .

According to embodiments the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

Referring still to web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . According to embodiments when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

An authentication system may include information such as secure user names subscriber profiles subscriber IDs and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate systems may be integrated or provided in any combination of separate systems wherein shows only one example.

Embodiments of the invention may be used in combination with any number of computer systems such as in desktop environments laptop or notebook computer systems multiprocessor systems micro processor based or programmable consumer electronics networked PCs mini computers main frame computers mobile communication device systems and the like. Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment and where programs may be located in both local and remote memory storage.

Embodiments for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart or described herein with reference to . For example two processes shown or described in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data may also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable storage media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks a CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed processes may be modified in any manner including by reordering and or inserting or deleting a step or process without departing from the embodiments.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not with this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

