---

title: Method for repairing or replacing damaged tissue
abstract: A method for repairing or replacing damaged tissue, or for providing post-surgical augmentation, comprising administering a pliable biocompatible material and a physiologically acceptable suspending agent to a patient is disclosed. Copolymers of unsubstituted acrylate and substituted acrylate are disclosed as pliable biocompatible materials.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09295691&OS=09295691&RS=09295691
owner: 
number: 09295691
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140307
---
This application is a divisional patent application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 336 340 filed Dec. 23 2011 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 741 280 filed Sep. 7 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 475 815 which is a national phase application of International Patent Application No. PCT US2008 81608 filed Oct. 29 2008 Ser. No. 12 741 280 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 926 930 filed Oct. 10 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 910 134 the disclosures of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to compositions comprising a pliable biocompatible material and a physiological acceptable substance for use in repairing or replacing damaged tissue and or post operatively augmenting tissue and uses thereof and methods of manufacture. This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 741 280 filed Sep. 7 2010 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 926 930 filed Oct. 29 2007.

The soft tissues of our bodies connect support and surround other structures and organs and include connective tissue such as skin tendons ligaments fibrous tissue fascia fat and synovial membranes and non connective tissue such as muscles nerves and blood vessels. Over the course of a person s lifetime their soft tissues may suffer damage as the result of injury disease nutritional deficiencies toxins pollutants and other environmental factors surgical intervention or simply from wear and tear. Tissue damage can result from many causes including natural and man made. A few examples of the common causes of significant tissue damage include traumatic injuries including lacerations contusions abrasions penetrations blunt injury or combinations of the foregoing surgical incisions such as internal and epidermal surgical incisions implantation of devices such as prosthetics and other medical devices and a variety of other injuries and illnesses.

Injuries to the soft tissue may effect virtually any area of anatomy. For instance injuries to the soft tissues of the face are particularly conspicuous and include eyelid injuries ear injuries nasal injuries scalp injuries and lip injuries. Facial and other soft tissue injuries may occur as the result of a wide variety of incidents including motor vehicle accidents domestic violence sports animal bites self inflicted wounds and on the job accidents. Injuries to the soft tissue of other areas of the body though not as conspicuous as those to the face can cause functional impairment ranging from minor to severe. Tissue damage may result from a variety of surgical techniques including plastic reconstructive and cosmetic surgery.

Soft tissue damage in human and other mammalian tissue leads to tissue disruption and the coagulation of vasculature at the site of the wound. Our bodies generally react to such tissue damage with a natural cellular response to repair the tissue damage. Soft tissue damage heals in a similar manner regardless of the extent of the damage. Tissue growth and repair involve processes of cellular proliferation and angiogenesis that occurs in the presence of an oxygen gradient. Some of the morphological changes that occur during tissue repair have been characterized. See Hunt T. K. et al. Coagulation and macrophage stimulation of angiogenesis and wound healing pp. 1 18 Lea Febiger Philadelphia 1981 . Tissue regeneration in various organs such as for example the skin or the heart relies upon restoring blood supply to the tissue and allowing cells for example keratinocytes or muscle cells to facilitate organ vitality. One function of mesenchymal cells such as the fibroblasts or endothelial cells of the vasculature is secretion of factors enhancing the healing process such as factors promoting angiogenesis blood vessel growth or re epithelialization.

Skin wounds that do not readily heal can cause the subject considerable physical emotional and social distress as well as great financial expense. See e.g. Richey et al. 23 2 159 65 1989 . Wounds that fail to heal properly may require aggressive surgical intervention such as autologous skin grafting. Even where a wound heals the anatomy may suffer asthetically or functionally.

Various materials have been proposed for repairing or replacing damaged tissue. For instance various biomedical applications of collagen including its use in tissue engineering as a skin replacement bone substitute or as artificial blood vessels and valves are described by Lee et al. Biomedical applications of collagen 221 2001 1 22. The potential use of a polymer material as a patch for rotator cuff repairs is described by Cole et al. Biocompatibility of a polymer patch for rotator cuff repair May 10 2006.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 922 025 discusses examples of biocompatible materials that have been proposed for use in augmenting soft tissue in the practice of plastic and reconstructive surgery including collagen gelatin beads beads of natural or synthetic polymers such as polytetrafluoroethylene silicone rubber and various hydrogel polymers such as polyacrylonitrile polyacrylamide hydrogels.

Similarly according to U.S. Pat. No. 4 595 713 a large number of tissue augmentation compositions are proposed that comprise soft or moldable polymeric materials which are designed to occupy the space where tissue regeneration is desired and eventually be replaced by the hard or soft regenerated tissue such as cartilage or bone. Among the references directed to such invention are U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 424 208 and 4 347 234. The latter in particular describes a collagen based shaped mass which may include osteogenic material such as tricalcium phosphate. The implant material of both U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 424 208 and 4 347 234 is based on collagen in a binder to form a polymeric mass. U.S. Pat. No. 4 440 750 describes a wide number of compounds found to be osteogenic and describes a method and preparation for introducing such osteogenic materials where it is necessary to enhance or promote bone regeneration such as in the case of genetic disorders and traumatic injury.

A similar material is provided through an alternative approach in U.S. Pat. No. 3 949 073. That patent describes a collagen based solution which may be injected or implanted into the desired location and immediately polymerized into a stable mass upon injection. The reference also suggests the use of tissue augmentation materials in addition to the collagen polymer.

A different approach is taken in U.S. Pat. No. 3 919 773 which is directed to a bone replacement or implant particularly designed for use in dental or oral surgery where a socket is exposed after tooth extraction or an similar void is formed in dental bone. A polymerizable material comprised in contrast to U.S. Pat. No. 3 949 073 of synthetic polymers is injected into the socket and rapidly polymerizes therein to form a hardened permanent fixture. To enhance subsequent tissue connection but not replacement to the implant the material prior to polymerization is provided with discrete particles that are soluble in body fluids commonly encountered in the oral cavity. When the particles are dissolved the implant is made porous which enhances the connection of connective tissue thereto.

Also known in the art are synthetic polymers useful in general as surgical articles or devices owing to their complete bioabsorbability. U.S. Pat. No. 4 243 775 describes a polymer based on lactide and glycolide which when polymerized is designed as a medical suture or similar sterile surgical article. However the polymer of the reference is not moldable and is not suggested as being suitable for the enhancement of or replacement by connective tissue.

Other related art also includes a variety of hemostatic materials designed to control osseous hemorrhage particularly in the case of orthopedic surgery or the like. Several different compositions are generally described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 439 420 4 440 789 and 4 443 430. Although these compositions may be useful in the healing process and as an adjunct to surgical or traumatic injury to bone and similar connective tissue they do not serve as scaffolds or similar basis for the replacement of the implant by regenerated tissue nor do they substantially promote to the regeneration of that tissue.

Most often the biomaterials are delivered to the tissue site where augmentation is desired by means of an injectable composition which comprises the biomaterial and a biocompatible fluid that acts as a lubricant to improve the injectability of the biomaterial suspension. The injectable biomaterial compositions can be introduced into the tissue site by injection from a syringe intradermally or subcutaneously into humans or other mammals to augment soft tissue to correct congenital anomalies acquired defects or cosmetic defects. They may also be injected into internal tissues such as tissue defining sphincters to augment such tissue in the treatment of incontinence and for the treatment of unilateral vocal cord paralysis.

U.K. Patent Application No. 2 227 176 to Ersek et al relates to a microimplantation method for filling depressed scars unsymmetrical orbital floors and superficial bone defects in reconstructive surgery procedures using microparticles of about 20 to 3 000 microns that may be injected with an appropriate physiologic vehicle and hypodermic needle and syringe in a predetermined locus such as the base of depressed scars beneath skin areas of depression and beneath perichondrium or periosteum in surface irregularities of bone and cartilage. Textured microparticles can be used including silicone polytetrafluoroethylene ceramics or other inert substances. In those instances wherein the requirement is for hard substances biocompatible material such as calcium salts including hydroxyapatite or crystalline materials biocompatible ceramics biocompatible metals such as stainless steel particles or glass may be utilized. Appropriate physiological vehicles have been suggested including saline various starches polysaccharides and organic oils or fluids.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 803 075 to Wallace et al relates to an injectable implant composition for soft tissue augmentation comprising an aqueous suspension of a particulate biocompatible natural or synthetic polymer and a lubricant to improve the injectability of the biomaterial suspension. U.S. Pat. No. 4 837 285 to Berg et al elates to a collagen based composition for augmenting soft tissue repair wherein the collagen is in the form of resorbable matrix beads having an average pore size of about 50 to 350 microns with the collagen comprising up to about 10 by volume of the beads. U.S. Pat. No. 4 280 954 to Yannas et al relates to a collagen based composition for surgical use formed by contacting collagen with a mucopolysaccharide under conditions at which they form a reaction product and subsequently covalently crosslinking the reaction product. U.S. Pat. No. 4 352 883 to Lim discloses a method for encapsulating a core material in the form of living tissue or individual cells by forming a capsule of polysaccharide gums which can be gelled to form a shape retaining mass by being exposed to a change in conditions such as a pH change or by being exposed to multivalent cations such as calcium. Namiki Application of Teflon Paste for Urinary Incontinence Report of Two Cases . Vol. 39 pp. 280 282 1984 discloses the use of a polytetrafluoroethylene paste injection in the subdermal area to treat urinary incontinence. Drobeck et al Histologic Observation of Soft Tissue Responses to Implanted Multifaceted Particles and Discs of Hydroxylapatite Vol. 42 pp. 143 149 1984 discloses that the effects on soft tissue of long and short term implants of ceramic hydroxylapatite implanted subcutaneously in rats and subcutaneously and subperiosteally in dogs. The process consisted of implanting hydroxylapatite in various sizes and shapes for time periods ranging from seven days to six years to determine whether migration and or inflammation occurred. Misiek et al. Soft Tissue Responses to Hydroxylapatite Particles of Different Shapes Vol. 42 pp. 150 160 1984 discloses that the implantation of hydroxylapatite in the form of sharp edged particles or rounded particles in the buccal soft tissue pouches produced inflammatory response at the implant sites with both particle shapes. Each of the particles weighed 0.5 grams. However inflammation resolved at a faster rate at the sites implanted with the rounded hydroxylapatite particles. Shimizu Subcutaneous Tissue Responses in Rats to Injection of Fine Particles of Synthetic Hydroxyapatite Ceramic Vol. 9 No. 2 pp. 95 111 1988 discloses that subcutaneous injections of fine particles of hydroxyapatite ranging in diameter from about 0.65 to a few microns and scattered in the tissue were phagocytized by macrophages in extremely early stages. In contrast larger particles measuring several microns in diameter were not phagocytized but were surrounded by numerous macrophages and multinucleated giant cells. It was also observed that the small tissue responses to hydroxyapatite particles were essentially a non specific foreign body reaction without any cell or tissue damage. R. A. Appell The Artificial urinary Sphincter and Periurethral Injections . Vol. 2 No. 3 pp. 334 342 1990 is a survey article disclosing various means of treating urethral sphincteric incompetence including the use of injectables such as polytetrafluoroethylene micropolymer particles of about 4 to 100 microns in size in irregular shapes with glycerin and polysorbate. Another periurethral injectable means consists of highly purified bovine dermal collagen that is crosslinked with glutaraldehyde and dispersed in phosphate buffered physiologic saline. Politano et al. Periurethral Teflon Injection for Urinary Incontinence Vol. 111 pp. 180 183 1974 discloses the use of polytetrafluoroethylene paste injected into the urethra and the periurethral tissues to add bulk to these tissues to restore urinary control in both female and male patients having urinary incontinence. Malizia et al Migration and Granulomatous Reaction After Periurethral Injection of Polytef Teflon Vol. 251 No. 24 pp. 3277 3281 Jun. 22 29 1984 discloses that although patients with urinary incontinence have been treated successfully by periurethral injection of polytetrafluoroethylene paste a study in continent animals demonstrates migration of the polytetrafluoroethylene particles from the inspection site. Claes et al Pulmonary Migration Following Periurethral Polytetrafluoroethylene Injection for Urinary Incontinence Vol. 142 pp. 821 2 September 1989 confirms the finding of Malizia in reporting a case of clinically significant migration of polytetrafluoroethylene paste particles to the lungs after periurethral injection. Ersek et al Bioplastique A New Textured Copolymer Microparticle Promises Permanence in Soft Tissue Augmentation Vol. 87 No. 4 pp. 693 702 April 1991 discloses the use of a biphasic copolymer made of fully polymerized and vulcanized methylmethylpoly siloxane mixed with a plasdore hydrogel and used in reconstructing cleft lips depressed scars of chicken pox and indentations resulting from liposuction glabella frown wrinkles and soft tissue augmentation of thin lips. The biphasic copolymer particles were found to neither migrate nor become absorbed by the body were textured and had particle sizes varying from 100 to 600 microns. Lemperle et al. PMMA Microspheres for Intradermal Implantation Part I. Animal Research Vol. 26 No. 1 pp. 57 63 1991 discloses the use of polymethylmethacrylate microspheres having particle sizes of 10 to 63 microns in diameter used for correction of small deficiencies within the dermal corium to treat wrinkles and acne scars. Kresa et al Hydron Gel Implants in Vocal Cords Vol. 98. No. 3 pp. 242 245 March 1988 discloses a method for treating vocal cord adjustment where there is insufficient closure of the glottis which comprises introducing a shaped implant of a hydrophilic gel that has been previously dried to a glassy hard state into the vocal cord. Hirano et al Transcutaneous Intrafold Injection for Unilateral Vocal Cord Paralysis Functional Results . Vol. 99 pp. 598 604 1990 discloses the technique of transcutaneous intrafold silicone injection in treating glottic incompetence caused by unilateral vocal fold paralysis. The silicone injection is given under a local anesthetic with the patient in a supine position wherein the needle is inserted through the cricothyroid space. Hill et al Autologous Fat Injection for Vocal Cord Medialization in the Canine Larynx Vol. 101 pp. 344 348 April 1991 discloses the use of autologous fat as an alternative to TEFLON. collagen as the implantable material in vocal cord medialization with a view to its use as an alternative to non autologous injectable material in vocal cord augmentation. Mikaelian et al Lipoinjection for Unilateral Vocal Cord Paralysis Vol. 101 pp. 4654 68 May 1991 discloses that the commonly used procedure of injecting TEFLON paste to improve the caliber of voice in unilateral vocal cord paralysis has a number of drawbacks including respiratory obstruction from overinjected TEFLON and unsatisfactory voice quality. In this procedure lipoinjection of fat commonly obtained from the abdominal wall appears to impart a soft bulkiness to the injected cord while allowing it to retain its vibratory qualities. The injected fat is an autologous material which can be retrieved if excessively overinjected. Strasnick et al Transcutaneous Teflon Injection for Unilateral Vocal Cord Paralysis An Update Vol. 101 pp. 785 787 July 1991 discloses the procedure of TEFLON injection to restore glottic competence in cases of paralytic dysphonia.

Many previously attempted materials for tissue augmentation repair or replacement are unsuitable for a variety of reasons including efficacy lack of biocompatibility expense and ease of use. For example collagen being an organic substance principally derived from bovines presents potentially serious allergenic reaction problems and general difficulties with a patient s immune system. Further it is difficult to insure the sterility of collagen and the storage requirements associated with it are quite extensive and expensive. Many previously used materials lack the mechanical strength and or flexibility to be useful in tissue repair and or replacement. Many materials also deteriorate fairly quickly and therefore do not present a viable long term treatment option.

There remains an ongoing need for treatments and materials to repair and or replace tissue that is damaged for asthetic structural and or functional purposes or provide post surgical augmentation of tissue including treatments in which the damaged tissue is supplemented partially replaced or entirely replaced. Further there is a demand for a durable long lasting biocompatible approach that restores the asthetic appearance of the tissue and or restores the normal physiological function of the tissue including providing or improving function movement balance and support.

An embodiment of the present invention provides a method for repairing or replacing damaged tissue comprising identifying a site of damaged tissue in a subject and injecting into the subject at or near the site of damaged tissue an alloplastic and biocompatible composition comprising an unsubstituted acrylate substituted acrylate copolymer in an amount sufficient to repair or replace the damaged tissue.

A further embodiment of the present invention provides a method for repairing or replacing damaged tissue comprising injecting into a subject at or near a site having damaged tissue an effective amount of a composition comprising a copolymer of phenylethyl acrylate and phenylethyl methacrylate.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides a method of preparing a composition for repairing or replacing tissue comprising admixing a finely ground copolymer of phenylethyl acrylate and phenylethyl methacrylate with a physiologically acceptable suspending agent to form an injectable biocompatible material.

Yet another embodiment of the present invention provides a method of preparing a soft tissue filler for repairing or replacing tissue comprising admixing an acrylate methacrylate copolymer with a physiologically acceptable suspending agent to form an injectable biocompatible material.

A further embodiment of the present invention provides a method for repairing or replacing damaged tissue in a subject comprising performing a surgical incision and injecting at or near the site of the surgical incision a composition comprising an unsubstituted acrylate substituted acrylate copolymer in an amount sufficient to repair or replace the damaged tissue.

Another embodiment of the present invention provides a method for repairing or replacing damaged tissue in a subject comprising injecting at or near a site of tissue damage a composition comprising an unsubstituted acrylate substituted acrylate copolymer and a substance that promotes regeneration of tissue.

Yet another embodiment of the present invention provides use of a composition to repair or replace damaged tissue in a subject said composition comprising an effective amount of an unsubstituted acrylate substituted acrylate copolymer and a physiologically acceptable suspending agent.

A further embodiment of the present invention provides an apparatus for tissue repair or replacement comprising an implantable device comprising an unsubstituted acrylate substituted acrylate copolymer.

The foregoing and other aspects of the present invention will now be described in more detail with respect to embodiments described herein. It should be appreciated that the invention can be embodied in different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art.

The terminology used in the description of the invention herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used in the description of the embodiments of the invention and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Also as used herein and or refers to and encompasses any and all possible combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. Furthermore about as used herein when referring to a measurable value such as an amount of a compound dose time temperature is meant to encompass variations of 5 1 0.5 or even 0.1 of the specified amount. Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used in the description have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs.

 Administration as used herein refers broadly to any means by which a composition is given to a patient. A preferred route of administration is by injection and unless otherwise indicated any reference herein to administration includes administration by injection. 

An aqueous medium as the term is used herein refers to a liquid medium composed largely but not necessarily exclusively of water. Other components may also be present such as salts co solvents buffers stabilizers dispersants colorants and the like.

 Autologous solution as used herein refers broadly to any liquid that is autologous to a patient to be treated or that originates from the patient to be treated.

 Biocompatible as used herein refers broadly to the quality of a material to be compatible with biological tissues that is not toxic to biological tissues and that is tolerated by the biological tissues.

 Biocompatible polymer as used herein refers broadly to a polymer that is substantially non toxic and does not tend to produce substantial immune responses clotting or other undesirable effects.

 Composition as used herein refers broadly to any composition containing an agent or agents. The composition may comprise a dry formulation an aqueous solution a paste formulation an organic solution formulation a gel formulation a jelly formulation or a sterile composition. Compositions comprising the molecules described herein can be stored in freeze dried form and can be associated with a stabilizing agent such as a carbohydrate. Composition as used herein includes pharmaceutical compositions which refers broadly to a chemical or biological composition suitable for administration to a subject e.g. mammal . Such compositions may be specifically formulated for administration via one or more of a number of routes including but not limited to cutaneous epicutaneous infusion intradermal intrathecal subcutaneous subdermal and transdermal. In addition the composition may be in the form of a capsule drops foams gel gum injection liquid patch pill porous pouch powder or tablet.

 Copolymer as used herein refers broadly to a polymer comprising more than one different monomer in the polymer chain e.g. heteropolymer . The constituent monomers may be arranged in various ways including alternating copolymers periodic copolymers statistical copolymers random copolymers graft copolymers block copolymers stereoblock copolymers and other arrangements known in the art. Copolymers may be linear or branched which includes star copolymers brush copolymers and comb copolymers and other branched copolymer structures that are known in the art. For example without limitation the molar ratio between the substituent monomers in a copolymer may be about 1 1000 1 100 1 10 1 9 1 8 1 7 1 6 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2 or 1 1 according to various embodiments.

 Effective amount or effective as used herein refers broadly to a dose that causes a relief of symptoms of a disease or disorder as noted through clinical testing and evaluation or patient observation. Effective amount or effective further can further designate a dose that causes a detectable change in biological or chemical activity. The detectable changes may be detected and or further quantified by one skilled in the art for the relevant mechanism or process. Moreover effective amount or effective may designate an amount that maintains a desired physiological state i.e. reduces or prevents significant decline and or promotes improvement in the condition of interest e.g. relief of symptoms . As is generally understood in the art the dosage will vary depending on the administration routes symptoms age and body weight of the patient but also depending upon the composition being administered

 Gelatin as the term is used herein is a collagen derived material that is about 98 99 protein by dry weight. The approximate amino acid composition of gelatin is glycine 21 proline 12 hydroxyproline 12 glutamate 10 alanine 9 arginine 8 aspartate 6 lysine 4 serine 4 leucine 3 valine 2 phenylalanine 2 threonine 2 isoleucine 1 hydroxylysine 1 methionine and histidine

 Increased or increase as used herein refers broadly to a quantified change in a measurable quality that is larger than the margin of error inherent in the measurement technique preferably an increase by about 2 fold or greater relative to a control measurement more preferably an increase by about 5 fold or greater and most preferably an increase by about 10 fold or greater. In particular the term increase as used herein refers broadly to make greater as in number size strength or quality add to and or augment. Increase as used herein also encompasses expand extend prolong augment and or enlarge. Increase as used herein additionally encompasses where a given parameter e.g. level amount size scope duration weight is greater as in number size strength or quality than it once was. Furthermore the increase in any number size strength or quality of a given parameter may be determined as between to two or more time points especially if before or after a treatment event or administration of an agent or composition. Further increase refers broadly to significant or detectable functionally analytically and or clinically changes in the number size strength or quality of a given parameter in question.

 Mammal as used herein refers broadly to any and all warm blooded vertebrate animals of the class Mammalia including humans characterized by a covering of hair on the skin and in the female milk producing mammary glands for nourishing the young. Examples of mammals include but are not limited to humans non human primates alpacas camels capybaras cats chimpanzees chinchillas cows dogs goats gorillas horses llamas mice pigs rats sheep and tapirs. Mammals include but are not limited to bovine canine equine feline murine ovine porcine primate and rodent species. Mammal also includes but is not limited to those listed on the Mammal Species of the World maintained by the National Museum of Natural History Smithsonian Institution in Washington D.C.

As used herein the act of mixing between mutually coupled syringes refers to a procedure wherein one syringe is partially filled with one ingredient a second syringe is partially filled with a second ingredient and the two syringes are coupled together as with a luer connector such that the contents of the syringes are mixed by drawing the contents of one syringe through the connector into the second syringe then reciprocally expelling the contents of the second syringe back into the first syringe. This process may be repeated until adequate mixing is achieved.

 Patient as used herein refers broadly to any animal who is in need of treatment either to alleviate a disease state or to prevent the occurrence or reoccurrence of a disease state. Also Patient as used herein refers broadly to any animal who has a history of disease symptoms signs was previously diagnosed or is a member of a patient population for a disease. The patient may be a clinical patient such as a human or a veterinary patient such as a companion domesticated livestock exotic or zoo animal.

 Physiologically acceptable suspending agent or pharmaceutically acceptable suspending agent as used herein refers broadly to physiologically inert substances e.g. solvent or dispersion media that acts to reduce the sedimentation rate of particles e.g. pliable biocompatible material in suspension or increases the viscosity of the suspension. Physiologically acceptable suspending agent includes aqueous solutions dispersions and polymers. The use of such media and agents for physiologically acceptable suspending agents is well known in the art.

 Restoring as used herein refers broadly to the action of bringing back totally or partly specific normal physiological properties such as the physico chemical the physical e.g. thickness the mechanical e.g. absorbing or the physiological functions.

 Self gelling as used herein refers broadly to the ability of turning into gels under specific conditions such as the internal composition or and the action of external stimuli. Self gelling encompasses pH triggered or pH controlled gelling thermo gelling and ionic gelling.

 Signs of disease as used herein refers broadly to any abnormality indicative of disease discoverable on examination of the patient an objective indication of disease in contrast to a symptom which is a subjective indication of disease.

 Solution as used herein refers broadly to any liquid organic or aqueous low to high viscosity systems to any dispersions of solids into liquid organic or aqueous low to high viscosity systems and to any gelled organic or aqueous extrudable or injectable systems. Such solutions may comprise soluble small size molecules soluble monomers soluble oligomers soluble polymers and copolymers as well as nonsoluble solid organic or mineral entities such as microparticles or nanoparticles.

 Subjects as used herein refers broadly to anyone suitable to be treated according to the present invention include but are not limited to and mammalian subjects e.g. humans . The present invention can also be carried out on animal subjects particularly mammalian subjects such as mice rats dogs cats cattle goats sheep and horses for veterinary purposes and for screening testing and development purposes. Subjects is used interchangeably with patients. 

A suture or the act of suturing refers to the physical joining of two separate masses of tissue with thread or fiber or alternatively with solid materials such as fabrics or plastic films on which an adhesive is disposed whereby the physical joining serves to hold the separate tissue masses in close physical proximity at least temporarily such as for the period of time required for biological healing to occur. A suture line is a line of for example stitches of thread as is used to close an incision at the end of a surgical procedure.

 Swellable microspheres as used in the present invention refers to microspheres that are capable of being enlarged in size yet still retain substantially the same shape upon certain conditions such as contacting physiological fluids.

 Symptoms of disease as used herein refers broadly to any morbid phenomenon or departure from the normal in structure function or sensation experienced by the patient and indicative of disease.

 Therapy or therapeutic as used herein refers broadly to treating a disease arresting or reducing the development of the disease or its clinical symptoms and or relieving the disease causing regression of the disease or its clinical symptoms. Therapy encompasses treatment cure remedy minimization reduction alleviation and or providing relief from a disease signs and or symptoms. Therapy encompasses an alleviation of signs and or symptoms in patients with ongoing disease signs and or symptoms e.g. pain inflammation. The term reduced for purpose of therapy refers broadly to the clinical significant reduction in signs and or symptoms. Therapy includes treating chronic disease maintenance and acute disease.

 Tissue as used herein refers to any material that forms solid or semi solid structures that are found in any of the components of a living organism including for example membrane skin muscle bone cartilage ligament nerves and nerve sheathes meninges connective tissue blood vessels the sclera or iris of the eye the solid materials constituting internal organs such as liver stomach pancreas intestine kidney thymus uterus testes bladder lung heart and any other internal structures that are solid or semi solid in texture and the like without limitation.

 Treating or treatment as used herein refers broadly to a course of therapy where signs and or symptoms are present in the patient. The term reduced for purpose of therapy refers broadly to clinically significant reduction in signs and or symptoms. Treatment can alleviate decrease lessen relieve remedy repair and or soothe a disease signs and or symptoms. By the terms treating or treatment of a condition it is intended that the severity of the disorder or the symptoms of the condition are reduced or the condition is partially or entirely eliminated as compared to that which would occur in the absence of treatment. Treatment does not require the achievement of a complete cure of the condition. Treatment includes treating chronic disease maintenance and acute disease.

Tissue repair and or replacement involves administration of a pliable biocompatible material and a physiologically acceptable suspending agent according to various embodiment of the present invention. The pliable biocompatible material may be a polymer including copolymers calcium hydroxylapatite or autologous fat and the physiologically acceptable suspending agent may be any solvent suspension colloid gel foam macromolecules polymers including copolymers or solution. Supplementary active compounds may be incorporated into the tissue repair and or replacement compositions e.g. analgesics anti inflammatory agents . Various embodiments of the present invention are directed to methods for effecting tissue repair. Specifically embodiments present invention can be used to provide for the repair and restoration of tissue in a minimally invasive fashion. Certain embodiments of the present invention are directed to implants constructed of partially constructed of coated with or embedded with a composition in accordance with the present invention or their progenitors as a means of reducing unfavorable host response to the implant. Specifically implants according to certain embodiments of the present invention are resistant to encapsulation and inflammatory response.

Polymers acceptable for use in the present invention include but are not limited to alginate cellulose including substituted cellulose chitosan chondrotin sulfate fatty acids gelatin glycol glycosaminoglycans hyaluronic acid polyacrylamide polyethylene glycol polylysine polypeptides polysaccharides proteoglycans and silicone.

The pliable biocompatible material is not absorbable or degradable by the body and is inert. The material may be pliable because it is a characteristic that is important for tissue repair and or replacement applications. The material may also be hydrophobic because it is beneficial for expansion of the tissue repair and or replacement filler. The material may comprise a colorant agent e.g. dye contrast agent tint for easier administration monitoring or removal. The material may produce little or no immunological response in the host tissue or no immunological response in the host tissue. For example the administration of the material should not lead to the formation of inflammatory granuloma and scarring.

The materials described herein may be purified from cells that naturally express it purified from cells e.g. bacteria plant insect mammal that have been altered to express it e.g. recombinant or synthesized using standard methods known in the art. The pliable biocompatible materials described herein may also be obtained from commercial sources as a purified or isolated form e.g. natural recombinant or synthetic sources .

The solid particles may be a dust powder non porous microspheres nanoparticles granules grains or microbeads. The solid particles may easily administered e.g. injected remain immobilised at the administration site and be tolerated by the tissue e.g. little or no side effects . Generally the solid particles may be small enough to be injected through a cannula of an injection syringe to the desired site and not be identified by human touch as a single foreign body under the skin. The material may be a solid particle with a diameter such that it is not washed away through lymph tracts or other tissue tracts from the site to which they have administered.

According to certain embodiments the solid particles have a spherical form or a spherical like form. Spherical formed particles have an advantage in that they form a closely packed arrangement at the site where they are administered.

According to an embodiment the particles have an average diameter of less than about 100 m. According to a further embodiment the particles have a average diameter of less than about 10 m. According to a further embodiment the particles have an average diameter of about 0.01 m to about 10 m. According to a further embodiment the particles have an average diameter of about 0.1 m to about 5 m.

The solid particles may be swellable microspheres which are highly water absorbing microspheres capable of swelling to many times of their original sizes under certain conditions. Swellable microspheres are capable of swelling upon contacting with medium resembling the properties of physiological fluids thus allowing the microspheres to secure themselves into position after injection into the body. Furthermore the microspheres are substantially spherical and can be easily calibrated so that their sizes can be accurately determined.

The swellable microspheres can be enlarged to about four 4 times their original diameter or fifteen 15 times their original volume. The degree of swelling can be controlled by controlling factors such as the solvents in which they are suspended specific polymers used to make the microspheres and degree of crosslinking. This property enables the microspheres to be easily injected through needles of 30 gauge or smaller yet be enlarged and secured at the injection site and of sufficient size to avoid or reduce the chance of being eliminated by the immune system of the mammal.

The fabrication of and application of microspheres is known and as such the following examples are included herein as reference. U.S. Pat. No. 3 887 699 describes a solid biodegradable polymer spheroid implants which incorporate a drug for sustained release as the polymer naturally degrades in the human body. Many different methods of constructing this type of controlled release system have been developed. Although the uniform matrix of a polymer provides a simple and efficient structure for the controlled release of agents with microspheres many advanced methods of containing and releasing the therapeutic agents have been developed. U.S. Pat. No. 4 637 905 Gardner discloses a method for encapsulating a therapeutic agent within a biodegradable polymer microsphere. U.S. Pat. No. 4 652 441 Okada et al. discloses a method of utilizing a water in oil emulsion to give prolonged release of a water soluble drug. The patent describes a wide variety of drugs that can be delivered via prolonged release micro capsules as well as suitable polymeric materials and drug retaining substances. It is conceived that the system of this invention could incorporate any of the drugs described to in this patent to generate a beneficial effect in the cardiac tissue. U.S. Pat. No. 5 718 921 Mathiowitz et al. discloses a method for constructing a multiple layer microsphere which can release two different drugs at controlled rates or a singe drug at two different rates. U.S. Pat. No. 5 912 017 Mathiowitz et al. also discloses a method of forming two layered microspheres by using an organic solvent or melting two different polymers combining them with a desired substance and cooling. Microspheres are not limited to just water soluble therapeutic agents. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 288 502 McGinity et al. which discloses a multi phase microsphere which is capable of incorporating water soluble and water insoluble drugs.

The polymer is administered in any manner as would be well known to persons of ordinary skill in the art. According to certain embodiments the polymer may be administered in a volume at least about 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 or 0.10 L as well as at least about 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 or 1.0 L as well as at least about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 L. The polymer may be administered in a volume of at least about 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 100 L in certain embodiments. The volume of the composition administered to the patient may be about 1 5 5 10 or 1 100 L in certain embodiments.

According to certain embodiments the polymer may be administered in a volume at least about 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 or 0.10 mL cc as well as at least about 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 or 1.0 mL as well as at least about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 mL cc . The volume of the composition administered to the patient may be about 1 5 5 10 or 1 10 mL cc .

According to certain embodiments the composition administered may comprise a physiological acceptable suspending agent of at least about 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 or 0.10 w w as well as at least about 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 or 1.0 w w as well as at least about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 w w . The composition may comprise a physiological acceptable suspending agent of at least about 1 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 99 or 99.5 w w .

The composition administered may comprise a pliable biocompatible material of at least about 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 or 0.10 w w as well as at least about 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 or 1.0 w w as well as at least about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 w w . according to certain embodiments. The composition administered may comprise a pliable biocompatible material of at least about 1 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 99 or 99.5 w w according to certain embodiments.

The composition administered may comprise a physiological acceptable suspending agent of at least about 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 or 0.10 g mL as well as at least about 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 or 1.0 g mL as well as at least about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 g mL. according to certain embodiments. The composition administered may comprise a physiological acceptable suspending agent at least about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 99 99.5 or 100 g mL according to certain embodiments.

The composition administered may comprise about a physiological acceptable suspending agent at least about 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 or 0.10 mg mL as well as at least about 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 or 1.0 mg mL as well as at least about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 mg mL according to certain embodiments. The composition administered may comprise a physiological acceptable suspending agent of at least about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 99 99.5 or 100 g mL according to certain embodiments.

The composition administered may comprise a pliable biocompatible material at least about 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 or 0.10 g mL as well as at least about 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 or 1.0 g mL as well as at least about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 g mL according to certain embodiments. The composition may comprise a pliable biocompatible material at least about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 99 99.5 or 100 g mL according to certain embodiments.

According to embodiments of the invention the composition may comprise a pliable biocompatible material of at least about 0.01 0.02 0.03 0.04 0.05 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 or 0.10 mg mL as well as at least about 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 or 1.0 mg mL as well as at least about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 mg mL. According to embodiments of the invention the composition may comprise a pliable biocompatible material of at least about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 96 97 98 99 99.5 or 100 mg mL.

According to embodiments of the invention the composition may comprise at least 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 different pliable biocompatible materials without limitation. The composition may comprise at least 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 different physiological acceptable suspending agents for example without limitation. For example the composition may comprise at least one pliable biocompatible material and at least one physiological acceptable suspending agent. Further the physiological acceptable suspending agent may comprise a mixture of different components e.g. mixture of fatty acids .

According to certain embodiments the composition may be under gel or solid form at low to room temperature e.g. about 20 C. and below but may become more or less a viscous liquid at higher temperatures e.g. about above 35 40 C.

According to certain embodiments the composition may become highly viscous or turn into a gel after being injected by one of the following processes a Gelling the solution is injected as a liquid and later turns in situ into a gel b Polymerisation in situ the solution containing monomers and or oligomers or a mixture of two or more different monomers is injected as a liquid and later polymerises or co polymerises in situ c Concentration the solution contains a viscous component mixed with an appropriate metabolically absorbable liquid vehicle to reduce viscosity and to allow injectability the solvent or vehicle after injection being absorbed by the patient thus increasing the concentration and hence the viscosity of the viscous component.

The viscosity may be determined using methods known in the art e.g. a rotating viscometer at 20 C. Ostwald viscometer . See e.g. Akhare et al. 2007 45 984 986. The viscosity of the tissue repair and or replacement filler composition may be at least about 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 or 1 000 mPa S. millipascal second .

A copolymer suitable for use in the present invention comprises an unsubstituted acrylate monomer and a substituted acrylate monomer e.g. acrylate methacrylate copolymer . Any suitable acrylate methacrylate copolymer as would be known to persons skilled in the art based upon the guidance provided in the present specification may be used in the present invention. According to certain embodiments the substituted acrylate monomer is substituted with a methyl group. According to further embodiments other alkyl group derivatives e.g. one two three four five or six carbons in length e.g. methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl tert butyl pentyl hexyl are used as a substituent in the substituted acrylate monomer. Cyclic alkyl groups with four five or six carbons are the substituent group on the substituted acrylate monomer in further embodiments. The substituent group for the substituted acrylate monomer is a halogen group in further embodiments. For example the halogen group may be flourine F chlorine Cl bromine Br iodine I or astatine At . Additionally a nitrile group is another possible substituent for the substituted acrylate monomer in further embodiments. In a further embodiment the acrylate methacrylate copolymer is the copolymer used in AcrySof MA60BM intraocular lenses Alcon Laboratories .

The inventor surprisingly found that a copolymer comprising an unsubstituted acrylate monomer and a substituted acrylate monomer e.g. acrylate methacrylate copolymer in a finely ground powder form is a highly desirable copolymer for use in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. For example when introduced into human tissue a copolymer comprising an unsubstituted acrylate monomer and a substituted acrylate monomer e.g. acrylate methacrylate copolymer has few or no side effects. Further the copolymers of the present invention tend not to form granulomas when introduced into human tissue in contrast with other polymers.

In further embodiments calcium hydroxylapatite may be used as a pliable biocompatible material or in combination with the copolymer described above. Calcium hydroxylapatite is a component of bone and teeth may be used in the form of microspheres suspended in an aqueous carrier e.g. RADIESSE calcium hydroxylaptite . The host tissue reacts to the injected calcium hydroxyapatite microspheres to stimulate collagen production to encapsulate the microspheres. Calcium hydroxylapatite may be admixed with a polymer to form a pliable composite.

In further embodiments collagen may be employed as a pliable biocompatible material or in combination with the copolymer described above to form the pliable biocompatible material. Collagen is the major insoluble fibrous protein in the extracellular matrix and in connective tissue. Collagen that may be used including but not limited to autologous synthetic recombinant and natural collagen. See U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 544 516 4 698 360 and 5 856 308 and WO 2006 098326. Collagen may be isolated from cattle pigs or humans e.g. autologous . Collagen may also be made by recombinant means including transgenic animals bacteria insect cells and transgenic plants. See U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 111 165 6 413 742 and 7 238 783 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0030184. For example Autologen collagen is a collagen extracted from a patient sterilized and processed into injectable form. Alternatively Isolagen pharmaceutical composition of fibroblasts a preparation of live cloned fibroblasts such as collagen producing cells which are also derived from a patient s own tissue repair and or replacement and prepared into liquid form may be used to produce collagen in situ. Collagen may be cross linked with glutaraldehyde. Further examples of commercially available collagen include but are not limited to bovine human cross linked porcine EVOLENCE and synthetic FG 5030 synthetic human collagen type III COSMOPLAST highly purified human collagen COSMODERM highly purified human collagen .

In further embodiments at least one fatty acid may be used as a pliable biocompatible material or in combination with the copolymer described above to form the pliable biocompatible material. Fatty acids suitable for use in this invention include but are not limited to natural or unnatural saturated and mono or poly unsaturated fatty acids. Additionally exemplary fatty acids include but are not limited to palmitate stearate myristate palmitoleate oleate vaccenate linoleate and their acyclic cyclic heterocyclic aromatic ester derivatives thereof. The fatty acid derivatives may comprise one or more groups including but not limited to hydroxy acyloxy aryloxy amino sulfhydryl sulfonate sulfate phosphonate phosphate bis tris and poly phosphonates and phosphates phosphatidyl nucleosides oligosaccharides polysaccharides polyols and a mixture thereof. An exemplary fatty acid mixture comprises oleoate and palmitate e.g. 17 palmitic acid and 83 oleic acid w w . Another exemplary fatty acid mixture comprise myristate palmitate stearate palmitoleate vaccenate oleate and linoleate e.g. myristate 1.9 palmitate 15.9 stearate 1.7 palmitoleate 12.3 vaccenate 4.8 oleate 46.4 and linoleate 17.0 w w .

In further embodiments hyaluronan hyaluronic acid or hyaluronate may be used as a pliable biocompatible material or in combination with the copolymer described above to form the pliable biocompatible material. Hyaluronan is an anionic nonsulfated glycosaminoglycan distributed widely throughout connective epithelial and neural tissues. Exemplary hyaluronan compositions include but are not limited to sodium hyaluronate JUVEDEM cross linked hyaluronic acid RESTYLANE hyaluronic acid and PERLANE hyaluronic acid . Hyaluronan made be admixed with a another agent such as an analgesic e.g. PREVELLE SILK hyaluronic acid with lidocaine .

Polyacrylates that may be used include but are not limited to polymethylacrylate and polymethylmethacrylate PMMA . ARTEFILL polymethylmethacrylate PMMA microspheres is a permanent microsphere based injectable filler comprising non resorbable microspheres having a diameter of between 30 42 m and a smooth surface. Treatment with PMMA is considered permanent not only because of the volume increase under the defect but also because of the presumed life long stimulation of collagen deposition beneath the defect. The electrical charge of filler microbeads appears to play a role in attracting and activating macrophages which promotes formation of foreign body giant cells then fibroblasts and thereby increases the composition of new connective tissue. Adverse side effects may include lumpiness and inflammatory granulomas. PMMA may be admixed with another filler for use as a tissue repair and or replacement filler composition. For example collagen may be combined with PMMA in a ratio of 20 PMMA to 80 collagen. This collagen PMMA mixture may further comprise an anesthetic such as lidocaine e.g. 3 lidocaine anesthetic solution . See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 344 452.

In further embodiments polyacrylamide IUPAC poly 2 propenamide or poly 1 carbamoylethylene is a polymer CHCHCONH formed from acrylamide. Polyacrylamide may be admixed with another compound to form a composite. For example AQUAMID hydrophilic polyacrylamide is a composition currently used in tissue augmentation. See U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2006 0115457 and 2008 0292706.

In further embodiments polyalkylene glycol polymers may be used as a pliable biocompatible material may be used in the present invention or in combination with the copolymer described above to form the pliable biocompatible material. Polyalkylene glycol polymers include but are not limited to straight or branched polyalkylene glycol polymers such as polyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol and polybutylene glycol and further includes the monoalkylether of the polyalkylene glycol. The polyalkylene glycol polymer may be a lower alkyl polyalkylene glycol moiety such as a polyethylene glycol moiety PEG a polypropylene glycol moiety or a polybutylene glycol moiety. PEG has the formula HO CHCHO H where n can range from about 1 100 5 30 or 1 4000. The PEG moiety can be linear or branched. PEG may be attached to groups such as hydroxyl alkyl aryl acyl or ester. For example PEG may be an alkoxy PEG such as methoxy PEG or mPEG where one terminus is a relatively inert alkoxy group while the other terminus is a hydroxyl group. Further polyalkylene glycol polymers include but are not limited to poly ethylene glycol poly propylene glycol and its copolymers poly ethylene glycol copolymers with other synthetics such as poly hydroxy acids poly vinyl alcohol poly vinyl pyrrolidone and mixture thereof.

In further embodiments polylactic acid microspheres may be used as a pliable biocompatible material or in combination with the copolymer described above to form the pliable biocompatible material. The microspheres may have a diameter of about 2 50 m. The polylactic acid microspheres become porous after a first phase of moderate inflammation in the host tissue followed by a second stronger inflammation in which foreign body giant cells phagocytose the microspheres and accelerate the implant s degradation. The improvement of defects is immediate and has been reported to last up to two years. The non resorbable microspheres add permanent volume under the treated defect as well as stimulate the host to produce collagen fibers around the implant. An example of polylactic acid which may be used is SCULPTRA injectable polylactic acid .

In further embodiments proteoglycans may be used as a pliable biocompatible material or in combination with the copolymer described above to form the pliable biocompatible material. Proteoglycans are glycoproteins in connective tissue comprising a core protein and one or more covalently attached glycosaminoglycan GAG chain s . Proteoglycans can be categorized depending upon the nature of their glycosaminoglycan chains and include but are not limited to chondroitin sulfate dermatan sulfate heparin heparan sulfate and keratan sulfate.

The pliable biocompatible materials including polymers described herein may be cross linked using any suitable cross linking agent as would be known to persons skilled in the art for example 1.4 butanediol diacrylate. Exemplary cross linking agents may be any terminally ethylenically unsaturated compound having more than one unsaturated group i.e. a multiplicity of unsaturated groups. See U.S. Pat. No. 5 741 923. Other exemplary cross linking agents include but are not limited to ethylene glycol diacrylate or dimethacrylate diethylene glycol diacrylate or dimethacrylate triethylene glycol diacrylate or dimethacrylate tetraethylene glycol diacrylate or dimethacrylate polyethylene glycol diacrylate or dimethacrylate trimethylolpropane triacrylate or trimethacrylate bisphenol A diacrylate or dimethacrylate ethoxylated bisphenol A diacrylate or dimethacrylate pentaerythritol tri and tetra acrylate or methacrylate tetramethylene diacrylate or dimethacrylate methylene bisacrylamide or methacrylamide dimethylene bisacrylamide or methacrylamide N N dihydroxyethylene bisacrylamide or methacrylamide hexamethylene bisacrylamide or methacrylamide decamethylene bisacrylamide or methacrylamide divinyl benzene vinyl methacrylate and allyl methacrylate. Additional exemplary cross linking agents include 1 3 bis 4 methacryloyl oxyalkyl tetra disiloxane and similar poly organo siloxane monomers. See U.S. Pat. No. 4 153 641. Another group of exemplary cross linking agents are the resonance free di alkylene tertiary amine cyclic compounds e.g. N N divinyl ethylene urea . See U.S. Pat. No. 4 436 887. Further exemplary cross linking agents include di or polyvinyl ethers of di or polyvalent alcohols such as ethylene glycol divinyl ether.

The physiologically acceptable suspending agent generally acts to the reduce viscosity reduce the sedimentation rate of particles in suspension and or allow injectability at room temperature. When admixed with a pliable biocompatible material it forms a composition that may be a suspension colloid gel or solution. The physiologically acceptable suspending agent may be resorbable.

The physiologically acceptable suspending agent may be a solution comprising an aqueous liquid or a non aqueous liquid such as water soluble and water insoluble solvents or liquid chemicals e.g. alcoholic solvents alkylene glycols ethylene glycol dimethyl sulfoxide ethanol ethyl acetate ethylene glycol glycerol isopropyl alcohol N methyl pyrrolidone physiological buffers poly alcohols propylene carbonate triacetin water and mixtures thereof .

The physiologically acceptable suspending agent may be a buffered physiological solution e.g. normal saline Ringer s solution phosphate buffered saline PBS TRIS buffered saline TBS HEPES buffered saline HBS . The buffered physiological solution may have a pH or about 7.0 to about 8.0 including a pH of about 7.1 7.2 7.3 7.4 7.5 7.6 7.7 7.8 or 7.9.

The physiologically acceptable suspending agent may be a polymer including copolymers as described herein. For example hyaluronan collagen or fatty acids may used as physiological acceptable suspending agents.

The physiologically acceptable suspending agent may be stored in one form e.g. gel and then prepared e.g. heated to change into an injectable form e.g. solution prior to administration. For example the solution may be stored as a gel at a temperature below the physiological temperature and heated above the physiological temperature prior to use in order for the solution to be injectable. The suspending agents may contain a tenside surfactant for instance Tween 80 polyethoxysorbitanoleate because surfactants change the surface tension of water so that the solid particles and in particular the polymer particles float better.

The solution may be a self gelling solution such as a stimuli triggered self gelling polymeric solution and preferably a thermo gelling solution. This thermo gelling solution may be a thermo gelling chitosan based aqueous. WO 99 07416. Self gelling solutions may be liquid at low to room temperature e.g. about 25 C. or below and may form a solid gel at a higher temperature e.g. above 30 C. Inversely such self gelling solutions may be liquid at high temperatures e.g. above 40 C. but may form a gel at a lower temperature e.g. below 40 C. Typical thermo gelling polymeric solutions may be designed with polymers selected among poly acrylic acid methyl cellulose hydroxyethyl cellulose hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose poly ethylene oxide based triblock copolymers or chitosan. Other injectable self forming systems e.g. Lower critical solution temperature LCST liquid crystalline polymer precipitation solid precipitation in situ coagulation may also be used.

The preferred forms of administration in the present invention are injectable forms known in the art of pharmaceutics. The formulations may be conveniently prepared by any of the methods well known in the art. The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may include one or more suitable production aids or excipients including fillers binders disintegrants lubricants diluents flow agents buffering agents moistening agents preservatives colorants and pharmaceutically compatible carriers.

For each of the recited embodiments the composition can be administered by a variety of dosage forms as known in the art. Any biologically acceptable dosage form known to persons of ordinary skill in the art and combinations thereof are contemplated. Examples of such dosage forms include without limitation elixirs emulsions liquids solutions suspensions syrups emulsions beads powders gum granules particles microparticles dispersible granules topicals patches implants depot implants injectables infusions and combinations thereof.

According to certain embodiments of the invention a therapeutic agent may be included in the composition to be administered or in another composition administered to the patient. A therapeutic agent is any agent which serves to repair damage to a living organism to heal the organism to cure a malcondition to combat an infection by a microorganism or a virus to assist the body of the living mammal to return to a healthy state. A protective agent is any agent which serves to prevent the occurrence of damage to an organism such as by preventing the establishment of an infection by a microorganism to prevent the establishment of a malcondition to preserve an otherwise healthy body in the state of health. Therapeutic and protective agents comprise pharmaceuticals radiopharmaceuticals hormones or their analogs enzymes materials for genetic therapy such as antisense nucleotides or their analogs macroscopic ingredients such as bone powder as is used to induce bone growth growth factors as may be used to stimulate tissue growth such as by angiogenesis or any other such agents as are medically advantageous for use to treat a pathological condition. As used herein treating or treat includes i preventing a pathologic condition from occurring e.g. prophylaxis ii inhibiting the pathologic condition or arresting its development iii relieving the pathologic condition and or iv diminishing symptoms associated with the pathologic condition.

A therapeutic agent or a protective agent may comprise a drug. As used herein a drug refers to a therapeutic agent or a diagnostic agent and includes any substance other than food used in the prevention diagnosis alleviation treatment or cure of a disease. 25.sup.th Edition 1990 . The drug can include any substance disclosed in at least one of The Merck Index 12.sup.th Edition 1996 Pei Show Juo 1996 U.S. Pharmacopeia Dictionary 2000 Edition and 2001 Edition.

Specifically the drug can include but is not limited to one or more polynucleotides polypeptides oligonucleotides gene therapy agents nucleotide analogs nucleoside analogs polynucleic acid decoys therapeutic antibodies anti inflammatory agents blood modifiers anti platelet agents anti coagulation agents immune suppressive agents anti neoplastic agents anti cancer agents anti cell proliferation agents and nitric oxide releasing agents.

The polynucleotide can include deoxyribonucleic acid DNA ribonucleic acid RNA double stranded DNA double stranded RNA duplex DNA RNA antisense polynucleotides functional RNA or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the polynucleotide can be RNA. In another embodiment the polynucleotide can be DNA. In another embodiment the polynucleotide can be an antisense polynucleotide.

The polynucleotide can be a single stranded polynucleotide or a double stranded polynucleotide. The polynucleotide can have any suitable length. Specifically the polynucleotide can be about 2 to about 5 000 nucleotides in length inclusive about 2 to about 1000 nucleotides in length inclusive about 2 to about 100 nucleotides in length inclusive or about 2 to about 10 nucleotides in length inclusive.

An antisense polynucleotide is typically a polynucleotide that is complimentary to an mRNA which encodes a target protein. For example the mRNA can encode a cancer promoting protein i.e. the product of an oncogene. The antisense polynucleotide is complimentary to the single stranded mRNA and will form a duplex and thereby inhibit expression of the target gene i.e. will inhibit expression of the oncogene. The antisense polynucleotides of the invention can form a duplex with the mRNA encoding a target protein and will disallow expression of the target protein.

A gene therapy agent refers to an agent that causes expression of a gene product in a target cell through introduction of a gene into the target cell followed by expression. An example of such a gene therapy agent would be a genetic construct that causes expression of a protein such as insulin when introduced into a cell. Alternatively a gene therapy agent can decrease expression of a gene in a target cell. An example of such a gene therapy agent would be the introduction of a polynucleic acid segment into a cell that would integrate into a target gene and disrupt expression of the gene. Examples of such agents include viruses and polynucleotides that are able to disrupt a gene through homologous recombination. Methods of introducing and disrupting genes within cells are well known to those of skill in the art.

Nucleotide and nucleoside analogues are well known on the art. Examples of such nucleoside analogs include but are not limited to CYTOVENE Roche Laboratories EPIVIR Glaxo Wellcome GEMZAR Lilly HIVID Roche Laboratories REBETRON Schering VIDEX Bristol Myers Squibb ZERIT Bristol Myers Squibb and ZOVIRAX Glaxo Wellcome . See 2001 Edition.

As used herein a peptide and a protein refer to polypeptides linear polymers of amino acids the difference between the terms peptide and protein largely being in the length of the polymer. In one embodiment the polypeptide can be an antibody. Examples of such antibodies include single chain antibodies chimeric antibodies monoclonal antibodies polyclonal antibodies antibody fragments Fab fragments IgA IgG IgM IgD IgE and humanized antibodies. In one embodiment the antibody can bind to a cell adhesion molecule such as a cadherin integrin or selectin. In another embodiment the antibody can bind to an extracellular matrix molecule such as collagen elastin fibronectin or laminin. In still another embodiment the antibody can bind to a receptor such as an adrenergic receptor B cell receptor complement receptor cholinergic receptor estrogen receptor insulin receptor low density lipoprotein receptor growth factor receptor or T cell receptor. Antibodies of the invention can also bind to platelet aggregation factors e.g. fibrinogen cell proliferation factors e.g. growth factors and cytokines and blood clotting factors e.g. fibrinogen . In another embodiment an antibody can be conjugated to an active agent such as a toxin or a radionuclide.

An anti cancer agent means an agent that either inhibits the growth of cancerous cells or causes the death of cancerous cells. Anti cancer agents include e.g. nucleotide and nucleoside analogs such as 2 chloro deoxyadenosine adjunct antineoplastic agents alkylating agents nitrogen mustards nitrosoureas antibiotics antimetabolites hormonal agonists antagonists androgens antiandrogens antiestrogens estrogen nitrogen mustard combinations gonadotropin releasing hotmone GNRH analogues progestrins immunomodulators miscellaneous antineoplastics photosensitizing agents and skin mucous membrane agents. See 2001 Edition.

An antimicrobial as used herein refers to a molecular entity that is effective as a therapeutic agent or as a protective agent against an infection by a microorganism which could be a bacterium a protozoan a fungus a virus or another pathogenic living organism. An antimicrobial may be an antibiotic effective against bacteria including aminoglycoside antibiotics such as gentamicin or streptomycin a cephalosporin such as cephalexin or cephtriaxone a carbacephem such as loracarbef a glycopeptide such as vancomycin a macrolide such as erythromycin a penicillin such as amoxicillin or ampicillin a polypeptide such as bacitracin or polymyxin B a quinolone such as ciprofloxacin a tetracycline such as oxytetracycline a sulfonamide or any other medically approved agent for treatment of bacterial infections. Alternatively the antimicrobial may be an antifungal agent such as ketoconazole miconazole or amphotericin B or an antiviral agent such as acyclovir or AZT.

Moreover the compounds e.g. analgesics anti inflammatory agents described herein can be formulated in a time release formulation for example in a composition that includes a slow release polymer. The tissue repair and or replacement filler may be prepared with carriers that will protect the compound against rapid release such as a controlled release formulation including implants and microencapsulated delivery systems. Biodegradable biocompatible polymers may be used e.g. ethylene vinyl acetate polyanhydrides polyglycolic acid collagen polyorthoesters polylactic acid and polylactic and polyglycolic copolymers PLG . Many methods for the preparation of such formulations are known to those skilled in the art.

In further embodiments the agent may be any enzyme. The agent may be a protein such as a degradation enzyme cytokine or cytokine inhibitor or a growth factor. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art combinations of agents may be used and these agents may be derived form a variety of sources synthetic and natural and may include recombinant methods of manufacture. The amount of bioactive agent in an implant in accordance with embodiments of the invention may be adjusted to achieve the desired dosage. In further embodiments the amount administered to the patient or the amount in the implant is between about 0.01 ng and about 300 mg of the active agent per milliliter of copolymer material or implant material . The composition or device could contain more or less depending upon the application for which the composition or device is intended and the required activity level of the selected agent. The agent can be contained within the composition to be administered or the implant in a number of methods known to those skilled in the art.

In further embodiments therapeutic agents include genetic therapeutic agents non genetic therapeutic agents and cells and can be negatively charged positively charged amphoteric or neutral. Therapeutic agents can be for example materials that are biologically active to treat physiological conditions pharmaceutically active compounds gene therapies nucleic acids with and without carrier vectors oligonucleotides gene vector systems DNA chimeras compacting agents e.g. DNA compacting agents viruses polymers hyaluronic acid proteins e.g. enzymes such as ribozymes immunologic species nonsteroidal anti inflammatory medications oral contraceptives progestins gonadotrophin releasing hormone agonists chemotherapeutic agents and radioactive species e.g. radioisotopes radioactive molecules . Non limiting examples of therapeutic agents include anti thrombogenic agents antioxidants angiogenic and anti angiogenic agents and factors anti proliferative agents e.g. agents capable of blocking smooth muscle cell proliferation calcium entry blockers and survival genes which protect against cell death.

Exemplary non genetic therapeutic agents include anti thrombotic agents such as heparin heparin derivatives urokinase and PPack dextrophenylalanine proline arginine chloromethylketone anti inflammatory agents such as dexamethasone prednisolone corticosterone budesonide estrogen sulfasalazine and mesalamine antineoplastic antiproliferative anti mitotic agents such as paclitaxel 5 fluorouracil cisplatin doxorubicin vinblastine vincristine epothilones endostatin angiostatin angiopeptin monoclonal antibodies capable of blocking smooth muscle cell proliferation and thymidine kinase inhibitors anesthetic agents such as lidocaine bupivacaine and ropivacaine anti coagulants such as D Phe Pro Arg chloromethyl ketone an RGD peptide containing compound heparin hirudin antithrombin compounds platelet receptor antagonists anti thrombin antibodies anti platelet receptor antibodies aspirin prostaglandin inhibitors platelet inhibitors and tick antiplatelet peptides vascular cell growth promoters such as growth factors transcriptional activators and translational promoters vascular cell growth inhibitors such as growth factor inhibitors growth factor receptor antagonists transcriptional repressors translational repressors replication inhibitors inhibitory antibodies antibodies directed against growth factors bifunctional molecules consisting of a growth factor and a cytotoxin bifunctional molecules consisting of an antibody and a cytotoxin protein kinase and tyrosine kinase inhibitors e.g. tyrphostins genistein quinoxalines prostacyclin analogs cholesterol lowering agents angiopoietins antimicrobial agents such as triclosan cephalosporins aminoglycosides and nitrofurantoin cytotoxic agents cytostatic agents and cell proliferation affectors vasodilating agents and agents that interfere with endogenous vasoactive mechanisms.

Exemplary genetic therapeutic agents include anti sense DNA and RNA DNA coding for anti sense RNA tRNA or rRNA to replace defective or deficient endogenous molecules angiogenic factors including growth factors such as acidic and basic fibroblast growth factors vascular endothelial growth factor epidermal growth factor transforming growth factor .alpha. and .beta. platelet derived endothelial growth factor platelet derived growth factor tumor necrosis factor a hepatocyte growth factor and insulin like growth factor cell cycle inhibitors including CD inhibitors thymidine kinase TK and other agents useful for interfering with cell proliferation and the family of bone morphogenic proteins BMP s including BMP2 BMP3 BMP4 BMP5 BMP6 Vgr 1 BMP7 OP1 BMP8 BMP9 BMP10 BM11 BMP12 BMP13 BMP14 BMP15 and BMP16. Currently preferred BMP s are any of BMP2 BMP3 BMP4 BMP5 BMP6 and BMP7. These dimeric proteins can be provided as homodimers heterodimers or combinations thereof alone or together with other molecules. Alternatively or additionally molecules capable of inducing an upstream or downstream effect of a BMP can be provided. Such molecules include any of the hedgehog proteins or the DNA s encoding them. Vectors of interest for delivery of genetic therapeutic agents include plasmids viral vectors such as adenovirus AV adenoassociated virus AAV and lentivirus and non viral vectors such as lipids liposomes and cationic lipids.

Cells include cells of human origin autologous or allogeneic including stem cells or from an animal source xenogeneic which can be genetically engineered if desired to deliver proteins of interest.

In further embodiments the invention relates to the administration or coadministration of a cytokine. This cytokine may be chosen from a group of cytokines or may include combinations of cytokines. Stem cell factor SCF and granulocyte colony stimulating factor G CSF are known by those skilled in the art as stimulating factors which cause the mobilization of stem cells into the blood stream Bianco et al 2001 Clutterbuck 1997 Kronenwett et al 2000 Laluppa et al 1997 Patchen et al 1998 . Stromal cell derived factor 1 has been shown to stimulate stem cell mobilization chemotactically while steel factor has both chemotactic and chemokinetic properties Caceres Cortes et al 2001 Jo et al 2000 Kim and Broxmeyer 1998 Ikuta et al 1991 . Vascular endothelial growth factor has been surmised to engage a paracrine loop that helps facilitate migration during mobilization Bautz et al 2000 Janowska Wieczorek et al 2001 . Macrophage colony stimulating factor and granulocyte macrophage stimulating factor have been shown to function in the same manner of SCF and G CSF by stimulating mobilization of stem cells. Interleukin 3 has also been shown to stimulate mobilization of stem cells and is especially potent in combination with other cytokines.

The cytokine can be administered via a vector that expresses the cytokine in vivo. A vector for in vivo expression can be a vector or cells or an expression system as cited in any document incorporated herein by reference or used in the art such as a viral vector e.g. an adenovirus poxvirus such as vaccinia canarypox virus MVA NYVAC ALVAC and the like lentivirus or a DNA plasmid vector and the cytokine can also be from in vitro expression via such a vector or cells or expression system or others such as a baculovirus expression system bacterial vectors such as and mammalian cells such as CHO cells. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 265 189 6 130 066 6 004 777 5 990 091 5 942 235 5 833 975. The cytokine compositions may lend themselves to administration by routes outside of those stated to be advantageous or preferred for stem cell preparations but cytokine compositions may also be advantageously administered by routes stated to be advantageous or preferred for stem cell preparations.

Further embodiments of the invention involve administration of a therapeutically effective dose or amount of a cytokine. An effective dose is an amount sufficient to effect a beneficial or desired clinical result. Said dose could be administered in one or more administrations. In a further embodiment the dose would be given over the course of about two or three days following the beginning of treatment. However the precise determination of what would be considered an effective dose may be based on factors individual to each patient including their size age size of the infarct the cytokine or combination of cytokines being administered and amount of time since damage. One skilled in the art specifically a physician or cardiologist would be able to determine a sufficient amount of cytokine that would constitute an effective dose without being subjected to undue experimentation.

The invention also involves the administration or coadministration of the therapeutically effective dose or amount of a cytokine being delivered by injection specifically subcutaneously or intravenously. A person skilled in the art will be aware that subcutaneous injection or intravenous delivery are extremely common and offer an effective method of delivering the specific dose in a manner which allows for timely uptake and circulation in the blood stream.

A further embodiment includes the administered cytokine stimulating the patient s stem cells and causing mobilization into the blood stream. As mentioned previously the given cytokines are well known to one skilled in the art for their ability to promote said mobilization. Advantageously once the stem cells have mobilized into the bloodstream they home to the damaged area of the heart as will become clear through the following examples. Further embodiments of the invention involve the stem cells migrating into the infarcted region and differentiating into myocytes smooth muscle cells and endothelial cells. It is known in the art that these types of cells must be present to restore both structural and functional integrity.

A further embodiment of the invention includes administering an effective amount of one or more cytokines to the infarcted region. An effective dose is an amount sufficient to effect a beneficial or desired clinical result. Said dose could be administered in one or more administrations. However the precise determination of what would be considered an effective dose may be based on factors individual to each patient including their size age size of the infarct the cytokine or combination of cytokines being administered and amount of time since damage. Persons skilled in the art specifically a physician or cardiologist would be able to determine a sufficient amount of cytokine that would constitute an effective dose without being subjected to undue experimentation.

A still further embodiment of the invention includes administering or coadministering an effective amount of one or more cytokines to the heart by injection. Preferably the cytokines are delivered to the infarcted region or to the area bordering the infarcted region. As one skilled in the art would be aware the infarcted area is visible grossly allowing this specific placement of cytokines to be possible.

The cytokines are advantageously administered by injection for example by a intramyocardial injection. As a person skilled in the art would be aware this is a further method of delivery for cytokines as the heart is a functioning muscle. Injection of the cytokines into the heart ensures that they will not be lost due to the contracting movements of the heart. In a further aspect of the invention the cytokines are administered by injection transendocardially or trans epicardially. This preferred embodiment allows the cytokines to penetrate the protective surrounding membrane necessitated by the embodiment in which the cytokines are injected intramyocardially. A further embodiment of the invention includes use of a catheter based approach to deliver the trans endocardial injection. The use of a catheter precludes more invasive methods of delivery wherein the opening of the chest cavity would be necessitated. As one skilled in the art is aware optimum time of recovery would be allowed by the more minimally invasive procedure which as outlined here includes a catheter approach.

A further embodiment of the invention includes the delivery of the cytokines by a single administration. A still further embodiment of the invention includes multiple administrations of the same dosage of cytokines to the heart. A still further embodiment of the invention includes administration of multiple doses of the cytokines to the heart such that a gradient is formed.

A still further embodiment of the invention includes the stimulation migration proliferation and or differentiation of the resident cardiac stem cells. Another embodiment of the invention includes the proliferation of the differentiated cells and the formation of the cells into cardiac structures including coronary arteries arterioles capillaries and myocardium. As one skilled in the art is aware all of these structures are important for proper function in the heart. It has been shown in the literature that implantation of cells including endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells will allow for the implanted cells to live within the infarcted region however they do not form the necessary structures to enable the heart to regain full functionality. The ability to restore both functional and structural integrity or better functional and structural integrity than previously achieved in the art is yet another aspect of this invention.

It is a further embodiment in the practice of the invention to utilize both the administration of stem cells and that of a cytokine to ensure the most effective method of repairing damaged myocardium.

Stem cells employed in the invention are advantageously selected to be lineage negative. The term lineage negative is known to one skilled in the art as meaning the cell does not express antigens characteristic of specific cell lineages. And it is advantageous that the lineage negative stem cells are selected to be c kit positive. The term c kit is known to one skilled in the art as being a receptor which is known to be present on the surface of stem cells and which is routinely utilized in the process of identifying and separating stem cells from other surrounding cells.

In certain embodiments a therapeutically effective dose of stem cells is applied delivered or administered to the heart or implanted into the heart. An effective dose or amount is an amount sufficient to effect a beneficial or desired clinical result. Said dose could be administered in one or more administrations. However the precise determination of what would be considered an effective dose may be based on factors individual to each patient including their size age size of the infarct and amount of time since damage. Persons skilled in the art specifically a physician or cardiologist would be able to determine the number and type or types of stem cells that would constitute an effective dose without being subjected to undue experimentation from this disclosure and the knowledge in the art and in this regard and in general in regard to preparing formulations and administering formulations or components thereof. The stem cells are advantageously bone marrow or are cardiac stem cells and even more advantageously the stem cells are adult bone marrow hematopoietic stem cells or adult cardiac stem cells or a combination thereof or a combination of cardiac stem cells such as adult cardiac stem cells and another type of stem cell such as another type of adult stem cells.

In another aspect of the invention the stem cells are delivered to the heart specifically to the border area of the infarct. As persons skilled in the art would be aware the infarcted area is visible grossly allowing this specific placement of stem cells to be possible.

The stem cells are advantageously administered by injection specifically an intramyocardial injection. As one skilled in the art would be aware this is the preferred method of delivery for stem cells as the heart is a functioning muscle. Injection of the stem cells into the heart ensures that they will not be lost due to the contracting movements of the heart. In other aspects of the invention the stem cells are administered by injection transendocardially or trans epicardially. This further embodiment allows the stem cells to penetrate the protective surrounding membrane necessitated by the embodiment in which the cells are injected intramyocardially.

A further embodiment of the invention includes use of a catheter based approach to deliver the trans endocardial injection. The use of a catheter precludes more invasive methods of delivery wherein the opening of the chest cavity would be necessitated. As one skilled in the art is aware optimum time of recovery would be allowed by the more minimally invasive procedure which as outlined here includes a catheter approach.

The composition may include or be administered in conjunction with an analgesic. The analgesic may be included in the tissue repair and or replacement filler composition or administered sequentially concurrently or subsequently with the administration of the tissue repair and or replacement filler composition. Analgesics that may be used in the present invention include but are not limited to acetaminophen TYLENOL amitriptyline carbamazepine codeine TYLENOL 2 3 4 dihydromorphine fentanyl patch DURAGESIC Flupirtine fluriprofen gabapentin hydrocodone APAP VICODIN hydromorphone PALLADONE ibuprofen ketoprofen morphine MS CONTIN oxycodone PERCOCET OXYCONTIN PERCODAN pentazocine TALWIN NX pethidine phenacetin pregabalin propoeylphene DARVON salicylamide aspirin tramadol ULTRAM tramadol APAP ULTRACET and voltaren.

The composition may include or be administered in conjunction with a local anesthetic. The local anesthetic may be included in the composition or administered sequentially concurrently or subsequently with the administration of the tissue repair and or replacement filler composition. Local anesthetic that may be used in the present invention include but are not limited to amethocaine articaine benzocaine bupivacaine CARBOCAINE mepivacaine cocaine cinchocaine chloroprocaine cyclomethycaine dibucaine dimethocaine EMLA eutectic mixture of lidocaine and prilocaine etidocaine larocaine levobupivacaine lidocaine lignocaine NOVOCAINE procaine piperocaine POLOCAINE mepivacaine prilocaine proparacaine propoxycaine ropivacaine saxitoxin tetracaine tetrodotoxin and trimecaine.

The composition may include or be administered in conjunction with an anti inflammatory agent. The anti inflammatory agent may be included in the composition or administered sequentially concurrently or subsequently with the administration of the tissue repair and or replacement filler composition. Anti inflammatory agents such as non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs are classified into groups based on their chemical structure 1 propionic acid derivatives 2 acetic acid derivatives 3 enolic acid derivatives 4 fenamic acid derivatives and 5 selective COX 2 inhibitors. Any member of these classes may be used as an anti inflammatory agent. Exemplary non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs that may be used in the present invention include but are not limited to acetaminophen TYLENOL azapropazone diclofenac diflunisal etodolac fenbufen fenoprofen flurbiprofen ibuprofen MOTRIN indomethacin indometacin ketoprofen ketorolac mefenamic meloxicam nabumetone naproxen phenylbutazone piroxicam salicylates e.g. acetylsalicylic acid Aspirin amoxiprin benorylate benorilate choline magnesium salicylate DIFLUNISAL ethenzamide faislamine methyl salicylate magnesium salicylate salicyl salicylate and salicylamide sulindac tenoxicam tiaprofenic acid and tolfenamic acid.

The present invention contemplates the use of stem cells in combination with the copolymer of the invention. The stem cells may be included in the composition or administered sequentially concurrently or subsequently with the administration of the composition in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. In further embodiments methods and or pharmaceutical compositions use a therapeutically effective amount of somatic stem cells alone or in combination with a cytokine such as a cytokine selected from the group consisting of stem cell factor SCF granulocyte colony stimulating factor G CSF granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF stromal cell derived factor 1 steel factor vascular endothelial growth factor macrophage colony stimulating factor granulocyte macrophage stimulating factor or Interleukin 3 or any cytokine capable of the stimulating and or mobilizing stem cells. Cytokines may be administered alone or in combination of with any other cytokine capable of the stimulation and or mobilization of stem cells the maintenance of early and late hematopoiesis see below the activation of monocytes see below macrophage monocyte proliferation differentiation motility and survival see below and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient including combinations thereof . The stem cells are advantageously adult stem cells such as hematopoietic or cardiac stem cells or a combination thereof or a combination of cardiac stem cells and any other type of stem cells.

The implanting depositing administering or causing of implanting or depositing or administering of stem cells such as adult stem cells for instance hematopoietic or cardiac stem cells or a combination thereof or any combination of cardiac stem cells e.g. adult cardiac stem cells and stem cells of another type of e.g. adult stem cells of another type alone or with a cytokine such as a cytokine selected from the group consisting of stem cell factor SCF granulocyte colony stimulating factor G CSF granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF stromal cell derived factor 1 steel factor vascular endothelial growth factor macrophage colony stimulating factor granulocyte macrophage stimulating factor or Interleukin 3 or any cytokine capable of the stimulating and or mobilizing stem cells wherein with a cytokine . . . can include sequential implanting depositing administering or causing of implanting or depositing or administering of the stem cells and the cytokine or the co implanting co depositing or co administering or causing of co implanting or co depositing or co administering or the simultaneous implanting depositing administering or causing of implanting or depositing or administering of the stem cells and the cytokine in circulatory tissue or muscle tissue or circulatory muscle tissue e.g. cardiac tissue such as the heart or blood vessels e.g. veins arteries that go to or come from the heart such as veins and arteries directly connected or attached or flowing into the heart for instance the aorta. This implanting depositing or administering or causing of implanting depositing or administering can be in conjunction with grafts. Such implanting depositing or administering or causing of implanting depositing or administering is advantageously employed in the treatment or therapy or prevention of cardiac conditions such as to treat areas of weakness or scarring in the heart or prevent the occurrence or further occurrence of such areas or to treat conditions which cause or irritate such areas for instance myocardial infarction or ischemia or other e.g. genetic conditions that impart weakness or scarring to the heart see also cardiac conditions mentioned infra .

Further embodiments include combinations with biocompatible materials or polymers of the invention involving the use of such stem cells alone or in combination with cytokine s . Further embodiments include medicaments for use in treatment therapy or prevention comprising the stem cells and optionally the cytokine s . Further embodiments include kits comprising the stem cells and optionally the cytokine s for formulations for use in such treatment therapy or prevention. Further embodiments include combinations with compositions comprising such stem cells and optionally at least one cytokine and kits for preparing such compositions. Further embodiments include methods of making the kits and compositions described herein. Further embodiments include methods of implanting or depositing stem cells or causing the implanting or depositing of stem cells.

The composition may be produced by a method comprising combining the components described herein. For example the method of manufacture may comprise admixing a pliable biocompatible material with a physiologically acceptable suspending agent to form a composition. The pliable biocompatible material may be admixed with a physiologically acceptable suspending agent prior to administration including immediately prior to administration. For example the pliable biocompatible material may be admixed with a physiologically acceptable suspending agent in a mixing vessel or even the syringe and then immediately administered to the patient.

The composition may be calibrated to approximate the functional properties of the tissue that has been damaged. For example the relative proportion of a pliable biocompatible material and the physiological acceptable suspending agent may be determined to achieve mechanical properties similar to those of the tissue that has been damaged.

The physiological acceptable suspending agent may be added to a pliable biocompatible material until a desired thickness viscosity or consistency is reached. The mixing ratio of the components of the suspending agent may be chosen according to the needs and in particular according to the size of the syringe used for the injection. The solid particles used according to the present invention the particles may be suspended or slurried in a physiological acceptable suspending agent.

The present invention provides a variety techniques for ameliorating the effects of tissue damage comprising administration of an effective amount of a composition. It is intended that the method described herein can be applied for restoring totally or partly the physical functions of atrophic damaged deteriorated or degenerated tissue with an injectable composition by injecting the composition into the tissue.

The compositions described herein may be used in a method of augmenting soft tissue comprising administration of a tissue repair and or replacement filler composition. The compositions described herein may also be used in a method for the stimulation of collagen production fibroblast production fibrocyte production or any combination thereof comprising administration of a composition according to various embodiments of the present invention. The stimulation of collagen production fibroblast production fibrocyte production or any combination thereof may be beneath the tissue defect by administration of a composition.

The methods described herein provides long term reduction of a tissue repair and or replacement condition of a duration of at least about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 or 10 years. The duration may be at least about 1 5 3 5 or 1 10 years. The duration may also be at least about 10 years or longer.

The tissue repair and or replacement filler composition may be administered by injecting from a needle syringe system. A 34 33 32 31 30 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 20 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 or 7 gauge needle may be used. A standard length needle 2 3 cm may be used. For example a 30 27 or 26 gauge needle of 0.5 inch length may be used. Any devices that enable one to percutaneously administer the solution to the site of the damaged tissue may be used. For example the composition may be injected using any devices designed for administering injectable fillers.

If required a second injection of the composition may be administered after a period of at least about 1 4 weeks to 1 4 months. This additive effect may be used to achieve the desired result. More severely damaged tissue may require a second third and fourth injection of the composition.

Side effects of superficial injection may be treated with corticosteroid cream or intratissue repair and or replacement corticosteroid injections. Dermabrasion will remove granules of microbeads or microspheres. If microbeads or microspheres are used the microbeads or microspheres can be spread around through massage within a day or two after the injection to even the distribution.

A colored dye may be included in the composition to allow a clinician to monitor the spread of the composition and its administration. Generally the injection site may be evenly massaged and slight pressure may be applied to smooth out any detected lumps. Following massaging this injection procedure consistently resulted in having the dye spreading in the entire tisssue without dispersing into the other tissues.

Tissue repair and or replacement must strike a balance between achieving long term results minimizing side effects or complications of the treatment procedure and the host tissue reaction thereto and decreasing the recurrence of treatment to achieve the intended results.

The present invention provides methods for treating tissue damage based on and or resulting from a variety of conditions including but not limited to birth defects cosmetic surgical procedures skin conditions orthopedic injuries vocal cord paralysis and urinary incontinence. The methods described herein also may provide long term tissue repair and or replacement and provide relief from pain inflammation and other conditions.

The present invention provides methods for treating a patient with pain including neuropathic pain. The neuropathic pain may be due to a variety of etiologies include but are not limited to diabetic neuropathy nerve injury nerve tract injury peripheral neuropathy chemotherapy induced neuropathy chemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy HIV treatment induced neuropathy HIV treatment induced neuralgia neuralgia polyneuropathy mononeuropathy mononeuritis multiplex autonomic neuropathy symmetrical peripheral neuropathy radiculopathy large fiber peripheral neuropathy small fiber peripheral neuropathy and idiopathic neuropathic pain.

The present invention still further provides compositions and methods for treating a tissue repair and or replacement deformity that requires re contouring such as a small tissue defect e.g. after animal bite s or a deformity related to trauma where the deformity is cosmetically unappealing. In a further embodiment of the method of augmenting soft tissue the augmentation may be after plastic surgery to achieve symmetry or a desired result. The methods described herein may also be used in treating pain or discomfort that occurs after treatment such as surgery or physical therapy.

In accordance with further embodiments of the present invention the present invention contemplates the use of any of the compositions described herein with other suitable compositions including as mixtures or as separately administered substances as would be recognized by persons skilled in the art based upon the guidance provided herein.

According to further embodiments the present invention provides medical devices or a materials for use in conjunction with suitable medical devices including implantable and non implantable medical devices as would be understood by persons skilled in the art.

An embodiment of current invention provides an implantable device or material comprising a tissue e.g. bone cartilage soft tissue etc. substitute material and a method and system for deploying the implantable device or material. In general the implantable device of this invention is generally fabricated from one or more biocompatible materials e.g. polymer metal ceramic that will act to treat the wound and serve as a scaffold for the in growth of tissue. According to certain embodiments of the present invention an apparatus for tissue repair or replacement comprises an implantable device coated or embedded with a composition comprising an unsubstituted acrylate substituted acrylate copolymer. According to a further embodiment the copolymer is a phenylethyl acrylate phenylethyl methacrylate copolymer.

The implant may contain other materials for assisting in the growth of cells and act as a carrier for other constituents that act to beneficially treat the patient in which it is implanted. Some embodiments of the invention also incorporate cells or other biological constituents for providing the basic building blocks for tissue regeneration. Any suitable cells or other biological constituents as would be known to persons skilled in the art may be used or incorporated into embodiments of the present invention.

Any suitable material can be used to construct the implant or a portion thereof. Biocompatible polymers such as the copolymer described herein alone or incombination with other polymers for example collagen chitosan alginate polylactide co glycolide polyurethane polyethylene are used in this invention in accordance with various embodiments. Collagen and most specifically native fibrous collagen may be used in combination with the copolymer in accordance with an embodiment. Additionally biocompatible resorbable synthetic polymers may be used in accordance with certain embodiments. However virtually any biodegradable and or biocompatible material may be used in combination according to various embodiments.

According to various embodiments the medical implant includes non biological implant material which is coated with or embedded with tissue producing cells such as tissue producing cells. As used herein the phrase non biological refers to any material which does not contain living cells. The tissue producing cells function to reduce a physiological response to the implant in the subject. The physiological response may be for example an immune response an inflammatory response encapsulation ossification calcification or infection. To reduce such a physiological response the tissue producing cells utilized by this aspect of the present invention are preferably derived from the subject or a tissue source which is syngeneic with respect to the subject. It will be appreciated however that other tissue sources allogeneic xenogeneic may also be used provided measures are taken to substantially reduce the immunogenicity of tissue producing cells harvested from such sources.

In order to facilitate increased adherence of the tissue producing cells to the device an intermediate layer applied to the device may be employed. Although many materials may be useful in construction of this intermediate layer will be known to those of ordinary skill in the art fibronectin silicone and combinations thereof have been found to be especially well suited for use in the context of the claimed device.

In further embodiments the invention provides a medical implant which does not elicit a physiological response following implantation thus traversing problems associated with rejection of implants and as such prolonging the service life of such an implant within the subject s body.

According to certain embodiments the apparatus may further comprise a proteoglycan. The proteoglycan may be aggrecan decorin biglycan fibromodulin lumican keratocan epiphycan or osteoglycin or combinations thereof. The apparatus may further comprise an anti inflammatory agent. The anti inflammatory agent may be a non steroidal anti inflammatory drug NSAID . The anti inflammatory agent may be acetaminophen azapropazone diclofenac diflunisal etodolac fenbufen fenoprofen flurbiprofen ibuprofen indomethacin ketoprofen ketorolac mefenamic meloxicam nabumetone naproxen phenylbutazone piroxicam a salicylate sulindac tenoxicam tiaprofenic acid or tolfenamic acid or combinations thereof. The salicylate may be acetylsalicylic acid amoxiprin benorylate choline magnesium salicylate ethenzamide faislamine methyl salicylate magnesium salicylate salicyl salicylate or salicylamide. The apparatus may further include administering an analgesic. The analgesic may be acetaminophen amitriptyline carbamazepine codeine dihydromorphine fentanyl patch Flupirtine fluriprofen gabapentin hydrocodone acetaminophen hydromorphone ibuprofen ketoprofen morphine oxycodone pentazocine pethidine phenacetin pregabalin propoeylphene salicylamide tramadol tramadol acetaminophen or voltaren. The apparatus may further involve the use of a local anesthetic. The local anesthetic may be amethocaine articaine benzocaine bupivacaine mepivacaine cocaine cinchocaine chloroprocaine cyclomethycaine dibucaine dimethocaine EMLA eutectic mixture of lidocaine and prilocaine etidocaine larocaine levobupivacaine lidocaine lignocaine procaine piperocaine prilocaine proparacaine propoxycaine ropivacaine saxitoxin tetracaine tetrodotoxin or trimecaine.

Further embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to the following examples. The examples contained herein are offered by way of illustration and not intended in any way to limit the scope of the present invention. Other suitable modifications and adaptations as would be known to those skilled in the art based upon the guidance provided herein are within the spirit and scope of the embodiments.

Twenty patients presenting with deep horizontal forehead lines creases or wrinkles are treated with injections of alloplastic injectable suspension for use as a dermal filler comprising acrylate methacrylate A M copolymer powder or non porous microbeads or microspheres and a cross linked sodium hyaluronate or non crosslinked sodium hyaluronate .

Light topical anesthetic is applied to the skin proximal to the horizontal forehead lines creases or wrinkles to alleviate any discomfort during injection. A 30 27 or 26 gauge needle of a 0.5 inch length is used. The syringe contains 0.5 cc of the suspended A M copolymer. Needle patency is verified by gently squeezing some of the suspended A M copolymer out of the needle tip. The needle is inserted into the skin beneath and along the line of the forehead line crease or wrinkle with constant thumb pressure applied on the syringe. The injection is places deep intradermally into the reticular dermis just above the junction between the dermis and the subcutaneous fat. Resistance from the dermis will be experienced however if the needle is placed too deep there will be little resistance from the fatty tissue.

Injection occurs in a tunneling technique wherein the needle is moved back and forth horizontally just beneath the forehead line crease or wrinkle such that the injection occurs simultaneously with withdrawal of the needle. The gray needle should not show through the skin of the line. If injected superficially intradermally the microbeads or microspheres will form small granules in a line akin to a strand of pearls within the line.

Evenly massage with a fingertip the injected and apply slight pressure to smooth out any detected lumps. Vigorous massage is not advisable as it will spread the injected suspended A M copolymer deeper into the tissue and result in loss of the intended effect.

In about three months the diminished thickness of the dermis recovers its previous thickness. The thickness recovery may be determined mostly through the use of before and after photos thus the time period may vary from patient to patient.

A second injection of the suspended A M copolymer may be placed on top of the first injection layer after a period of four weeks to four months. This additive effect may be used to achieve the desired result. Deeper forehead lines may require a second third and fourth injection of the suspended A M copolymer.

An amount of 0.5 cc of the suspended A M copolymer will suffice for injection beneath a forehead line crease or wrinkle for example a frontal furrow. A second injection if needed for example to even the distribution of the first injected and implanted microbeads or microspheres will inject about the same amount of the suspended A M copolymer or less depending on the tissue response and the patient s desired result.

Side effects of superficial injection are treated with corticosteroid cream or intradermal corticosteroid injections. Dermabrasion will remove intradermal granules of microbeads or microspheres. Because of the inert nature of the copolymer it is not expected to form granules in powder form. If microbeads or microspheres are used the microbeads or microspheres can be spread around through massage within a day or two after the injection to even the distribution. Therefore clumping is not expected since it results if there is an inflammatory reaction which aggregates the copolymer microbeads or microspheres together.

Within four weeks to four months of the last injection of the suspended A M copolymer the skin comprising the forehead line crease or wrinkle will be raised to the same level as the surrounding skin such that the appearance of the forehead line crease or wrinkle will be diminished or eliminated. The decrease of appearance or removal forehead line crease or wrinkle is expected to be permanent such as to last at least 18 months with no palpability or visibility and from about five to about ten years. Muscle movement over a time period of from about five to about ten years may cause the injected A M copolymer to deepen by 1 10 of a millimeter. If a line crease or wrinkle appears during this time an injection of the suspended A M copolymer is placed on top of the original or last if more than one were injected injection of powder microbeads or microspheres.

Glabellar frown lines form between the eyebrows in an almost vertical position proximal to each eyebrow. To test the decrease of the appearance of glabellar frown lines or eliminate them twenty patients presenting with moderate or deep frown lines between the eyebrows are treated with an injection of alloplastic injectable suspension for use as a dermal filler comprising acrylate methacrylate A M copolymer powder or non porous microbeads or microspheres and a buffered physiological solution or cross linked sodium hyaluronate non crosslinked sodium hyaluronate or collagen as the site of the glabellar frown lines in accordance with the procedure described in Example 1.

An injection of 0.5 cc of the suspended A M copolymer will suffice to treat both glabellar frown lines. The dermis is generally thick and the connective tissue beneath the glabellar frown lines provides good support for the injected suspended A M copolymer. The injection should not be placed too far caudally such as not at the lower or tail end of the respective glabellar frown line as a lump may form. If deep lines exist at the glabellar frown lines treatment is repeated as described above. A thicker dermis beneath the glabellar frown line permits intradermal injection without the above described side effects.

Within four weeks to four months of the last injection of the suspended A M copolymer the skin comprising glabellar frown line will be raised to the same level as the surrounding skin such that the appearance of the previously existing glabellar frown lines will be diminished or eliminated. The decrease of appearance or removal of glabellar frown lines is expected to be permanent such as to last at least 18 months with no palpability or visibility and from about five to about ten years. Muscle movement over a time period of from about five to about ten years may cause the injected A M copolymer to deepen by 1 10 of a millimeter. If a glabellar frown line appears during this time an injection of the suspended A M copolymer is placed on top of the original or last if more than one were injected injection of powder microbeads or microspheres.

Nasolabial folds or smile lines extend from the corners of the nose around the sides of mouth and down to the chin. To test the decrease of the appearance of nasolabial folds or eliminate them twenty patients presenting with moderate to deep nasolabial folds are treated by injection of alloplastic injectable suspension for use as a dermal filler comprising acrylate methacrylate A M copolymer powder or non porous microbeads or microspheres and a buffered physiological solution or cross linked sodium hyaluronate non crosslinked sodium hyaluronate or collagen as the site of the nasolabial folds in accordance with the procedure described in Example 1 except that the injections are administered parallel and medially at the middle to the respective fold. During the first three days the injected A M suspension may be moved laterally to the side by movement of the facial muscles. Accordingly the injection is administered directly beneath and 1 2 mm medially to the crease.

In patients with thin skin the injection of the suspended A M copolymer must not be too superficial. Otherwise side effects such as erythema such as reddening. will develop at the injection site and the A M microbeads or microspheres will be visible as granules.

An injection of 0.5 cc of the suspended A M copolymer will suffice to treat one nasolabial fold. Therefore treatment of both nasolabial folds will require two syringes each with 0.5 cc the suspended A M copolymer. Nasolabial folds generally will require a second treatment with an injection of the alloplastic injectable suspension for use as a dermal filler comprising A M copolymer powder or non porous microbeads or microspheres and a buffered physiological solution.

Within four weeks to four months of the last injection of the suspended A M copolymer the skin comprising the respective nasolabial fold will be raised to the same level as the surrounding skin such that the appearance of the previously existing nasolabial fold will be diminished or eliminated. The decrease of appearance or removal of the nasolabial folds is expected to be permanent such as to last at least 18 months with no palpability or visibility and from about five to about ten years. Muscle movement over a time period of from about five to about ten years may cause the injected A M copolymer to deepen by 1 10 of a millimeter. If a nasolabial fold glabellar appears during this time an injection of the suspended A M copolymer is placed on top of the original or last if more than one were injected injection of powder microbeads or microspheres followed by a second treatment three to four months after the first repeat treatment.

Twenty patients presenting with either shallow mildly depressed or deep rolling scars such as having smooth edges which appear similar to rolling hills or boxcar scars such as having a cross section akin to a box car are treated by injection of alloplastic injectable suspension for use as a dermal filler comprising acrylate methacrylate A M copolymer powder or non porous microbeads or microspheres and a buffered physiological solution or cross linked sodium hyaluronate non crosslinked sodium hyaluronate or collagen in accordance with the procedure described in Example 1 except that the treatment of the rolling acne scars is by injection of the suspension of the A M copolymer from a distance of 5 to 10 mm such as such distance away from the scar and treatment of boxcar acne scars is by injection of the suspension of the A M copolymer perpendicularly downward into the center of the scar.

The suspension of the A M copolymer is implanted as superficially as possible because blanching of the darkened scars is desired. Blanching may be achieved by moving the injected suspension of the A M copolymer with the fingernail.

Fresh scars should never be treated because treatment will be ineffective and the scar may exacerbated.

Scars which appear to look like ice picks may be treated as the aforementioned scars but must be pre treated before injection of the suspension of the A M copolymer. Pre treatment may involve punching and suturing or subcising with an appropriate blade or needle at a depth of about 1 mm. In contrast to the rolling and boxcar scars thusly pretreated ice pick scars are filled with the suspension of the A M copolymer within 3 to 8 days of pre treatment upon decreased swelling and firm closing of the incision wound.

An injection of less than 0.1 cc of the suspended A M copolymer will suffice to treat an acne scar. Acne scars may require a second treatment with an injection of the alloplastic injectable suspension for use as a dermal filler comprising A M copolymer powder or non porous microbeads or microspheres and a buffered physiological solution or cross linked sodium hyaluronate non crosslinked sodium hyaluronate or collagen may achieve blanching of the scar in addition to the volume fill.

Within four weeks to four months of the last injection of the suspended A M copolymer the skin comprising the respective acne scar will be raised to the same level as the surrounding skin such that the appearance of the previously existing acne scar will be diminished or eliminated. The decrease of appearance or removal of the acne scar is expected to be permanent such as to last at least 18 months with no palpability or visibility and from about five to about ten years. If acne scars re appear as darkened areas of the skin with a depression of the skin of at least a shallow rolling scar the scar is treated with an injection of the suspended A M copolymer administered in the same manner as described above for the respective type of acne scar and placed on top of the original or last if more than one were injected injection of powder microbeads or microspheres. If the recurring appearance of the scar is not aesthetically pleasing a second treatment of the reappeared scar may follow three to four months after the first repeat treatment.

Twenty patients presenting with either shallow mildly depressed or deep surgery scars or trauma scars for example from a cut with a sharp object either accidental or self inflicted are treated by injection of alloplastic injectable suspension for use as a dermal filler comprising acrylate methacrylate A M copolymer powder or non porous microbeads or microspheres and a buffered physiological solution or cross linked sodium hyaluronate non crosslinked sodium hyaluronate or collagen as the site of the surgery scars or trauma scars in accordance with the procedure described in Example 1. Deeper injection site such as subcutaneous tissue and periostial tissue may be needed depending on the severity of the scar. Larger amounts of the suspension will be needed to ameliorate the cosmetic deformities in these cases. These cases may require more injections than wrinkles to titrate the desired effect.

An injection of 0.1 cc or more of the suspended AIM copolymer will suffice to treat a surgical scar or trauma scar. Such scars especially deep ones may require a second treatment with an injection of the alloplastic injectable suspension for use as a dermal filler comprising A M copolymer powder or non porous microbeads or microspheres and a buffered physiological solution to achieve filling and possible blanching of the scar.

Within four weeks to four months of the last injection of the suspended A M copolymer the skin comprising the surgical scar or trauma scar will be raised to the same level as the surrounding skin such that the appearance of the previously existing surgical scar or trauma scar will be diminished or eliminated. The decrease of appearance or removal of the surgical scar or trauma scar is expected to be permanent such as to last at least 18 months with no palpability or visibility and from about five to about ten years. If a surgical scar or trauma scar re appears the scar is treated with an injection of the suspended A M copolymer administered in the same manner as described above for the initial treatment and is placed on top of the original or last if more than one were injected injection of powder microbeads or microspheres. If the recurring appearance of the scar is not aesthetically pleasing a second treatment of the reappeared scar may follow three to four months after the first repeat treatment.

Twenty patients presenting with single crow s feet one on each sides but not multiple crow s feet are treated by injection of alloplastic injectable suspension for use as a dermal filler comprising acrylate methacrylate A M copolymer powder or non porous microbeads or microspheres and a buffered physiological solution or cross linked sodium hyaluronate non crosslinked sodium hyaluronate or collagen as the site of the single crow s feet in accordance with the procedure described in Example 1. The area where crow s feet form has thinner epidermis and dermis. Therefore a smaller amount of the alloplastic injectable suspension may be injected.

An injection of 0.05 cc to 0.2 cc of the suspended A M copolymer will suffice to treat a single crow s feet. Deep single crow s feet may require a second treatment with an injection of the alloplastic injectable suspension for use as a dermal filler comprising A M copolymer powder or non porous microbeads or microspheres and a buffered physiological solution to achieve filling of the single crow s feet.

Within four weeks to four months of the last injection of the suspended A M copolymer the skin comprising the single crow s feet will be raised to the same level as the surrounding skin such that the appearance of the previously existing single crow s feet will be diminished or eliminated. The decrease of appearance or removal of the single crow s feet is expected to be permanent such as to last at least 18 months with no palpability or visibility and from about five to about ten years. If a single crow s feet re appears as a result of muscle movement over time the single crow s feet is treated with an injection of the suspended A M copolymer administered in the same manner as described above for the initial treatment and is placed on top of the original or last if more than one were injected injection of powder microbeads or microspheres. If the recurring appearance of the single crow s feet is not aesthetically pleasing a second treatment of the reappeared scar may follow three to four months after the first repeat treatment.

Skin defects besides the aforementioned conditions are treated in accordance with the procedures described in Example 1 and modified as needed by one of skill to effect the desired treatment.

The described method of treatment may be used for deformities that require re contouring such as of a small tissue defect e.g. after animal bite s deformities related to trauma where the deformity is cosmetically unappealing or for augmentation after plastic surgery to achieve symmetry or a desired result.

The patient is monitored for the development. If a pain continues or reoccurs appears during this time the patient may be administered a subsequent effective amount of tissue repair and or replacement filler composition. The patient is monitored and treated according to the lessening of the symptoms and or the development of side effects.

Six male Sprague Dawley rats 250 275 g cared for in accordance with the standards defined in Principles of laboratory animal care NIH publication No. 86 23 revised 1985 are anesthetized with intramuscular injections of Ketamine 100 mg kg and Xylazine 5 mg kg . Antibiotic prophylaxis is provided by subcutaneous injection of Cefazolin 22 mg kg 30 minutes before surgery and then daily for a total of seven days. Then the upper extremities are shaved aseptically prepped and draped.

Surgical incisions of 2 cm are performed over the dorsal aspects of the shoulder and scapula bilaterally. Bilateral full thickness defects are created 1 mm proximal to the supraspinatus tendon insertion with a no. 15 scalpel blade without removal of tendon substance. The defects in both sides are then repaired to the insertion site on the greater tuberosity with two 5 0 Prolene Ethicon Inc. Somerville N.J. USA sutures through transosseous tunnels. On the control side no further repair is made. On the experimental side the repair is additionally reinforced by oversewing a patch comprising a copolymer of phenylethyl acrylate and phenylethyl methacrylate to form a layered structure of patch and tendon.

The deltoid muscle is re approximated in both shoulders with interrupted 4 0 Vicryl Ethicon suture and the skin is closed with 3 0 Monocryl Ethicon .

Animals are sacrificed six weeks post operatively by carbon dioxide inhalation. Both shoulders are evaluated macroscopically for gross evidence of healing suture encapsulation loose bodies and inflammatory reactions. The supraspinatus tendon and proximal humerus are removed and fixed in 10 neutral buffered formalin.

Specimens are decalcified before embedding in paraffin. Slides are stained with hematoxylin and eosin. Sections are stained for collagen and polarization microscopy. Slides containing sections are placed in xylene at 37 C. for 12 hours to remove paraffin hydrated in a series of ethanol of decreasing concentration between 100 and 50 and then finally placed in water. Prior to staining with the Picrosirius red solution dewaxed and hydrated sections are treated at 37 C for 18 hours in 2 mg bovine testicular hyaluronidase in 1 ml of 0.1 M phosphate fbuffer at pH 6.0 to remove chondroitin sulfate molecules which can mask the cationic binding sites of the collagen for polyanionic Sirius red molecules. Sections are then stained for 30 minutes in a solution of 0.1 Sirius red F3B Polysciences Warringto Pa. USA dissolved in saturated picric acid. Section are dehydrated in absolute ethanol for 9 minutes three changes of 3 minutes each cleared in a 1 1 mixture of absolute ethanol and xylene for 3 minutes and in xylene for 9 minutes 3 changes for 3 minutes each before cover slips are mounted. Stained sections are analyzed with a Nikon polarization microscope.

To quantify soft tissue ingrowth into the patch microscopic images are digitized for histomorphometric analysis.

Gross inspection at time of retrieval is expected to reveal good integration of the patch into the tendon and bone with no gross inflammatory changes.

Although the invention has been described in some detail by way of illustration and example for purposes of clarity of understanding it will be obvious that certain changes and modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. Modifications of the above described modes for carrying out the invention that are obvious to persons of skill in medicine pharmacology and or related fields are intended to be within the scope of the following claims. All patents U.S. and foreign publications e.g. Non Patent Literature patent application publications and patent applications cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

