---

title: Portable ultrafine particle sizer (PUPS) apparatus
abstract: The Portable Ultrafine Particle Sizer (PUPS) invention is provided. The PUPS is an instrument which can measure particle number concentration for particle sizes under 200 nanometers in-situ. The PUPS is a compact design for quick mounting on vehicles. Size discrimination is accomplished using a compact reverse Differential Mobility Analyzer (rDMA). Particle charging is accomplished using corona ionization. Concentration measurements are completed using a unique flexible printed circuit board electrode which can be removed for cleaning, disposal or chemical analysis of collected particles at the end of its in situ measurement life.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09410878&OS=09410878&RS=09410878
owner: The University of Vermont and State Agricultural College
number: 09410878
owner_city: Burlington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140420
---
 The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Grant DTRT06 G 0018 awarded by U.S. Department of Transportation. 

The present application is related to claims the earliest available effective filing date s from e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications and incorporates by reference in its entirety all subject matter of the following listed application s the Related Applications to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith the present application also claims the earliest available effective filing date s from and also incorporates by reference in its entirety all subject matter of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Application s to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 908 280 entitled Portable Ultrafine Particle Sizer naming Andrew Vize Matthew Casari Britt Holm n and Jeff Frolik as inventors filed Oct. 20 2010. Now U.S. Pat. No. 8 739 602

This application relates to the measurement of air pollution and in particular to the rapid measurement of the quantity and size distribution of aerosol particles. As vehicle engines become more complex and varied it becomes necessary to have better systems to determine our motor vehicle emissions inventories. To develop accurate ultrafine particle models the common practice of using engine dynamometers and in lab testing will need to be replaced with in situ monitoring of vehicles on the road. However measurement of engine exhaust particle size is currently done using instruments that are too bulky expensive and power inefficient to easily adapt to on board in situ particle measurement.

There are several limitations with current systems for measuring engine exhaust particles in particular ultrafine particles or particle diameters less than 100 nanometers. Measuring ultrafine particulate is typically done in a laboratory setting. Particulate monitoring instruments are bulky and not designed for in situ i.e. on board and real time particulate monitoring. Those particulate sizing instruments are generally connected to engine dynamometers which are operated at loads to roughly simulate on road conditions and are not suitable for in situ fleet wide monitoring of engine exhaust particles.

In one optical system light is directed through aerosol particle laden smoke and the attenuation of the light is measured on a detector to indicate total particle concentration. This method does not measure particle size distribution however. Another optical method uses light scattering to measure particle size by causing the particles to pass one at a time through a chamber so that scattered light amplitude depends on the particle size. The amplitude is measured by a photomultiplier which produces an electrical signal dependent upon particle size. To isolate single particles for detection gas sampling must be done at low velocity and the system is usually provided with very narrow pipes which are subject to contamination require frequent cleaning and tend to collect the larger particles before their entry into the sensing chamber. Further such method of measuring the size of a single particle is quite slow requiring perhaps as much as an hour for a typical measurement.

Electrical methods have the advantage that they can be operated nearly continuously with the results available to the operator after a very short interval of time. In one electrical method described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 114 877 to Dunham a charging device operates to charge separate groups of aerosol particles passing the device. The particles then flow in a random manner through a field free region pass an ion trap and flow to a detector. At the detector the particles lose their charge and produce a current. Although the detector current in the Dunham apparatus is said to be an index of the number of particles it is clear that the amplitude of the current is a function of the total charge on all of the particles sensed by the detector at a given moment. Thus the amplitude of the current is a function of the total surface area of the particles. Because the particles flow in a random manner to the detector particles having different surface areas and thus different sizes lose their charge at the same moment of time to produce the current. Therefore the output current in the Dunham apparatus is not indicative of the number of particles except when they are of uniform size.

Another method which indicates aerosol particle size distribution is based on the mobility of charged particles in an electric field extending radially across a tube in which the particles flow. Mobility is a measure of the velocity of a charged particle in an electric field and generally speaking the higher the charge on the particle the higher the mobility. For a given method of charging a particle the amount of charge on the particle is a function of the size of the particle. Therefore mobility is a function of particle size and methods based on particle mobility utilize the difference in mobility to measure particle size distribution. In one such device described in U.S. Pat. No. 3 413 545 to Whitby clean air is caused to move downwardly in an annular flow path surrounding an elongated electrode extending axially in a cylindrical housing. Charged aerosol particles are introduced around the outer periphery of the flow path of clean air and an electric potential is applied across the elongated electrode and the cylindrical housing. For any given potential particles having mobility below a certain value will not move far enough radially to contact and lose their charge to the elongated electrode before passing its downstream end. An electrometer detects these charged particles which generate a current the amplitude of which is a function of the total charge on the detected particles. By varying the potential applied to the elongated electrode more or fewer charged particles will reach the detector and induce the current. By relating the current produced when various potentials are applied to the elongated electrode a measure of particle size distribution can be obtained. However a number of factors limit the usefulness of this device for monitoring effluents in stacks of industrial installations for example. Due to the method of charging known as diffusion charging only particles less than about 2 microns diameter can be measured whereas in a typical stack particles up to 100 microns or more will be present. Further the diffusion charging method is also inconvenient because it requires a source of compressed air and various thin pipes which are subject to clogging.

Accordingly there is a need for a method and apparatus for a compact low cost low power system capable of discriminating and measuring in situ particle size distribution based on particle mobility in an electric field utilizing a small volume differential mobility analyzer and disposable electrodes.

The foregoing and other problems are overcome and other advantages are realized in accordance with the presently preferred embodiments of these teachings.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention an apparatus for measuring aerosol particle concentration and particle size distribution is provided. The apparatus includes a corona ionizer utilizing a high voltage tungsten needle and a concentric ground ring for applying a negative high voltage potential to the aerosol particles. Also included is a reverse differential mobility analyzer rDMA for separating charged particles based on electrical mobility wherein the rDMA includes a charged central repulsion electrode for driving the charged particles towards flexible printed circuit board detectors sized according to predetermined dimensions corresponding with particle sizes of interest.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention a portable ultrafine particle measuring apparatus for measuring aerosol particle concentration and particle size distribution is provided. The apparatus includes a corona ionizer for applying a negative charge via a negative high voltage potential to the aerosol particles. Also included is at least one conductive needle support having precision machined flow pathways for the aerosol gas sample. The apparatus also includes a non conductive needle support for supporting the tungsten needle and electrically insulating the conductive needle support from the ground ring electrode. The apparatus further includes a reverse differential mobility analyzer rDMA for separating charged particles based on electrical mobility. The rDMA contains a central repulsion electrode and flexible printed circuit boards PCB for detecting charged particles. Included in the apparatus is a converter for converting the detected current induced by charged particles to a digital signal.

The invention is also directed towards a portable ultrafine particle sizer system for measuring sizes of particles in an aerosol gas sample. The system includes a pump and a proportional valve for pumping aerosol gas samples through the system. A flow meter connectable to at least one pump measures aerosol gas flow through rates set by the pump and the proportional valve. A positive or negative corona ionizer with a tungsten needle ionizes particles within the aerosol gas sample and the reverse differential mobility analyzer rDMA determines particle size distribution based upon the ionized particles and separates the particles based upon different electrical mobility.

Referring now to there is shown a pictorial illustration of one embodiment of the Portable Ultrafine Particle Sizer PUPS Assembly . The PUPS assembly includes Flexible Printed Circuit Board flex PCB Sheath Gas Injection Module rDMA housing aluminum end cap fasteners and push on hose fittings . It will be understood throughout that fittings may be any suitable push on hose fitting or any other suitable hose connector. Likewise plugs may be any suitable mechanical plug. The sheath gas injection module provides concentric alignment of the corona ionizer See sheath gas flow straightener See repulsion electrode See and rDMA housing . The sheath gas injection module also serves the dual purpose of creating a constant gas pressure across the surface of the sheath gas flow straightener See . The rDMA housing is generally comprised of polypropylene material however it will be understood that the rDMA housing could be any structurally and chemically stable non conductive material. The rDMA housing is designed to provide precise alignment of the flex PCB See along the length and radius of the rDMA housing and provide the sealed pneumatic environment.

The PUPS is a composite of aluminum PTFE TEFLON polypropylene and tungsten. However it will be understood that any suitable metal or material having characteristics similar to or exceeding one or more material characteristics associated with aluminum PTFE TEFLON polypropylene or tungsten may be used. The PUPS assembly is comprised of two main parts a corona ionizer See and a reverse differential mobility analyzer rDMA . In the corona ionizer See a negative high voltage potential is applied from a tungsten needle See to a concentric ground ring electrode See . Electrons are generated in the localized atmospheric breakdown around the tungsten needle See . These electrons drift outward and become attached to the aerosol particles passing through the corona ionizer See thus creating negatively charged aerosol particles.

In the rDMA a negative high voltage potential is applied from a central repulsion electrode See to a concentric ground cylinder. Particles entering the rDMA are repelled away from this central rod by electrostatic force toward a series of ring electrodes. The PUPS is designed to separate particles based on aerosol diameters between approximately 10 nm and 200 nm. Smaller particles are repelled more readily than particles that are larger comparatively and impact the ring electrode upstream respectively See .

The end cap provides alignment of the repulsion electrode and the exhaust gas flow straightener See . The conical internal surface of the end cap promotes constant gas pressure across the face of the exhaust gas flow straightener See .

Referring also to there is shown a transparent illustration of the PUPS invention shown in . Included in this illustration is Flexible Printed Circuit Board flex PCB See Item Sheath Gas Injection Module See also rDMA housing See also End Cap See also and Electrical Grade PTFE TEFLON Sheath Gas Flow straightener . The sheath gas flow straightener with an array of holes induces fluid flows in parallel layers. The sheath gas flow straightener is designed to promote laminar flow of sheath gas as it enters the rDMA . It will be further understood throughout that fittings may be any suitable push on hose fitting or any other suitable hose connector. Likewise plugs may be any suitable mechanical plug.

Still referring to there is shown aluminum repulsion electrode . The repulsion electrode is a cylindrical rod of suitably conductive material with known dimensions. A negative high voltage is applied to the electrode thus inducing a repulsive electrostatic force on the negatively charged aerosol particles. Also shown is Electrical Grade PTFE TEFLON Exhaust Gas Flow Straightener . The exhaust gas flow straightener is a round disk with an array of holes through it. It is designed to promote constant flow of gas through radial cross section of the rDMA . Still referring to there is shown the Glass Filled Polyetheretherketone Aerosol Injection Manifold A. The aerosol injection manifold A serves the dual purpose of centering the repulsion electrode in the exit of the corona ionizer See and it promotes tracking of the aerosol streamlines along the surface of the repulsion electrode while no electrostatic forces are applied.

Referring also to there is shown a cross sectional view of the complete PUPS Assembly . illustrates the spatial relationship of flexible printed circuit board sheath gas injection module See rDMA housing See End Cap See Sheath Gas Flow Straightener See Repulsion Electrode See Exhaust Gas Flow Straightener See and Corona Ionizer Housing See . It will be understood throughout that fittings may be any suitable push on hose fitting or any other suitable hose connector. Likewise plugs may be any suitable mechanical plug.

Referring also to there is shown a zoomed partial cross section of the PUPS Assembly . illustrates the spatial relationship of Sheath Gas Injection Module See Sheath Gas Flow Straightener See and Corona Ionizer Housing See . It will be understood throughout that fittings may be any suitable push on hose fitting or any other suitable hose connector. Likewise plugs may be any suitable mechanical plug.

Referring also to there is shown a Cross Sectional View of Corona Ionizer See and Sheath Air Injection Module See . further illustrates the spatial relationship of the Sheath Gas Injection Module See the Sheath Gas Flow Straightener See and the Corona Ionizer Housing See . It will be understood throughout that fittings may be any suitable push on hose fitting or any other suitable hose connector. Likewise plugs may be any suitable mechanical plug.

Referring also to there is shown a Rotated View of Corona Ionizer See and Sheath Air Injection Module See . further illustrates the spatial relationship of the Sheath Gas Injection Module See also Sheath Gas Flow Straightener See also and Corona Ionizer Housing See also . It will be understood throughout that fittings may be any suitable push on hose fitting or any other suitable hose connector. Likewise plugs may be any suitable mechanical plug.

Referring also to there is shown a pictorial illustration of the Corona ionizer module . The Corona Ionizer is a composite of PTFE TEFLON brass copper buss wire aluminum and tungsten. Aerosol passing through the corona ionizer passes through a cloud of free electrons induced by a localized breakdown in the atmosphere surrounding a tungsten corona needle See . A flow of negatively charged aerosol particles exit the corona ionizer .

Also shown in are Plated Copper Electrical Buss Wires . These wires make electrical contact between the electrodes of the corona ionizer and the external screw connectors. also shows Stainless Steel Ground Set Screw and Brass Fitting this brass insert and set screw hold the ground ring electrode See in place and creates the electrical connection High Voltage Set Screw and Brass Fitting this brass insert and set screw hold the conductive corona needle support See in place and creates the electrical connection and PTFE TEFLON Corona Ionizer Housing this housing provides a chemically resistant sealed environment which provides electrical isolation for the negative high voltage potentials present.

Referring also to there is shown a cross sectional view of the Corona Ionizer See also . Included in this view is Electrical Buss Wire See also and TUNGSTEN corona needle . Also shown in is Aluminum Ground Ring Electrode . This ring electrode is concentrically placed around the corona needle and serves as a ground reference for the corona needle . The tip geometry of the needle in reference to the ground ring electrode creates an inhomogeneous electric field due to the negative high voltage potential difference applied. This produces a breakdown of the atmosphere localized around the tip of the needle . The PUPS unit uses commercially available B TUNGSTEN probes from Micromanipulator to reduce fabrication cost. . also illustrates the spatial relationship of Corona Ionizer Housing See also and Aluminum Corona Needle Support . This tri spoke support holds the corona needle in place and creates and electrical connection to the high voltage set screw and brass fitting See also .

Referring also to there is shown a pictorial illustration of the Corona Needle Support Conductive Non Conductive See respectively . Machined channels provide the pathways through the structure of the corona needle support for the aerosol to flow into the charging region of the corona ionizer See . These channels align with the channels of the mating corona needle support due to an alignment key on the side of the unit .

Referring also to there is shown a pictorial illustration of the PTFE Teflon Aluminum and Tungsten Corona Ionizer Internal Assembly . further illustrates the spatial relationship of the Conductive Corona Needle Support See also the Corona Needle See also and the Electrical Grade PTFE Teflon Non Conductive Corona Needle Support . The Non Conductive Corona Needle Support holds the corona needle in place and directs the aerosol flow around the localized atmospheric breakdown region occurring at the tip of the corona needle . The support serves as an insulator between the conductive corona needle support and the ground ring electrode . Also shown is Ground Ring Electrode See also and Machined Channel See also .

Referring also to there is shown a pictorial illustration of a cross section of the Corona Ionizer Internal Assembly . Also shown in are Conductive Corona Needle Support See also and Ground Ring Electrode See also .

Referring also to there is shown a rotated illustrated view of the Corona Ionizer See also . Corona Ionizer Housing See also Corona Needle See also Non Conductive Corona Needle Support See also and Ground Ring Electrode See also .

Referring also to there is shown a cross sectional illustration of flex PCB inside rDMA housing . The flex PCB See also is comprised of three sets of eight pads that form ring electrodes when installed in the rDMA housing . Each of the Gold Plated Copper Flex PCB Fabricated Ring Electrodes serves as a collector on which charged aerosol particles impact. Charge transferred from these charged particles induces a current which is directed to the detection circuitry shown in .

Referring also to there is shown an illustrated layout of the flexible Gold plated Copper on Flexible Substrate Printed Circuit Board . The flex PCB comprises a series of electrodes for charge detection. The flex PCB wraps around the inside of the reverse Differential Mobility Analyzer housing rDMA See while the smaller traces create a current path to the detection circuitry See . It will be appreciated that the width and location of each electrode A H can be designed to select specific bands of particle sizes of interest. It will be further appreciated that flexible PCB electrodes A H with integrated electrometers allow for quick removal and cleaning as well as inexpensive replacement. In addition PCB electrodes A H minimize electrical noise in the measurements due to lowered capacitive effects of fixed electrodes A H. PCB electrodes A H incorporate inherent bi polar junction transistors directly on the detection electrodes A H allowing amplification at the charged particle impaction site A H. The use of printed or thin film transistors as detection electrodes as described herein minimize electrical losses due to resistive materials and also eliminate electrical noise due to the dipole nature of transmission traces. The inherent nature of the PCB electrodes A H transistor provide current amplification at the source of charge transfer therefore improving overall signal quality.

Particle Size Selecting Components This portion of the system is dedicated to discriminating particle size based on electrical mobility. Sample particles are charged in the corona ionizer and are then incident to electric field induced by high potential which affects the flight path of the particle in the rDMA . The through device particle velocity is determined by the pump and proportional valve creating a closed loop control system with the flow meter .

Voltage Controllers The first voltage controller provides the requisite potential for breakdown in the corona ionizer . The second voltage controller provides the high potential needed to alter the course of the charged particles to impact on the electrode walls.

Detection Circuitry The detection circuitry contains the flexible printed circuit board flex PCB electrodes which the charged particles impact and transfer their charge to as well as the low current measurement circuitry see legend . It will be appreciated that any suitable low current measurement circuitry may be used. The signal produced which has been converted to a digital signal by converter contains information which can be processed to determine the time resolved particle concentrations impacting the electrodes.

Data Acquisition and Flow Control The Data Acquisition section houses both digital and analog circuitry to monitor system components as well as control the high voltage sources. The Flow Control section controls the pump and flow rates of the instrument.

Peripheral Devices The peripheral devices associated with the instrument are optional to the primary objective of the device. In the figure a Global Positioning System Receiver is shown allowing particle measurements to occur both in a temporal and spatial system.

Still referring to computer microcontroller may be any suitable computer microcontroller. For example computer microcontroller may be a mote . As used in this disclosure the term mote device or mote typically indicates an autonomous or semi autonomous computing communication actuating and or sensing device as described in the mote literature e.g. Intel Corporation s or Crossbow Inc. s mote literature .

Certain embodiments of the mote device s can be fabricated to be relatively small typically less than several inches in dimension often a fraction of an inch . Certain embodiments of mote systems s e.g. controller and data acquisition GPS receiver can also be relatively inexpensive to produce and can be designed to stand up to relatively harsh and or external environments.

Many embodiments of mote systems s or simply motes as described in this disclosure can provide a wide variety of parameter sensing and or actuating functionalities. Such parameter sensing may be controlled and or light or display device actuated using computer based sensing electro mechanical sensing magnetic sensing and or other sensing techniques. Certain embodiments of mote device s and networks can be located at remote hostile external or inaccessible location s and can be wirelessly networked.

Mote can be programmed with control algorithms for auxiliary circuitry managing activation of sources and sensors to ensure that energy is expended in an efficient manner and to dynamically adapt deployments to environmental conditions.

Still referring to there is shown a programmable mote device equipped with auxiliary processor A RAM B and Flash memory C. Optionally mote can be augmented with external memory D. Motes also have a communication device E capable of approximately 100 meter communication range and can support a variety of data retrieval techniques.

It will be appreciated that the invention advantageously incorporates motes to eliminate the wiring burdens and heavy enclosures often required of traditional data logging mechanisms and significantly reduces power requirements. The mote system item establishes a standard protocol connection for example but not limited to a TCP IP connection with another mote system. This standard protocol allows an easy interface to data storage and visualization applications. Furthermore this TCP IP connection serves as an actuation channel for controlling the deployment remotely for example to modify sampling rates for power management.

It will be appreciated that the invention overcomes prior art limitations with novel features such as Particle Ionization Particles ionized in the PUPS receive a negative charge via a low cost unipolar corona ionizer. Defining features of the PUPS corona ionizer

Similarly the advantageous features of the invention s Flexible PCB Detectors also overcome limitations in the prior art. The Flexible Printed Circuit Board flexPCB detectors are used for particle detection and allow a circuit to bend to fit geometries which normal printed circuit boards cannot. There are at least four major benefits to using flexPCBs as described in this invention description 

It should be understood that the foregoing description is only illustrative of the invention. For example the PUPS may use a positive corona ionizer for applying a positive charge via a positive high voltage potential to the aerosol particles with suitable modifications to the PUPS rDMA and detection circuitry. Thus various alternatives and modifications can be devised by those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. For example the portability of the invention stemming from the light weight and small size of the present invention approximately 432 cu. in. and approximately 8 lbs respectively may be modified slightly. Accordingly the present invention is intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications and variances that fall within the scope of the appended claims.

