---

title: Slotted waveguide antenna with metamaterial structures
abstract: The present disclosure relates to a slotted waveguide antenna system. The slotted waveguide antenna system includes a waveguide that includes a first surface and a plurality of slots defined in the first surface and a metamaterial structure positioned external to the waveguide. The metamaterial structure is configured to exhibit a negative effective permittivity and a negative effective permeability for an operating frequency range. The metamaterial structure includes a split ring resonator, a substrate and a wire structure. The wire structure includes a first portion, a second portion and a third portion, the second portion coupled between the first portion and the second portion, the first portion oriented parallel to the third portion, the second portion oriented perpendicular to the first portion and the third portion. A dimension of at least one of the first portion and the third portion is related to the operating frequency range.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09595765&OS=09595765&RS=09595765
owner: Continental Microwave & Tool Co., Inc.
number: 09595765
owner_city: Exeter
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140705
---
This disclosure relates to a slotted waveguide antenna in particular to a slotted waveguide antenna with metamaterial structures.

Generally slotted waveguide antennas SWAs include a rectangular waveguide with slots formed in at least one surface. Electromagnetic energy may be provided to the SWA by a transmission line and or another waveguide configured to couple a transmitter and or receiver to the SWA. For example SWAs may be used in navigational radar applications. SWAs may be configured to operate at one or more frequencies between about 1 gigahertz GHz and about 26 GHz.

SWA antenna characteristics including gain and directivity are related to a physical size of the SWA. In order to increase gain and or directivity the size of the SWA may be increased. Increasing size may result in increased weight and or mechanical instability. SWA antenna characteristics may be improved without increasing size by adding dielectric material inside the waveguide. Dielectric materials can be lossy i.e. non zero loss tangent and thus may detrimentally affect the gain of the SWA.

The present disclosure relates in one embodiment to a system. The system includes a slotted waveguide antenna and a metamaterial structure positioned external to the waveguide. The slotted waveguide antenna includes a waveguide configured to enclose a waveguide cavity. The waveguide includes a first surface and a plurality of slots defined in the first surface each slot configured to transmit and receive electromagnetic waves with frequencies in an operating frequency range. The metamaterial structure is configured to exhibit a negative effective permittivity and a negative effective permeability for the operating frequency range. The metamaterial structure includes a split ring resonator comprising an outer split ring and a concentric inner split ring a substrate and a wire structure. The wire structure includes a first portion a second portion and a third portion. The second portion is coupled between the first portion and the second portion. The first portion is oriented parallel to the third portion. The second portion is oriented perpendicular to the first portion and the third portion. A dimension of at least one of the first portion and the third portion is related to the operating frequency range.

The present disclosure relates in one embodiment to an apparatus. The apparatus includes a metamaterial structure configured to exhibit a negative effective permittivity and a negative effective permeability for an operating frequency range. The metamaterial structure includes a split ring resonator a substrate and a wire structure. The split ring resonator includes an outer split ring and a concentric inner split ring. The wire structure includes a first portion a second portion and a third portion. The second portion is coupled between the first portion and the second portion. The first portion is oriented parallel to the third portion and the second portion is oriented perpendicular to the first portion and the third portion. A dimension of at least one of the first portion and the third portion is related to the operating frequency range.

The present disclosure relates in another embodiment to an antenna system. The antenna system includes a slotted waveguide antenna. The slotted waveguide antenna includes a waveguide configured to enclose a waveguide cavity. The waveguide includes a first surface and a first plurality of slots defined in the first surface. Each slot is configured to transmit and receive electromagnetic waves with frequencies in an operating frequency range. The antenna system further includes the first plurality of metamaterial structures positioned external to the waveguide. Each metamaterial structure is positioned relative to a respective slot and configured to exhibit a negative effective permittivity and a negative effective permeability for the operating frequency range. Each metamaterial structure includes a second plurality of split ring resonators a substrate and a composite wire structure. Each split ring resonator includes an outer split ring and a concentric inner split ring. The composite wire structure includes a composite first portion the second plurality of second portions and a composite third portion. The second plurality of second portions is coupled between the composite first portion and the composite second portion. The composite first portion is oriented parallel to the composite third portion. The second portions are oriented perpendicular to the composite first portion and the composite third portion. A dimension of at least one of the composite first portion and the composite third portion is related to the operating frequency range.

Generally this disclosure describes a slotted waveguide antenna system and method. The slotted waveguide antenna system includes a slotted waveguide antenna SWA and a plurality of metamaterial structures positioned external to the SWA. The metamaterial structures are configured to enhance one or more performance characteristic s of the SWA. The performance characteristics include directivity gain bandwidth beamwidth and or VSWR voltage standing wave ratio . Thus performance of the SWA may be enhanced without increasing a size of the SWA and or the size of the SWA may be decreased while maintaining performance characteristic s by the addition of the metamaterial structures.

The SWA includes a rectangular waveguide with a plurality of slots defined in a surface of the SWA. A plurality of metamaterial structures may be positioned external to the SWA with a respective metamaterial structure positioned relative to each slot. In an embodiment the metamaterial structures may be oriented parallel to the surface of the SWA. In another embodiment the metamaterial structures may be oriented perpendicular to the surface of the SWA. As used herein a parallel orientation corresponds to parallel within a finite tolerance and a perpendicular orientation corresponds to perpendicular within a tolerance. For example tolerance for a perpendicular orientation may be 4 degrees and tolerance for a parallel orientation may be 0.005 inch. Each metamaterial structure may be positioned a distance from the surface of the SWA. Tolerance for this distance may correspond to the tolerance associated with the parallel orientation i.e. 0.005. The distance may be selected to enhance the operational characteristics of the SWA.

Metamaterials are structures that are configured to provide a material property that is not naturally present in materials. The material property is based at least in part on a physical configuration of the structure. Physical configuration parameters may include but are not limited to physical dimension s orientation s position s naturally occurring material propert ies relative orientation s and or relative position s of one or more element s of the metamaterial structure. Material properties that may be provided by a metamaterial include negative permeability and negative permittivity. The metamaterial may be configured to exhibit negative permittivity and negative permeability over a finite frequency band. The finite frequency band has a minimum frequency that corresponds to a cut off frequency and maximum frequency that corresponds to a plasma frequency. The plasma frequency is related to the physical configuration parameters. Thus physical configuration parameters may be selected to provide a desired plasma frequency and thereby the maximum frequency of the frequency band .

Metamaterial structures consistent with the present disclosure may each include an array of one or more metamaterial unit cell s . Each metamaterial unit cell includes a split ring resonator SRR structure a substrate and a wire structure. Metamaterial structures consistent with the present disclosure are configured to provide a negative effective permeability and a negative effective permittivity over an operating frequency range i.e. band . The plasma frequency is configured to be greater than a maximum operating frequency. For example the SRR structure may be configured to provide negative and the wire structure may be configured to provide negative Thus the metamaterial unit cells may be termed double negative metamaterials DNM and or negative index metamaterials NIM . Metamaterial structures consistent with the present disclosure may then enhance one or more performance characteristics of the SWA over the operating frequency range.

Antenna performance characteristics may include but are not limited to directivity gain beamwidth bandwidth and or voltage standing wave ratio VSWR . Directivity is a ratio of a maximum radiation intensity from an antenna in a given direction to a radiation intensity averaged over all directions. The average radiation intensity is equal to the total power radiated by the antenna divided by 4 . Gain is a ratio of antenna radiation intensity in a given direction to the radiation intensity that would be obtained if the power accepted by the antenna were radiated isotropically. Gain does not include losses that may arise from impedance and polarization mismatches. The radiation intensity corresponding to the isotropically radiated power is equal to the power accepted by the antenna divided by 4 . If an antenna is without dissipative loss then in any given direction its gain is equal to its directivity.

Beamwidth corresponds to half power beamwidth and is in a radiation pattern cut containing a direction of a maximum of a lobe an angle between the two directions in which the radiation intensity is one half the maximum value. Bandwidth corresponds to a range of frequencies within which an antenna performance characteristics satisfies a defined criterion e.g. gain at or above a value VSWR at or below a value.

Voltage standing wave ratio VSWR is the ratio of an amplitude of a partial standing wave at an antinode maximum to the amplitude at an adjacent node minimum of a transmission line e.g. transmission line feeding an antenna e.g. SWA . VSWR is related to a reflection coefficient as VSWR 1 magnitude of the reflection coefficient 1 magnitude of the reflection coefficient. The reflection coefficient is also known as return loss and or S parameter S as described herein.

The SWA system includes a SWA and a plurality of metamaterial structures . . . . The SWA is configured to enclose a waveguide cavity. The SWA includes a plurality of slots . . . defined in a surface of the SWA . The surface bounds the waveguide cavity. For example SWA may correspond to a conventional SWA. Each slot . . . may be generally rectangular shaped and may be positioned in the surface of the SWA a distance 2 from an adjacent slot and or a distance 4 from an end of the SWA . The distances are measured from centers of the slots. Each slot may be further positioned a respective offset distance from a centerline of the SWA . As is known is a guided wavelength and is related to a cutoff frequency i.e. wavelength of cutoff frequency of a waveguide a width of SWA and a wavelength of an incident electromagnetic wave . For example SWA may be a standing wave waveguide configured to radiate and or receive a fundamental mode transverse electric wave TE . For a cutoff frequency f a corresponding wavelength and an SWA width a long axis of slots parallel to a length dimension b of SWA 2a and the guided wavelength is

The transmission line may be coupled to SWA . For example the transmission line may be coupled to the SWA at an end perpendicular to the slotted surface. In another example the transmission line may be coupled to the SWA at a surface that opposes the slotted surface. In other words SWA may be end fed and or center fed.

Each metamaterial structure . . . may be positioned external to the SWA relative to a respective slot . . . . The metamaterial structures . . . are configured to enhance operation of the SWA by enhancing coupling between each slot . . . and a medium in which the SWA is operating e.g. free space. The metamaterial structures . . . are configured to exhibit negative permeability and negative permittivity over a target frequency range that includes the operating frequency range of system and SWA . Physical configuration parameters associated with the metamaterial structures . . . may be selected determined and or optimized to achieve DNM characteristics for frequencies within the target frequency range. The metamaterial structures . . . may then be configured to enhance one or more antenna performance characteristics of SWA for time varying signals with frequencies within the target frequency range.

SWA system A and SWA system B each includes a plurality of metamaterial structures A . . . H and A . . . H respectively positioned external to SWA . The metamaterial structures A . . . H of SWA system A are positioned perpendicular to first surface . Thus SWA system A may correspond to a vertical orientation of metamaterial structure with respect to SWA . The metamaterial structures A . . . H of SWA system B are positioned parallel to first surface . Thus SWA system B may correspond to a horizontal orientation of metamaterial structure with respect to SWA . In this context vertical and horizontal are merely labels configured to differentiate between a first embodiment e.g. SWA system A and a second embodiment e.g. SWA system B of an SWA with metamaterial structures consistent with various embodiments of the present disclosure. The metamaterial structures A . . . H and A . . . H may be positioned and or oriented so that a long axis dimension l of each metamaterial structure is generally perpendicular to a long axis e.g. dimension 2 s of a respective slot. The metamaterial structures A . . . H and A . . . H may be further positioned and or oriented so that at least a portion of at least one metamaterial unit cell as described herein of each metamaterial structure is positioned at or near a center of the respective slot. In other words each metamaterial structures A . . . H and A . . . H may or may not be centered relative a respective slot in a width direction of the SWA.

A number of metamaterial structures corresponds to the number of slots A . . . H. For example a SWA system with eight slots may include eight metamaterial structures. In another example an SWA system with sixteen or more slots may include sixteen or more metamaterial structures. Each metamaterial structure is positioned a distance d from the first surface . In an embodiment dmay be adjusted to enhance and or to facilitate enhancing one or more SWA performance characteristics as described herein. Each metamaterial structure is further centered in a length dimension i.e. long axis of a respective slot. Thus for a slot length 2 s each metamaterial structure may be centered within a tolerance a distance sfrom each end of the slot. For example the tolerance may be 0.01.

One or more metamaterial structures A . . . H may be included in a respective metamaterial structure assembly A . . . D. For example metamaterial structure assembly A includes metamaterial structures A and B. Metamaterial structure assembl ies A . . . D are configured to facilitate mounting metamaterial structures A . . . H to SWA . Metamaterial structure assembl ies A . . . D may include mounting features configured to facilitate attaching metamaterial structure assembl ies i.e. A . . . D to SWA .

Thus a plurality of metamaterial structures may be positioned relative to the plurality of slots external to a slotted waveguide antenna. In an embodiment the metamaterial structures may be oriented in parallel with the surface of the SWA that defines the slots. In another embodiment the metamaterial structures may be oriented perpendicular to the surface of the SWA that defines the slots. The metamaterial structures are configured to enhance one more performance characteristics of the SWA as described herein.

Metamaterial unit cell includes a split ring resonator SRR a substrate and a wire structure . The substrate is positioned between the SRR and the wire structure . The metamaterial unit cell and or substrate may have a width aand a length a. The metamaterial unit cell may further have a thickness athat includes a thickness Tof the substrate and thicknesses of the SRR and wire structure . Thus in an xyz coordinate system width corresponds to the x direction length corresponds to the z direction and thickness corresponds to the y direction. It should be noted that definition of the coordinate system is for ease of description. Element s of SRR substrate and wire structure are generally planar in the xz plane.

The SRR includes an outer split ring and a concentric inner split ring . Each split ring may have a generally rectangular shape. Each split ring includes a conductive portion e.g. a trace that defines a respective gap i.e. a split . The gaps may thus not be conductive and may expose a portion of substrate . The wire structure includes a first portion a second portion and a third portion . A long axis of the first portion and a long axis of the third portion are oriented generally in parallel. The second portion is connected to and positioned between the first portion and the third portion . The second portion is oriented generally perpendicular to the first portion and to the third portion . As used herein generally perpendicular and generally parallel correspond to perpendicular and parallel to within manufacturing tolerances. The splits may be generally aligned with the second portion of the wire structure . A first portion of the outer split ring that includes gap may overlay the first portion of wire structure and a second portion of the outer split ring may overlay the third portion of the wire structure . The relative positions and dimensions of outer split ring and inner split ring are configured to provide a resonance related to a maximum operating frequency as described herein. The relative positions and dimensions of wire structure and first second and third portions A B C are configured to enhance coupling between SRR and wire structure and are configured to provide a second resonance that may enhance operating bandwidth.

Substrate may correspond to a printed circuit board having a first surface and an opposing second surface . The first surface and second surface may be generally planar. SRR may then be formed on the first surface and wire structure may be formed on the opposing second surface . In this example SRR and wire structure may then correspond to conductive traces. For example the conductive traces may include copper. The substrate may include and or be formed of a dielectric material that has a relative permittivity i.e. dielectric constant and a loss tangent. For example substrate may have a relative permittivity i.e. dielectric constant of 2.2 and a loss tangent of 0.009.

Nominal physical dimensions of the wire structure and nominal physical dimensions of the SRR may be determined based at least in part on a target operating frequency range. Metamaterial structures as described herein are configured to exhibit both negative permittivity and negative permeability over a target frequency range that includes an operating frequency range. Metamaterial structures may be considered homogeneous when a maximum physical dimension of the metamaterial structure is less than or equal to 10 where corresponds to a wavelength of a maximum operating frequency. Wavelength may be determined from f where is propagation velocity of an electromagnetic wave in a medium f is frequency of the electromagnetic wave in cycles second and is wavelength in meters. is related to c propagation velocity of an electromagnetic wave in a vacuum i.e. 3 10meters sec as c n where n a refractive index that depends at least in part on material properties e.g. permittivity and permeability of the medium. The maximum physical dimension may be utilized with maximum operating frequency in determination of the nominal physical dimensions of the wire structure and or the SRR as described herein.

Wire structure is configured to provide negative permittivity and SRR is configured to provide negative permeability. Permittivity and or permeability may be negative for frequencies less than an associated plasma frequency. Thus physical dimensions of wire structure and SRR may be determined based at least in part on an operating frequency range. In other words one or more physical dimension s of wire structure and one or more physical dimension s of SRR may be selected and or optimized so that an associated plasma frequency is greater than or equal to a maximum operating frequency of an associated SWA e.g. SWA . The maximum operating frequency may correspond to a center frequency plus one half of an operating bandwidth. For example for a center frequency of 9.5 GHz and an operating bandwidth of 400 megahertz MHz the maximum operating frequency may correspond to 9.5 2 0.4 9.7 GHz. Continuing with this example metamaterial unit cell may be configured to provide a plasma frequency of greater than 9.7 GHz. For example the target plasma frequency may be in a range of about 10 GHz to about 11 GHz. Of course wire structure may be configured with other physical dimensions to provide a different maximum operating frequency associated with a different operational frequency range.

Each wire structure portion may have a conductor width d. For example the conductor width d may correspond to trace width of a printed circuit board trace. A length of the first portion corresponds d p pwhere pis a length of the first portion on a first side e.g. x direction of the first portion and pis a length of the first portion on a second side e.g. x direction of the first portion . At least one of pand pis greater than zero. Similarly a length of the third portion corresponds to d p p. At least one of pand pis greater than zero. p p pand or pmay or may not be a same length. A distance p between adjacent wire structures in a metamaterial structure that includes an array of metamaterial unit cells may correspond to a distance between respective second portions of the adjacent wire structures. The distance may be related to one or more of p p pand p. Length s of p p pand or pmay vary between metamaterial unit cells in a metamaterial structure that includes an array of metamaterial unit cells.

Trace width d and length parameters related to the first portion and to the third portion i.e. p p p p may be selected and or determined based at least in part on a maximum operating frequency. Setting equal to substituting the equations for plasma frequency and damping coefficient above and setting co equal to a maximum operating frequency plus a margin e.g. ten percent yields one equation with two unknowns p d that includes the unknowns raised to powers greater than one and a natural logarithm of a ratio of the unknowns. The distance between adjacent wire structure second portions p may be further constrained based on wavelength of the maximum operating frequency plus the margin as p

Thus wire structure may be configured to provide negative relative permittivity for frequencies at or below a maximum operating frequency by selection determination and or optimization of trace width d and distance p between second portions of respective adjacent wire structure in a metamaterial structure that includes an array of wire structures.

Turning now to SRR includes an outer split ring and a concentric inner split ring . Each split ring has a generally rectangular shape and may be formed of a conductive material e.g. may be a conductive trace. Outer corners of each split ring may be removed and each inner corner of the outer ring may be filled with conductive material to provide a relatively smaller discontinuity at the corners. Width and length dimensions described herein are defined away from the corners. Width dimensions are generally defined parallel to an x axis and length dimensions are defined generally parallel to a z axis consistent with the descriptions associated with . Each split ring includes a conductive portion that defines a respective gap i.e. a split . Each split ring conductor has a nominal width d. A z centerline may be defined parallel to a z axis. The z centerline may be centered in gaps . An x centerline may be defined parallel to an x axis. The z and x centerlines and are mutually perpendicular and cross at a geometric center of SRR i.e. center point . A distance p between adjacent SRRs in an array of SRRs may be measured between center points e.g. center point .

Inner split ring has a width wand a length hand outer split ring has a width wand a length h. An inner edge of inner split ring defines an area that has width 2 r. The inner split ring may be separated from the outer split ring by one or more gaps. The gaps may be measured between an inner edge of outer split ring and an outer edge of inner split ring . A first gap has a length gmeasured relatively near the slit . A second gap has a length gmeasured relatively near the slit . A third gap has a width gmeasured relatively near the x centerline .

One or more of the various physical dimensions may be selected adjusted and or optimized to achieve a negative effective permeability for frequencies below a magnetic plasma frequency associated with SRR . Similar to the operations associated with determining nominal physical dimensions of wire structure to achieve negative permittivity over the operating frequency range nominal physical dimensions of SRR may be selected adjusted and or optimized to achieve negative permeability.

Conductor e.g. trace width d and physical dimensions of outer split ring and inner split ring e.g. split rings may be determined based at least in part on a maximum operating frequency and a minimum operating frequency of the operating frequency range of an associated SWA. A target magnetic plasma frequency may be selected that is greater than the maximum operating frequency. Initial values may be selected for width wand length hbased at least in part on the maximum operating frequency. For example initial values of wand or hmay be selected to be less than or equal to 10 where corresponds to the wavelength of the maximum operating frequency in air. These initial values for wand or hmay then be related to r g p and or d by the geometry of SRR thus providing additional constraints. For example p may be constrained as p 2 r g 2 d corresponding to the distance between the center points of two adjacent SRRs. An initial dimension for trace width d e.g. 0.010 inch may be selected. A numerical computation utility e.g. MathWorks MATLAB may then be utilized to determine values of d r g and p that yield a negative effective permeability over at least the operating frequency band. For example MathWorks MATLAB numerical computation software may be utilized to parameterize and to optimize values for r d p and g. The optimized values for r d p and g are configured to satisfy a maximum operating frequency for an SRR with maximum dimension less than 10 for the maximum operating frequency. The optimized values for r d p and g may be further adjusted to refine operational characteristics of a metamaterial structure that includes an array of metamaterial unit cells as described in more detail below. Thus SRR may be configured to provide negative relative permeability over an operating frequency range by selection determination and or optimization of physical dimensions r d p and g.

Thus based at least in part on a maximum operating frequency a plasma frequency and a magnetic plasma frequency may be selected and nominal physical dimensions of a wire structure and an SRR of a metamaterial unit cell may be selected determined and or optimized. The nominal dimensions of the metamaterial unit cells and or the metamaterial structure that includes the array of metamaterial unit cells may then be refined to enhance performance of an associated SWA as described in more detail below.

Simulation parameters may include for example one or more S parameter s i.e. scatter parameters scatter coefficients and or a resonant frequency related to the SWA. For example a target resonant frequency of a metamaterial structure may correspond to the resonant frequency of each slot in SWA . S parameters provide an input output relationship between ports in an electrical system and facilitate a black box approach to the electrical system. In other words S parameters facilitate characterizing the electrical system based on the input output relationships. For example for an antenna S parameter Srepresents an amount of power reflected from the antenna relative to an amount of power provided to the antenna and corresponds to return loss also known as reflection coefficient . A minimum return loss corresponds to a maximum power delivered to the antenna. The power delivered to the antenna may then be radiated and or absorbed by losses within the antenna. S parameter Srepresent power transferred from a first port to a second port. For example Smay correspond to power received at a second antenna relative to power input to a first antenna. Thus S also known as forward loss may include transmission losses.

The circuit simulation utility may be utilized to adjust lumped element values e.g. corresponding to lumped element models to achieve a target resonant frequency. The circuit simulation utility may be configured to adjust lumped element values based at least in part on one or more S parameter values received from e.g. the electromagnetic field simulation utility. For example Genesys RF and Microwave Design Software available from Agilent Technologies Inc. Santa Clara Calif. may be utilized to perform circuit simulations of the lumped element models .

The electromagnetic field simulation utility may be utilized to adjust one or more physical configuration parameter s e.g. trace width and or gap spacing to achieve a target resonant frequency. For example the electromagnetic field simulation utility may allow parameterizing one or more physical configuration parameter s in order to achieve the target resonant frequency. The electromagnetic field simulation utility may be configured to provide one or more S parameters related to one or more physical configuration parameters. For example ANSYS HFSS available from ANSYS Inc. Canonsburg Pa. may be utilized to perform electromagnetic field simulations as described herein.

The lumped element models correspond to lumped element transmission line models of wire structure SRR and a metamaterial unit cell respectively. The metamaterial unit cell e.g. metamaterial unit cell of includes a wire structure a substrate and an SRR. Thus elements in the lumped element models are related to physical configuration parameters of the wire structure SRR and metamaterial unit cell. Values associated with the lumped elements may be adjusted based at least in part on electromagnetic field simulation results. The physical configuration of the wire structure SRR and metamaterial unit cell used for the electromagnetic field simulation may then be adjusted based at least in part on the adjusted lumped element values. The electromagnetic field simulation results may be generated based at least in part on the physical configuration of the wire structure SRR and metamaterial unit cell including the respective physical configuration parameters. The adjustments and simulations may be repeated until one or more simulation parameters converge. The metamaterial unit cell physical configuration associated with the converged simulation parameters may then be utilized as an initial metamaterial unit cell configuration in a metamaterial structure that includes an array of metamaterial unit cells. The metamaterial structure may then be simulated e.g. electromagnetic field simulation for further optimization alone and or positioned relative to a slot of an SWA as described herein.

Turning to lumped element model corresponds to for example SRR of . Lumped element model includes a first capacitor C in series with a second capacitor C in series with a resistor R. The lumped element model further includes an inductor L coupled in parallel with the first capacitor C. The capacitances of capacitors C C are related to slits and or gaps between the inner split ring and the outer split ring of an SRR. The inductance of inductor L corresponds to inductance of the conductors. The resistor R represents resistive loss of the SRR structure. Lumped element model may exhibit one or more resonances. For example for C with a capacitance of 1.1 picofarads pF C with a capacitance of 0.23 pF R with a resistance of 1 ohm and L with an inductance of 0.252 nano henries nH the lumped element model exhibits two resonances. A first resonance corresponds to a magnetic resonant frequency at 9.57 GHz and a second resonance corresponds to a transmission peak at 8.69 GHz. In this example the element values of lumped element model were optimized until S parameters e.g. S parameters Sand S output from the electromagnetic field simulation utility matched to within a tolerance the S parameters output from the circuit simulation utility.

Turning to lumped element model corresponds to for example wire structure of . Lumped element model includes two inductors L L two capacitors C C and two resistors R R all connected in series. The capacitances of capacitors C and C and the inductances of inductors L and L are related to the first second and third portions of the wire structure . The resistors R and R represents resistive losses associated with the wire structure . Lumped element model may exhibit a resonance related to the inductances and capacitances. For example for R and R each with a resistances of 0.5 C with a capacitance of 0.036 pF C with a capacitance of 1.5 pF L with an inductance of 7 nH and L with an inductance of 1 nH lumped element model exhibits a resonance at or near 9.57 GHz for return loss i.e. S parameter S . In comparison the electromagnetic field simulation utility provided a resonance frequency of 9.50 GHz for this example.

Turning to lumped element model corresponds to for example metamaterial unit cell of and may include for example wires structure a substrate and SRR . Lumped element model includes two inductors L L two capacitors C C and two resistors R R all connected in series. These lumped elements are related to the lumped elements of lumped element model . A number and configuration of the lumped elements i.e. L L C C R R correspond to lumped element model . Initially the element values may be the same as lumped element model but may be further optimized to include coupling effects associated combining the wire structure e.g. wire structure with an SRR e.g. SRR and a substrate e.g. substrate .

Lumped element model further includes a resistor R coupled to a node that is also coupled to R and R. Resistor R is further coupled in series to capacitor C and capacitor C is coupled in series to a parallel combination of C and L. The lumped elements R C C and L correspond to lumped element model . Initially the element values of R C C and L may be the same as lumped element model but may be further optimized to include coupling effects associated combining the SRR with a wire structure and a substrate. Lumped element model may exhibit one or more resonances related to the inductances and capacitances. For example for R R and R each with a resistances of 1.0 C with a capacitance of 1.125 pF C with a capacitance of 0.32 pF C with a capacitance of 0.035 pF C with a capacitance of 0.5 pF L with an inductance of 7 nH L with an inductance of 1 nH and L with an inductance of 0.248 nH lumped element model exhibits two resonances. A first resonance frequency at about 8.4 GHz and a second resonant frequency at about 9.5 GHz.

Thus a combination of a lumped element model a circuit simulation utility a simulated wire structure SRR and or metamaterial unit cell structure and an electromagnetic field simulation utility may be utilized to optimize physical configuration parameters of a metamaterial unit cell consistent with the present disclosure. The individual metamaterial unit cell may then be combined into an array of metamaterial unit cells to form a metamaterial structure as described herein.

In this example the three SRRs are configured to be identical to within a manufacturing tolerance. For example for a conductive portions formed on a printed circuit board substrate manufacturing tolerance is 0.001 inch. Thus a description and or dimensions of SRR may apply to SRRs and . For ease of description a width corresponds to a dimension parallel to an x axis and a length corresponds to a dimension parallel to a z axis. SRR includes an outer split ring and an inner split ring . Inner split ring is positioned in a region substantially circumscribed by outer split ring . Outer split ring has a length D and a width D. Inner split ring has a length D and a width D. Inner split ring defines a substantially rectangular region that has a length D and a width D. An upper gap i.e. a length between an outer edge of inner split ring and an inner edge of outer split ring has length D. A lower gap i.e. a length between an outer edge of inner split ring and an inner edge of outer split ring has length D. A gap i.e. a width between SRR and SRR has a width D. A side gap i.e. a width between an outer edge of inner split ring and an inner edge of outer split ring has width D.

In this example a trace width of the inner split ring corresponds to a trace width of the outer split ring and has a dimension TW. In this example SRR array a width of a split defined by inner split ring corresponds to a width of a split defined by outer split ring and both have a width S. In other configurations TW and or S may not be the same for both the inner split ring and the outer split ring . In this example SRR array the split defined by inner split ring and the split defined by outer split ring are positioned on opposite sides of a centerline parallel to the x axis.

Composite wire structure includes a plurality of unit cell second portions A B C that are coupled between a composite first portion and a composite second portion . Centerline corresponds to a centerline of the second portion A of a unit cell wire structure positioned between adjacent unit cell wire structures. The composite first portion includes a first segment A that has width D and a second segment B that has width D. The composite second portion includes third segment A that has width D and fourth segment B that has width D. Widths D D D D are measured from the centerline . Each of the unit cell second portions A B C has a length D measured between the composite first portion and the composite second portion .

The first segment A third segment A and second portions A and B define a first generally rectangular region that has width D and length D. The second segment B fourth segment B and second portions A and C define a second generally rectangular region that has width D and length D. In this example the first and second generally rectangular regions have a same width D to within a manufacturing tolerance. In some embodiments the first and second rectangular regions may have unequal width dimensions. In this example each unit cell second portion A B C composite first portion and composite third portion has a trace width of TW. In some embodiments trace width s of one or more of unit cell second portion s A B C composite first portion and composite third portion may not be the same.

Composite wire structure may be combined with SRR array and a substrate to form a metamaterial structure. For example SRR array may be formed on a first surface of the substrate and wire structure may be formed on an opposing second surface of the substrate. In this example a centerline of SRR array may be aligned with the centerline of wire structure . The centerline of SRR array may thus correspond to a centerline of the metamaterial structure that includes SRR array . Centerline of SRR array corresponds to a centerline of SRR . In some embodiments in part because of asymmetry associated with wire structure centerlines of for example SRR and SRR may not align with the respective unit cell second portions B C.

Tables 1 and 2 include dimensions of SRR Array and composite wire structure assembled into metamaterial structures that were simulated and prototyped. The substrate was RT Duroid 5880 available from Rogers Corporation Chandler Ariz. that has a dielectric constant of 2.2 for frequencies between 8 GHz and 40 GHz and a loss tangent of 0.0009. Substrate thickness was 0.031 inch. Of course other substrate materials may be used that have a similar thickness and a similar dielectric constant and loss tangent for a target operating frequency range. Table 1 includes the dimensions of SRR array for a metamaterial structure oriented perpendicular vertical to a slotted surface of a SWA e.g. SWA system A of and for a metamaterial structure oriented parallel horizontal to the slotted surface of the SWA e.g. SWA system B of . The dimensions of SRR array have been selected determined and or optimized based at least in part on a target operational frequency range 9.5 GHz 400 MHz as described herein. The dimensions correspond to prototypes constructed and tested that yielded test data as described herein. It may be appreciated that tolerances on the dimensions for SRR array are generally within 0.001 inch e.g. manufacturing tolerance for the perpendicular and the parallel orientation.

Table 2 includes the dimensions of composite wire structure for a metamaterial structure oriented perpendicular vertical to a slotted surface of a SWA e.g. SWA system A of and for a metamaterial structure oriented parallel horizontal to the slotted surface of the SWA e.g. SWA system B of . The dimensions of composite wire structure have been selected determined and or optimized based at least in part on a target operational frequency range e.g. 9.5 GHz center frequency and 400 MHz bandwidth as described herein. It may be appreciated that tolerances on the dimensions for composite wire structure are generally within 0.001 inch e.g. manufacturing tolerance for the perpendicular and the parallel orientation.

Tables 3 and 4 include parameters and data associated with and respectively. Parameters include gain directivity beamwidth left sidelobe LSL area and right sidelobe RSL area. Table 3 includes data associated with simulated and measured E plane cuts for a SWA without metamaterial structures with metamaterials structures oriented perpendicular vertical to the SWA and with metamaterial structures oriented parallel horizontal to the SWA respectively. With attention to the beamwidth for the E plane cut for the vertical configuration it is contemplated that instability in the test set up contributed to the variation in beamwidth between the simulated and measured data for this configuration.

Table 4 includes data associated with simulated and measured H plane cuts for a SWA without metamaterial structures with metamaterials structures oriented perpendicular vertical to the SWA and with metamaterial structures oriented parallel horizontal to the SWA respectively.

Thus a plurality of metamaterial structures may be positioned relative to the plurality of slots external to a slotted waveguide antenna. In an embodiment the metamaterial structures may be oriented in parallel with the surface of the SWA that defines the slots. In another embodiment the metamaterial structures may be oriented perpendicular to the surface of the SWA that defines the slots. The metamaterial structures are configured to enhance one more performance characteristics of the SWA as described herein.

According to one aspect there is provided a system. The system includes a slotted waveguide antenna and a metamaterial structure positioned external to the waveguide. The slotted waveguide antenna includes a waveguide configured to enclose a waveguide cavity. The waveguide includes a first surface and a plurality of slots defined in the first surface each slot configured to transmit and receive electromagnetic waves with frequencies in an operating frequency range. The metamaterial structure is configured to exhibit a negative effective permittivity and a negative effective permeability for the operating frequency range. The metamaterial structure includes a split ring resonator comprising an outer split ring and a concentric inner split ring a substrate and a wire structure. The wire structure includes a first portion a second portion and a third portion. The second portion is coupled between the first portion and the second portion. The first portion is oriented parallel to the third portion. The second portion is oriented perpendicular to the first portion and the third portion. A dimension of at least one of the first portion and the third portion is related to the operating frequency range.

According to another aspect there is provided an apparatus. The apparatus includes a metamaterial structure configured to exhibit a negative effective permittivity and a negative effective permeability for an operating frequency range. The metamaterial structure includes a split ring resonator a substrate and a wire structure. The split ring resonator includes an outer split ring and a concentric inner split ring. The wire structure includes a first portion a second portion and a third portion. The second portion is coupled between the first portion and the second portion. The first portion is oriented parallel to the third portion and the second portion is oriented perpendicular to the first portion and the third portion. A dimension of at least one of the first portion and the third portion is related to the operating frequency range.

According to another aspect there is provided an antenna system. The antenna system includes a slotted waveguide antenna. The slotted waveguide antenna includes a waveguide configured to enclose a waveguide cavity. The waveguide includes a first surface and a first plurality of slots defined in the first surface. Each slot is configured to transmit and receive electromagnetic waves with frequencies in an operating frequency range. The antenna system further includes the first plurality of metamaterial structures positioned external to the waveguide. Each metamaterial structure is positioned relative to a respective slot and configured to exhibit a negative effective permittivity and a negative effective permeability for the operating frequency range. Each metamaterial structure includes a second plurality of split ring resonators a substrate and a composite wire structure. Each split ring resonator includes an outer split ring and a concentric inner split ring. The composite wire structure includes a composite first portion the second plurality of second portions and a composite third portion. The second plurality of second portions is coupled between the composite first portion and the composite second portion. The composite first portion is oriented parallel to the composite third portion. The second portions are oriented perpendicular to the composite first portion and the composite third portion. A dimension of at least one of the composite first portion and the composite third portion is related to the operating frequency range.

Although illustrative embodiments and methods have been shown and described a wide range of modifications changes and substitutions is contemplated in the foregoing disclosure and in some instances some features of the embodiments or steps of the method may be employed without a corresponding use of other features or steps. Accordingly it is appropriate that the claims be construed broadly and in a manner consistent with the scope of the embodiments disclosed herein.

