---

title: System and method for event management and information sharing
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for real-time information sharing. A server receives, from a first user device, a request to create an event, a start time and an end time for the event, and a request to share information among a group of user devices only during a sharing duration associated with the start time and the end time. The server receives information from the respective user devices in the group during the sharing duration, and distributes the received information to the group of user devices only during the sharing duration. The distributed information comprises at least one of geographic locations of the group of user devices and imagery taken by one or more respective devices in the group during the event. After the end time, contact information related to one or more user devices in the group is distributed to other user devices in the group.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09355387&OS=09355387&RS=09355387
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09355387
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141215
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 050 195 entitled System and Method for Event Management and Information Sharing filed on Mar. 17 2011 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The present invention relates generally to group event management and information sharing during the event among the participants. The information shared includes participants locations routes and navigations.

Existing social networking applications offer the ability to allow certain mobile device users to see their locations through a map application. After going through a mutual friend establishment protocol users may control the visibility accuracy and details of what each of the other users can see.

Often a group of people plan to meet temporarily for a common activity or event such as a conference or an excursion. These people may or may not know each other socially. For these temporary meet up scenarios the participants may desire to share information including their respective locations during the limited period of the event. The friend establishment protocols found in the current social networking applications may be cumbersome to establish an intended temporary and loosely bound relationship for these meet up scenarios. The participants may also find it awkward having to explicitly rescind the relationship when the event comes to an end.

Aspects of invention provide systems and methods for real time information sharing among a predetermined group of user devices within a predetermined period of time for a common activity.

In one embodiment of the invention a method executable by a processor for providing information sharing is provided. The method comprises receiving from a first user device a request to create an event and to share information among a group of user devices only within a predetermined time period associated with the event. The method also comprises receiving information from each respective user device in the group during the predetermined time period and distributing the received information only to the group of user devices during the predetermined time period wherein the information comprises at least one of geographic locations of the group of user devices and imagery taken by one or more of the group of user devices during the event.

In one example the method also comprises receiving contact addresses associated with users of the group of user devices sending an invitation to respective ones of the received contact addresses upon the creation of the event and receiving responses to the invitations from respective ones of the group of user devices the responses comprising accepting the invitation or declining the invitation.

In another example the method comprises receiving and publishing the received information for presentation through a user interface wherein the user interface comprises at least one of a calendar application a map application and a social networking application.

In a further example the method comprises receiving a privacy setting from a respective user device of the group of devices and disallowing the information related to the respective user device to be transmitted to the other user devices in the group based on the received privacy setting.

In one alternative the method comprises automatically registering and distributing an initial location of the group of user devices when the predetermined time period begins.

In another alternative distributing the received information to the group of user devices further comprises distributing a request for consensus along with a piece of the received information receiving responses from one or more of the group s user devices responding to the request generating based on the received responses updated information related to the event and distributing the generated information to the group of user devices.

In a further alternative the method comprises automatically ending sharing the information when the predetermined time period expires.

In one example the method comprises sending a notification to each user device in the group when information sharing extends beyond the predetermined time period.

In another example the method comprises processing the information received during the predetermined time period generating a summary of the event after the predetermined time period expires and distributing the generated event summary to the user devices in the group.

In a further example the method comprises receiving permission settings from one or more of the user devices in the group and distributing after the predetermined time period expires contact information related to the one or more user devices to other user devices in the group based on the received permission settings.

In another embodiment of the invention a server apparatus for providing real time information sharing is provided. The server apparatus comprises a processor and a memory coupled to the processor. The memory stores instructions executable by the processor. The instructions comprises instructions for receiving from a first user device a request to create an event and to share information among a group of user devices only within a predetermined time period receiving information from each respective user device in the group during the predetermined time period and distributing the received information only to the group of user devices during the predetermined time period. The information comprises at least one of geographic locations of the group of user devices and imagery taken by one or more of the group of user devices during the event.

In one example the server apparatus comprises instructions executable by the processor for automatically registering and distributing an initial location of the group of user devices when the predetermined time period begins.

In another example the server apparatus comprises instructions executable by the processor for determining a user interface active on a respective one of the group of user device wherein the user interface comprising at least one of a calendar application a map application and a social networking application and sending the received information to the active user interface for presentation to the user.

In a further example the server apparatus comprises instructions executable by the processor for receiving a privacy setting from a respective user device of the group of devices and disallowing the information related to the respective user device to be transmitted to the other user devices in the group based on the received privacy setting.

In one alternative the server apparatus comprises instructions executable by the processor for automatically ending sharing the information when the predetermined time period expires.

In another alternative the server apparatus comprises instructions executable by the processor for receiving contact addresses associated with users of the group of user devices sending an invitation to respective ones of the received contact addresses upon the creation of the event and receiving responses to the invitations from respective ones of the group of user devices the responses comprising accepting the invitation or declining the invitation.

In a further alternative the server apparatus comprises instructions executable by the processor for distributing a request for consensus along with a piece of the received information receiving responses from one or more of the group s user devices responding to the request generating based on the received responses updated information related to the event and distributing the generated information to the group of user devices.

In one example the server apparatus comprises instructions executable by the processor for receiving permission settings from one or more of the user devices in the group and distributing after the predetermined time period expires contact information related to the one or more user devices to other user devices in the group based on the received permission settings.

In yet another embodiment of the invention a device for providing real time information sharing is provided. The device is configured to communicate with other devices on a peer to peer communication protocol. The device comprises a user input device a processor in communication with the user input device and configured to process information received from the user input device and a memory coupled to the processor. The memory storing instructions executable by the processor for receiving from the user input device user input indicating a request to create an event and to share information among a group of devices only within a predetermined time period receiving information from each respective user device in the group during the predetermined time period and distributing the received information only to the group of user devices during the predetermined time period wherein the information comprises at least one of geographic locations of the group of user devices and imagery taken by one or more of the group of user devices during the event.

In accordance with aspects of the invention a system of real time information sharing provides a platform to share data for the participants of a specific event through the participants mobile devices. In an aspect the sharing automatically may end with the event. According to one example a server receives a request from a user device to share information among a predetermined group of user devices during a predetermined time period. The user devices participate in a common activity during the predetermined time period. The information comprises information related to the common activity and information related to a respective user device including geographic information of the device. The server receives the information from the user devices during the predetermined time period and publishes the information to the user devices during the predetermined time period.

Aspects features and advantages of the invention will be appreciated when considered with reference to the following description including exemplary embodiments and accompanying figures. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements. Furthermore the following description is not limiting the scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims and equivalents.

Some of these user devices may be used to participate in a common activity and may therefore share information e.g. locations and dialogues with others participating the same activity for the duration of the common activity. For example user devices and may participate in activity and the information sharing between the two devices lasts with activity . User device and may be participants of activity and the information sharing between the two devices lasts till activity ends. The information shared between user device and for activity is desirably not shared with participants of activity .

In the meet up scenarios such as activity or besides sharing information participants may also want to collaboratively work in the activity. For example a group of biking trip participants may not only want to share their locations but also want to share and contribute to a common set of navigation directions to reach a certain destination. The participants may want to change the existing routes add new vista points detours etc and make these changes immediately visible to all the participants. The participants may also want to share various other types of information such as still images and video collectively imagery taken during the activity.

Network and any intervening nodes therein may comprise various configurations and use various protocols including wide area networks local area networks personal area networks virtual private networks private networks using communication protocols proprietary to one or more companies cellular and wireless networks such as 3G 4G and Wi Fi networks and various combinations of the foregoing.

Network elements that communicate with the user devices may include the servers and . Each server may comprise one or more computers that provide various types of services to the user devices. For example server may be a computer configured to perform various functions related to social networking for the user devices. Server may be a computer configured to provide location based services such as navigations and location aware advertisements.

Server may be a computer configured to provide group event management and information sharing to facilitate a group of users collaborating in the common activity in accordance with aspects of the invention. In although only one server for performing group activity tracking and information sharing is depicted e.g. server the various functions related to facilitating users to collaborating in a group activity may be performed on different servers that are distributed through the network .

Server may utilize service information provided by other servers. For instance the group event management service may display on the user devices a route taken by the activity participants on a map service provided by server . Other service providers may also utilize the group activity service of server . In another example the group event and information sharing application may be displayed with the user interface of a social networking service such as Google Latitude provided by server or in a personal organizer such as Google Calendar. Although not shown the user devices may also receive services from a plurality of other computer servers that may provide media services messaging services news services developer services etc. Data related to these services may reside on the server that provides the respective service or may reside in databases distributed over the network such as databases and .

For example database stores map related information such as map tiles where each tile comprises a map image of a particular geographic area. The various map tiles are each associated with geographical locations such that the servers and or client device are capable of selecting retrieving transmitting or displaying one or more tiles in response to receiving one or more geographical locations.

A single tile may cover an entire region such as a state in relatively little detail and another tile may cover just a few streets in high detail. In that regard a single geographic point may be associated with multiple tiles and a tile may be selected for transmission based on the desired level of zoom. The map information is not limited to any particular format. For example the images may comprise street maps satellite images or a combination of these and may be stored as vectors particularly with respect to street maps bitmaps particularly with respect to satellite images or flat files.

For another example database may store location data. Locations may be expressed in different ways such as latitude longitude positions street addresses street intersections an x y coordinate with respect to the edges of a map such as a pixel position when a user clicks on a map names of buildings and landmarks and other information in other reference systems that is capable of identifying a geographic locations e.g. lot and block numbers on survey maps . Moreover a location may define a range of the foregoing.

Locations may be further translated from one reference system to another. For example the user device may access a geocoder to convert a location identified in accordance with one reference system e.g. a street address such as 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway Mountain View Calif. into a location identified in accordance with another reference system e.g. a latitude longitude coordinate such as 37.423021 122.083939 . In that regard it will be understood that exchanging or processing locations expressed in one reference system such as street addresses may also be received or processed in other references systems as well.

Database may store data related to group activities such as start and end times of a specific group activity participants of the activity access restrictions related to each participant visibility options and activity statistics etc.

The databases may be SQL based databases or any other storage system for structured data. Group activity database may store per activity data such as start and destination points proposed routes directions duration time participants and access restrictions e.g. allow or disallow non participants to join or view the activity etc. Per activity data may also include participant profiles and statistics or summaries regarding the group event. Participant profiles may include a trail of location data of the respective user device during the activity privacy settings such as visibility modes and contact details etc.

Alternatively location data of the user devices may be stored in the location updates database . The location updates may be sorted by time or in other order in the database. These updates are received from respective user devices and are propagated to other participants of the event based on the privacy settings associated with the respective user devices. The location data may be utilized by the activity processing module to enable post activity statistical computations and visualizations of the activity results.

Activity processing module desirably stores programs routines and algorithms to facilitate the participants to manage the group event and share information. For example the processing module may determine which data is to be shared by which user devices based on the sharing restrictions associated with the data and the devices. The processing module may also perform functions related to post activity statistical processing visualization and presentation of the results to the user devices. Although only one block module is illustrated it should be understood that more than one functional module may perform various processing functions and may be included in the server.

Request manager functions as an interface module between the user devices and the other modules databases associated with the server. For example the request manager may channel various user activity requests to the appropriate processing modules send the requested information to the right user devices and distribute the event information to the event participants.

API may be provided by the server to allow third party application developers to utilize the group activity server platform and create desired new applications. These applications may include user interfaces for creating an activity and inviting participants applications for managing events and applications to utilize the activity data e.g. a video creation application using the route traveled during the activity and images taken by the participants along the route .

A user device such as device may comprise a device controller processor output system and input system . User of the device may enter various user activity requests through the input system e.g. a keyboard touch screen or mouse . The device controller may process the requests and send the requests through a communication interface to the server . The device controller may also receive information from the server and present it to the user through the output system for example by displaying a chart of the activity result on a display screen of the user device .

The processor may be any conventional processor such as off the shelf processors from Intel Corporation or Advanced Micro Devices. Alternatively the processor may be a dedicated controller such as an ASIC. Although functionally illustrates the processor and the memory as being within the same block the processor and the memory may actually comprise multiple processors and memories that may or may not be stored within the same physical housing. For example the memory may be one or more hard drives or other storage media located in a server farm of a data center. Accordingly references to a processor a computer or a memory will be understood to include references to a collection of processors or computers or memories that may or may not operate in parallel.

Memory stores information accessible by processor including instructions that may be executed or otherwise used by the processor . It also includes data that may be retrieved manipulated or stored by the processor. The memory may be of any type capable of storing information accessible by the processor including a computer readable medium or other tangible medium that stores data that may be read with the aid of an electronic device such as a hard drive memory card ROM RAM DVD or other optical disks as well as other write capable and read only memories. Systems and methods may include different combinations of the foregoing whereby different portions of the instructions and data are stored on different types of media.

The instructions may be any set of instructions to be executed directly such as machine code or indirectly such as scripts by the processor. For example the instructions may be stored as computer code on the computer readable medium. In that regard the terms instructions and programs may be used interchangeably herein. The instructions may be stored in object code format for direct processing by the processor or in any other computer language including scripts or collections of independent source code modules that are interpreted on demand or compiled in advance. Furthermore methods and routines of the instructions may include for example various programs or functions such as location processing instructions activity collaboration instructions and activity data processing instructions .

Location processing instructions are used by the processor to receive location updates from user devices distribute the updates and process the historical location data. The event management instructions may be used by the processor to perform functions such as receiving activity setup request from an activity administrator sending invitations to designated invitees of the activity receiving and processing various user requests or settings and distributing the event data and the location data to the user devices. Instructions may be used by the processor to perform various types of post activity processing and publishing these computations on the user devices in the forms of graphs tables videos etc.

Data may be retrieved stored or modified by processor in accordance with the instructions . For instance although the system and method is not limited by any particular data structure the data may be stored in computer registers in a relational database as a table having a plurality of different fields and records XML documents or flat files. The data may also be formatted in any computer readable format.

As shown data may comprise location data of the database obtained from the user devices. Group activity data may comprise per activity data of the group event database described above with . Map information may also reside on server . This data may comprise data of the map database and may be further utilized by other servers to provide applications and services to the user devices such as the social network server and the location based server shown in .

The server may be at one node of network and capable of directly and indirectly communicating with other nodes of the network. For example server may be a web server capable of communicating with client devices and via the network such that server uses network to transmit and provide information to the user using client devices . Server may also comprise a plurality of computers that exchange information with different nodes of a network for the purpose of receiving processing and transmitting data to the client devices in this instance the user devices will typically still be at different nodes of the network than any of the computers comprising server .

User devices and may be mobile devices similar to devices as described with regard to . Each user device may be configured with one or more device controller similar to the device controller in such as a central processing unit CPU memory e.g. RAM and internal hard drives and all of the components normally used in connection with a mobile device.

The memory may store instructions and data . Instructions may include various sets of instructions executable by the device controller and typically found in a mobile device such as operating system instructions e.g. Android Symbian Windows Mobile phone instructions for handling phone related processes and functions such as text messaging graphical user interface instructions user application program instructions such as a web browser location instructions for receiving and sending location data peripheral device instructions to control various input output and sensor systems on the mobile device etc. Data may store various types of data accessible by the processors and instructions to facilitate system operations and application executions.

Various peripheral components on the user device are coupled to the processor and the memory through data bus lines and signal lines. Instructions to facilitate the operations of these components are stored in the memory. These peripheral components include output system and input system such as the output system and input system described in . Output system may comprise an electronic display for visual output e.g. a small LCD touch screen or any other electrical device that is operable to display information and one or more speakers for audio output. Input system may comprise input devices such as keyboard touch screen buttons thumb wheel pointer device ports USB infrared and or microphone.

A communication system enables the user device to communicate with one or more types of networks such as cellular network 802.x networks etc. The communication system may comprise network interface devices and associated controllers or drivers e.g. transceiver and antenna as well as all of the components used for connecting these elements to one another.

The user devices may also include sensor system e.g. infrared sensors and position system . The position system comprises one or more geographic position components to determine the geographic location and orientation of the device. The approximate location of the client s device may be found with a number of different technologies.

For example user device may include a GPS receiver to determine the device s latitude longitude and or altitude position based on satellite signals. The client device may also transmit the geolocation information from a GPS device or device with GPS capabilities to a location server during its connection with the client device in conformance with communication protocols. For example the device may use a browser such as Google Chrome or the browser of the Android operating system each of which may be configured with user permission to send GPS information to trusted network sites.

The location server may use this information to determine a location of the client device. Because the accuracy of GPS determinations may depend on the quality of the device and external factors such as environment the device may further transmit data indicative of accuracy. For example user device may inform the location server that the transmitted latitude longitude position is accurate to within 100 meters i.e. the device may be at any location within 100 meters of the transmitted position. The server may also assign a level of accuracy in the absence of such information.

In another example the user device or a location server may extrapolate geographic locations based upon information received from client devices. For example location data may be received at the user device indicating a potential location of the device. The location data may include an exact point a set of points a distance from a point a range of points or arbitrary boundaries such as streets cities zip codes metropolitans statistical areas counties states or the like. The location data may be used to determine a range of accuracy of the position or area in which the user device may be located.

The geographic position component may also comprise software for determining the position of the device based on non satellite signals received at the client device such as signals received at the antenna from one or more cellular towers or Wi Fi access points. The position system may also include an accelerometer gyroscope or other device to determine the direction in which the device is oriented. In that regard it will be understood that a client device s provision of location and orientation data as set forth herein may be provided automatically to the user to the server or both.

Another location technology employs triangulation among multiple cellular towers to estimate the device s position. Further location technologies include IP geocoding and RF fingerprinting. With these techniques the IP address of the user device on a data network or detected wireless transmitter s ID may be mapped to a physical location or location range. As noted before locations may be provided in any number of forms including street addresses points of interest or GPS coordinates of the user device.

These devices may be operated in accordance with instructions and the instructions may be employed by the device controller to process data received from these devices. For example instructions may be used to estimate the location of the user device based on the time of arrival signals from multiple GPS satellites received by the GPS receiver. Instructions may also perform calculations e.g. triangulation to estimate device location based on the received RF signals when it is determined that GPS signal is not available.

Although certain advantages are obtained when information is transmitted or received as noted above aspects of the invention are not limited to any particular manner of transmission of information. For example in some aspects information may be sent via a medium such as an optical disk or portable drive. In other aspects the information may be transmitted in a non electronic format and manually entered into the system. Yet further although some functions are indicated as taking place on a server and others on a client various aspects of the system and method may be implemented by a single computer having a single processor.

For example event Hudson River cruising may be created for group that includes user devices and . Event conference call may be created for group including user devices and . As illustrated user device may be included in more than one groups and participate in more than one activities. Information shared among the user devices for event are not propagated by the server to user devices and information shared among the user devices for event are not propagated to user devices . Users are provided by the group event server with options to choose whether to share information on a per event basis. For example user device may share location information with other participants in activity but not to share location information with other participants in activity . Information to be shared during an event is not limited to locations but may include still pictures and videos imagery navigations comments and various other types of information.

During the activity each user device may specify its privacy or sharing level. For example at time t devices and select to be on the highest level of information sharing such that their real time locations are visible to all the other participants of activity . At the same time device selects an invisible mode so that other participants cannot see the location of device at time t.

At time t device may opt out of the invisibility mode and change its location sharing level to be visible to all . Device may stay in the visible to all mode. Device may change its location sharing level to a limited visibility mode. A limited visibility mode may further comprise various possible settings. For example device may select to be visible to certain user devices e.g. device but not others e.g. device . In another example device may still make its location visible to all the participants of the activity but at a lower update speed and longer intervals e.g. every 15 minutes instead of in real time. The limited visibility mode may also includes sharing locations at a coarser precision level e.g. on a town level instead of the street level . At time t the data sharing among the devices desirably automatically ends when activity comes to an end.

In other examples the sharing may begin at a predetermined time before the event starts and ends at a specific time after the event ends. For instance the information sharing among the user devices may be scheduled to start hour before t when the event starts and end 20 minutes after t when the event ends . In further examples the event management system may provide options to the participants to extend or shorten the original information sharing duration. The system may request consensus from other participants once it receives one participant s such proposal to extend or shorten.

Instead of automatically ending the sharing the event management system may also send warnings to the user devices if the sharing period is longer than the predetermined time frame. Users may be provided with options to choose whether to end the sharing automatically or be notified when the sharing goes beyond the designated time.

Aspects of the inventions as illustrated in scenarios and provide systems and methods of an event based user information sharing during a predetermined time span. The sharing is contained within the participants of the event and different participants may set different privacy levels to share data.

The event management application may set by default the user who created an activity e.g. Palisades biking trip as the administrator of the activity. Alternatively the event management application may provide options to designate add and change administrator s before and during the activity. Upon the creation of an activity other parameters may also be set such as the start and the end time the proposed route with the start and destination points. Thus user information sharing among the participants of the activity is contained during a predetermined time period that is between the start and the end times of the activity.

Through user interface the user who initiated the activity or any other user already present in the activity can designate a group of users to participate the activity. The group event application may provide various ways to send the invitations such as email text message voice mail notifications to social networking application or other mobile or location based services. Invitations may be sent to the invitees manually by the event administrator or be automatically sent by the event management application in the specific ways and at specific times selected by the administrator.

The group management application may also provide options to choose an application as a user interface for information sharing. For example the invitation may be sent along with a proposal to share information through a social network application such as Google Latitude or a map application such as Google Mobile Map or a personal organizer such as Google Calendar. The invitees may accept the proposal or use a different application to share information during the event. The group management application can work with various types of applications to provide seamless information sharing during an activity.

The group event management application may also be presented on the user device through a web interface such as a web site or through other applications such as an Android based mobile application. illustrates an exemplary scenario in which the group event management is integrated with a personal organizer application on screen of a user device . The personal organizer application may be a calendar based application such as Google Calendar.

When a user creates an event in application an option for managing information sharing during the event may be provided in the new event window . The option may be presented as a click on button such as . The click on button may trigger a detailed dashboard for managing event data sharing such as user interface in . This option may also be provided to manage an existing event such as seminar B .

The default setting of sharing information during an event may be set as yes or no by the user in the event management application. Further detailed settings may be provided when the information sharing is set as yes . These further settings may include when to start sharing e.g. from the event start time 15 minutes before the event and when to end e.g. at the event ending time 10 minutes after the event ends .

The group event management application may provide different options of how an invitee may be involved in the activity. For example the options may include becoming a full participant so that the invitee may be able to share information and collaborate through the application with other participants and view other s information. Alternatively the invitee may choose to become a viewer participant to observe the activity as it progresses. The administrator or the person who initiated the activity may provide different participants with different types of accessibility in the invitation. For example participant Wei L. may be provided with only the option to join the activity as a viewer instead of as a full participant.

The information that may be viewed or observed by a participant during the activity may depend on the other participants privacy settings as well as the common activity setting. Further details of information sharing may be highlighted or be provided through a link e.g. link in the invitation to help the invitees to find more about how to share information during the event.

The users may also be provided with options to join the activity in an anonymous way. For example the group event application may allow the users to sign up for the event using a screen name so that other participants may only view the locations by screen name for the duration of the event. Contact details such as e mail addresses may be hidden from the view of other participants by default. The users may also be provided with options to disclose their contact details to other participants.

The group event management application may also provide the participants with options to make changes to the original activity proposal. These options may include adding participants changing administrators changing the start end time and the itinerary etc. These changes may require consensus of all or part of e.g. a quorum the participants and or the authorization by the administrator. If a group event invitation is sent without a proposed information sharing the participants may be provided with options to propose such sharing to all the other group members.

Upon the designated start time of sharing e.g. when the activity starts or before the activity starts the group event management system may first attempt to contact each of the participants to register their respective initial locations. Since the participants may use different user devices and different location based applications may be active on the user devices the group activity system is configured to provide the location updates through various types of applications running on different user devices.

For example add on applications for various types of browsers or gadgets may also provide location updates to the group activity system. For another example a mobile map application running on a mobile phone may be used by the group activity system to provide location updates and display the scheduled route to be taken.

Specifically in the biking route and the present participants locations of the activity scenario may be displayed on screen through map application as well as an add on user interface over the map application to enable the users to view the locations and manage the events e.g. changing destinations and detours etc. . The group event management system may also provide the users with options to display either the proposed route or the actual routes taken by the participants or both on the map application.

The group event management user interface may be displayed in various types of applications and web sites e.g. process automation systems social network sites online forums in various forms including an icon a highlighted link or a group of newly added friends.

The system may also provide participants to select among a variety of levels to share their location information. For example a visible mode may enable all the participants to view the location updates and an invisible mode may block the location updates to other participants. A limited visibility mode may allow only certain people e.g. the administrator or a selected group of participants to view the location updates. Another variation of the limited visibility mode may allow the location updates to be propagated to other participants at a speed lower than real time for example every 5 or 10 minutes. The group activity system may be configured such that a temporary invisible mode and the limited visibility mode require the authorization of the activity administrator.

The group event system may also automatically notify all or part of the participants of any detours taken by one of the group members. The system may provide settings to enable the participants to selectively propagate their detours to all the group members or only a pre designated group of people or the administrator only or no notification at all.

Information sharing during a group activity is not limited to the participants location. The sharing extends to pictures taken by the participants comments suggested navigations and changes to the directions proposals of new routes additional destinations and stops etc. The participants may makes these changes or proposals through a user interface e.g. user interface or and these changes or proposals are reflected in real time or near real time on the other user devices. The group event system may require a certain type of consensus e.g. by all the participants or the majority of the participants or authorization from the administrator of the activity. Once a consensus or authorization is obtained the system propagates the changes to all the user devices in the activity.

When an activity comes to an end the users may be provided with options to delete their location history as well as any other location tagged data. Alternatively the location history from each participant may be assembled and processed into a trip report and be propagated to the participants.

Operations in accordance with aspects of the invention will now be described with reference to . It should be understood that the following operations do not have to be performed in the precise order described below. Rather various operations can be handled in a different order or simultaneously.

The group activity is created by the server in block and in block the invitations including the proposed activity details may be automatically sent by the server to the invited users. The user who initiated the activity may specify the invitations be sent via e mail SMS phone calls etc. Besides the administrator designation and other activity related parameters options to change these parameters and to make new proposals are also propagated to the other users along with the invitation. In block the responses to the invitation and any proposed changes to the activity are received from other user devices.

The activity begins in block at the predetermined time upon which the sharing desirably also starts and lasts till block where the activity ends. In block the group activity server performs post activity data processing and presents this data in block to the participants user devices in the form of charts figures videos audio outputs etc. Each of the user device that receives the post processed data including user device desirably presents the data to the participants in block . Such information may subsequently be shared with non participants.

Post activity data processing and presenting may involve various calculation methods and types of user interfaces. For example the location history may be presented as trails or videos showing each participant s locations over time on a map interface. Video creation may involve aggregating periodic location updates over a map image and may provide participants comments in a textual audio or visual form to be embedded in the video at various stages.

The location history may also be presented as charts or graphs to illustrate a distribution of time durations versus various locations. For example when a group activity is a conference that lasts for one or more days different rooms floors or buildings within an area may be used as conference or seminar locations. Thus post activity processing may involve statistical calculations of the popularity or utilization rate of a room floor building the average time a participant spends at each conference as an indicator of the interest in the speakers presentations or the seminar topic .

During the activity the group activity application presents the users with various options to share data and to collaborate through the activity. For example in block the server may render the options like visibility mode selection detour suggestion destination change and a comment dialogue box to be displayed on the participants devices. In block user device displays these options through the user interface and in block the user device receives user inputs including sharing selections e.g. a visibility mode selection and data to be shared e.g. locations stop point suggestions etc. from the user input devices. Then in block the user device sends these inputs and the data to be shared to the server.

The group activity server processes the received user sharing selections and the data to be shared in block . In block the server propagates the data to be shared to all or selected group members based on the received users options. Each participant s device desirably presents the shared data accordingly in block .

The group activity servers and the data transmission during the activity may be configured with various security and privacy measures. For example during the activity all communications between the users and the group activity servers are secured and use Secure Socket Layer SSL or any other cryptographic protocols to ensure a secure end to end data transmission at the transport layer. In another embodiment of the system the information sharing may be based on a peer to peer communication system instead of a server client system. In this situation any suitable secure transmission mechanisms may be used in the peer to peer communication.

Since the information sharing is time sensitive and the sharing is desirably contained during the activity duration a neutral and trusted source of time e.g. an Internet time server may be employed by the group activity server to thwart any attacks from participants who attempt to learn others locations beyond the activity duration by resetting the time on their group activity applications.

In addition the location history and other location tagged data may be optionally purged after the activity ends. All location related data is desirably stored in an encrypted form during the activity and may be accessible only to the participants.

It will be further understood that the sample values types and configurations of data described and shown in the figures are for the purposes of illustration only. In that regard systems and methods in accordance with aspects of the invention may be used in connection with various types of user devices may obtain the current user location from various types of position systems and location based applications or services running on the user devices.

The invention may also be used with various data values data types and configurations and different methods and user interfaces for receiving user inputs presenting the activity status and information intended to be shared. The data may be provided and received at different times e.g. the post activity processing functions may be later downloaded over networks upon the users selections from associated servers or databases and by different entities e.g. some values and data may be pre suggested or provided from different sources . Operations described as being performed on the device and data being processed on the device may be performed and processed on servers other devices or various types of network entities in connection with the device and vice versa.

As these and other variations and combinations of the features discussed above can be utilized without departing from the invention as defined by the claims the foregoing description of exemplary embodiments should be taken by way of illustration rather than by way of limitation of the invention as defined by the claims. It will also be understood that the provision of examples of the invention as well as clauses phrased as such as e.g. including and the like should not be interpreted as limiting the invention to the specific examples rather the examples are intended to illustrate only some of many possible aspects.

Unless expressly stated to the contrary every feature in a given embodiment alternative or example may be used in any other embodiment alternative or example herein. For instance the event management application may be displayed through the user interface of various types of applications and web sites. For example the locations of participants of an activity and the additional information about the participants and the activity may be displayed on a public web page. This is useful for public events such as hikes or marathons etc.

Various options of privacy or sharing settings may also be provided to the users. Similarly the location updates may be obtained from many different servers applications and location systems on the user devices. Any statistical algorithms for post event data processing may be used with any of the configurations herein.

The real time information sharing among a predetermined group of user devices within a predetermined period of time may also be implemented in a peer peer fashion without the presence of a central server. Any suitable peer to peer communication protocol may be used. In this case the group event management and information sharing system may reside on the various kinds of devices e.g. mobile phones used by the users. As such systems and functions described above that are performed by a server may be performed by a user device.

