---

title: Lyophilization tray lid
abstract: A lid assembly is provided for covering and sealing a lyophilizer tray that contains a material for freeze-drying into a product in a lyophilizer chamber. The tray has an opening defined by a peripheral lip. The lid assembly includes a first lid disposable to seal around the lip of the tray, second lid disposed on the first lid, and a filter paper disposed therebetween. The first lid includes an opening. The second lid covers the opening and includes a hole over the opening. The filter paper is disposed over the opening between the first and second lids for inhibiting the product from escaping the tray through the hole while permitting water vapor to pass therethrough. With a lyophilization stopper to seal the hole, the tray containing the product can be protected from environmental humidity even after removal from the chamber.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09278790&OS=09278790&RS=09278790
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09278790
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140610
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to lyophilization accessories. In particular the invention relates to a high efficiency particulate air HEPA filtered sealable lid for a bulk lyophilization tray.

Freeze drying involves four stages pre treating freezing primary drying and secondary drying. Pretreatment of a sample material can include increasing concentration increasing surface area and reducing vapor pressure. The freezing process involves cooling the material below its thermodynamic triple point i.e. the lowest temperature in which solid and liquid phases coexist . In the primary drying phase the pressure is reduced to a few millibars by a partial vacuum and the material is heated to sublime the water therein thereby removing the ice. The secondary drying phase removes the unfrozen water from the material often with reduced pressures. Afterwards the vacuum can be disengaged with inert gas such as nitrogen before sealing the freeze dried material referred to herein as a product.

Bulk freeze drying lyophilization uses a tray to contain and transfer frozen material such as biological organisms pharmaceuticals or other materials to and from a freeze dryer lyophilizer before during and after the freeze drying process. These trays are open stainless steel trays designed to fit specifically in a particular freeze dryer but the dimensions can be modified to fit any bulk lyophilization tray for any make or model freeze dryer. As the material dries some particulates therefrom may be prone to escape from the lyophilizer tray resulting in reduced product yield.

Moreover when vacuum is released from the inside of the lyophilizer some of the product may tend to dissipate into the air due to turbulence of air rushing into the inside of the lyophilizer. This can result in contamination of the lyophilizer and loss of product. Following the freeze drying process and disengagement of the vacuum the tray containing the product is removed from the freeze dryer and directly exposed to environmental humidity which could be detrimental to the product. There is currently no conventional item that protects the material and equipment that does not interfere with the freeze drying process.

Several solutions have been posed to address these issues for bulk lyophilizers. For example a single use tray is marketed where the operator first fills the tray with some quantity of material to be dried through a hole in the top which is sealed with a screw on cap before placing the tray into the freeze dryer. Once the material is dry and the vacuum disengaged the tray is removed from the freeze dryer. The operator then cuts the entire top off the tray to access the lyophilized material which makes the trays single use only. These trays do not enable an operator to seal the trays inside of the lyophilizer and thus potentially expose the material to environmental humidity. Also Lyoguard trays do not fit in benchtop models of lyophilizers and decrease visibility of product.

An alternate solution employs bags with a heat sealer to contain lyophilized material. The bags permit vapor to escape but decelerate the lyophilization process. The bag wraps the entire tray and thus prevents intimate contact between the tray and the shelf which is required to maintain efficient temperature control to the product. Conventionally this involves a manual process yielding inconsistent results. Furthermore these bags are one time use only. Thus there is a need for a reusable device that can be used with standard lyophilizers to protect the material and equipment before during and after the freeze drying process as well as provide improved safety protection of operators from contamination.

Conventional tray lids yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide a lyophilization tray lid for containing material within a bulk lyophilization tray container during the freeze drying process and then seal the dried material i.e. product within the tray container to protect that material from humidity upon removal of the tray and product from the freeze dryer. The lyophilization tray lid covers the tray container and enables vapors to exit therefrom during lyophilization while containing the product.

In exemplary embodiments the tray lid can utilize the built in stoppering function of the lyophilizer to press stoppers into holes in the lid thereby sealing the tray while remaining inside the freeze dryer chamber. When the tray container containing the product is removed from the chamber the product is protected from environmental humidity.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

One aspect of the disclosed embodiments provides an exemplary lid assembly for covering a tray that includes a primary lid at least one opening formed through the primary lid at least one secondary lid disposed to cover the opening holes formed in the secondary lid and a filter paper disposed between the primary lid and the secondary lid. The filter paper inhibits escape of material from the tray through the holes. In another aspect of the present disclosure the lid assembly further includes a gasket material disposed between the secondary lid and the primary lid to hold the filter paper in position and fasteners disposed to removably secure the secondary lid to the primary lid.

Yet another aspect of the exemplary embodiments provides a method for containing a product in a lyophilization tray before during and after lyophilization. This method includes disposing a product to be freeze dried into the lyophilizer tray placing a lid assembly over the lyophilizer tray disposing lyophilization stoppers atop the holes prior to inserting the tray and lid into the freeze dryer chamber lyophilizing the product in a lyophilization chamber releasing the vacuum inside the chamber upon lyophilization completion and pressing the stoppers into the corresponding holes to seal the material inside the tray.

The lid assembly includes a primary lid at least one opening formed through the primary lid at least one secondary lid disposed to cover the opening holes formed in the secondary lid and filter paper disposed between the primary lid and the secondary lid. These and other features aspects and advantages of various exemplary embodiments will become better understood with reference to the following drawings description and claims.

The present disclosure relates generally to a lyophilization tray lid assembly that can contain material within a bulk lyophilization tray during the freeze drying process and then seal the dried material within the tray container to protect that material from humidity once the tray and product are removed from the freeze dryer. The lyophilization tray lid assembly covers the tray container and enables vapors to exit the tray while containing the product.

The tray lid assembly can utilize the built in stoppering function of the freeze dryer to press stoppers into holes in the lid assembly thereby sealing the tray container while remaining inside the freeze dryer chamber. Upon removal of the tray container containing the product from the chamber the product is protected from environmental humidity.

A gasket containing the filter paper is disposed between the lids and which are secured together by screws or alternative fasteners that penetrate through the secondary lid and into the primary lid via cavities in mutual alignment. shows a perspective view of the tray lid assembly disposed on a lyophilizer tray container that houses the sample material to be freeze dried. A stopper covers each hole on the secondary lid .

The gaskets are disposed on the primary lid aligned so as to enable the filter paper on the gasket to cover the corresponding opening in the primary lid . The filter paper enables water vapor to escape from the tray container while restricting particulate material from passing therethrough. The secondary lids are disposed over their corresponding gaskets onto the primary lid . The holes in the secondary lids are arranged so as to be disposed within the perimeter of the opening albeit separated therefrom by the filter paper . The screws insert sequentially into corresponding cavities at the peripheries of the secondary lid gasket and the primary lid shown by mezzanine dash alignment lines . The stoppers can be inserted into their corresponding holes shown by upper dash alignment lines .

Referring again to and the lyophilizer tray lid assembly can include the primary lid and the secondary lids that contain the plurality of holes formed therethrough. The primary lid can include openings cut therein over which the secondary lids are correspondingly positioned. The openings are formed through the primary lid in an array larger than the footprint of the holes in the secondary lids and smaller than the length and width of the secondary lids . While the openings are shown as rectangular shaped in the openings can be formed in various geometric and non geometric shapes provided that each opening aligns with its corresponding hole of the secondary lids .

Filter paper can be disposed on a bottom or distal side i.e. facing the tray of the secondary lid to cover the openings . Typically one unit of filter paper can completely cover each opening of the primary lid . However multiple pieces of filter paper can be stacked upon each other provided that the filter paper covers the entirety of openings without gaps that would enable product to escape from the tray container sealed by the lyophilizer tray lid assembly . The filter paper can be an HEPA filter paper sheet and can be sized to cover the opening of the primary lid .

The gasket can be disposed between the secondary lid and the primary lid . The gasket can help ensure a seal between the secondary lid and the primary lid as well as hold the filter paper in position. The gasket can be shaped to fit on the primary lid surrounding the opening of the primary lid . Typically the gasket is sized to match the length and width of the secondary lid . The gasket can be disposed above or below the filter paper . In some embodiments two gaskets can be used to sandwich the filter paper therebetween.

A plurality of fasteners such as the screws can be used to secure the secondary lid onto the primary lid . Of course other fasteners may be employed to position and retain the secondary lid on the primary lid . The screws enable an operator to separate the secondary lid from the primary lid to for example replace the filter paper with a clean piece of filter paper. The tray lid assembly fits onto the lyophilizer tray container . The tray lid assembly can be formed in various shapes and sizes depending on the shape and size of the particular tray container .

The primary lid can include a groove cut about a bottom or distal side outer periphery thereof to help properly position the lid assembly onto the lyophilizer tray container . Stoppers can be designed to fit into the holes of the secondary lids . The stoppers preferably should be lyophilization style stoppers that enable passage of lyophilized vapors out of the tray container while seated atop the holes for example. The stoppers can be disposed inside of the lyophilizer not shown and can be pressed into the holes of the secondary lid via an automatic stoppering function of the lyophilizer for sealed containment.

Therefore an operator is not required to remove the lyophilizer tray container and therefore the product therewithin from the lyophilizer without having the product sealed within a container. The primary lid and the secondary lid can be formed from a clear transparent material enabling the operator to visualize the material therewithin or alternatively an opaque material. In some embodiments an auxiliary orifice can be disposed through the primary lid to enable a temperature probe to be inserted into the lyophilizer tray container and then sealed with a pliable material such as putty.

While the drawings show two secondary lids fitting over two corresponding openings in the primary lid a single secondary lid or else more than two secondary lids can be used within the scope of the present invention. Typically the number of secondary lids can be determined based on the size and shape of the lyophilizer tray container where larger tray containers would typically include more openings in the primary lid and thus more secondary lids . Similarly the number of holes in each secondary lid and the corresponding number of stoppers can vary from the eight each depicted in the drawings without departing from the inventive scope of the embodiments.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

