---

title: Method and system for providing a hold media service
abstract: An approach is provided for determining that a device has been placed on a hold status during a communication session, wherein hold media is presented to the device during the hold status. The approach involves determining that the device and/or the communication session is registered for a hold music service that provides media from a content provider. The approach also involves requesting personalized media from the content provider. The approach further involves presenting the personalized media to the device as the hold media during the hold status.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09596347&OS=09596347&RS=09596347
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09596347
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140815
---
Numerous callers are placed on hold during a communication session this is an unfortunate but unavoidable part. Presently callers dialing into a communication session are played music during the hold period by the service provider without due consideration to the preferences of the callers. Since callers spend a great deal of time listening to music while on hold this experience should be made more productive and pleasurable. In view of the fact that callers can benefit from the information received during the hold period a process of provisioning media of interest to callers while on hold may provide tangible business benefits as well as enhance user experience.

An apparatus method and software for causing an optimization of media services played during the hold period of a communication session with the preference information of individual users is described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. As is well known the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

As discussed callers dialing into a call center are played music during their waiting period until an operator becomes available. The music played during the waiting period does not offer any options for music selection. A caller may feel that the hold period drags on forever because the hold music is terrible therefore terminating the call e.g. callers may hang up annoyed and may never call back . In one scenario user Z spends about 15 minutes a day on hold during a communication session. Therefore user Z listens to music chosen by the service provider for 15 minutes every day. Since the hold music does not suit his musical liking this experience may be negative and may not incentivize the user to make future calls. Surely the service provider may lose user Z as a customer. Given that service providers spend tons of capital on inducing customers to call such mishandling of incoming calls negates the effort to maximize customers. Therefore the system tailors the media played to a caller on hold per their music preference. The media played while the callers are placed on hold are media favored by the callers.

In one embodiment the system molds hold music per customer preference to build a better customer experience. In one scenario the system may be a personalized system that tracks the listening habits of a user and tailors the music stream to the preference of the user. In another scenario the system may be an adaptive system that learns the listening habit of an individual user and suggests new content and or skips contents. In one scenario the content may be any type of content that interests a user for example music videos images stock market prices news updates etc. In another scenario a user may have his content saved in one or more UE which may be accessed by the selection platform . In another scenario a user may save the content in a cloud and the user may link his phone number to the cloud thereby making it accessible to the selection platform to access the content information. For example a user while listening to music in a third party media streaming service skips few songs the system may track the action and may not play the skipped songs when the user is placed on hold during a future communication session.

As shown in the system comprises of user equipment UE collectively referred to as UE that may include or be associated with applications collectively referred to as applications and sensors collectively referred to as sensors . In one embodiment the UE has connectivity to the selection platform via networks . In one embodiment the selection platform performs one or more functions associated with optimizing the media services played during the hold period of a communication session with the preference information of individual users.

By way of example the UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the applications may be any type of application that may perform various processes and or functions at the UE . In one embodiment the applications may be content provisioning e.g. audio video images services camera imaging application media player applications social networking applications location based service applications calendar applications and the like. In one embodiment one of the applications at the UE may act as a client for the selection platform and may perform one or more functions associated with the functions of the selection platform by interacting with the selection platform over the network .

By way of example the sensors may be any type of sensor. In certain embodiments the sensors may include for example a network detection sensor for detecting wireless signals or receivers for different short range communications e.g. Bluetooth Wi Fi Li Fi near field communication etc. a camera imaging sensor for gathering image data an audio recorder for gathering audio data a global positioning sensor for gathering location data e.g. GPS and the like. In one scenario the sensors may include audio sensors e.g. microphone for voice recognition. In one example embodiment a user may be on hold and is listening to hold music during a communication session. The user has the ability to control the music stream e.g. reply the track or skip the track via a speech based interaction. The voice command given by a user is identified by sensors by means of voice recognition mechanism. In one scenario near field communications on the UE makes it possible to identify the user and automatically stream content to the surrounding environment for example streaming personalized music into an elevator when there is a single occupant or to a hotel room upon initial check in.

For illustrative purposes the networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network. Wireless network may employ various technologies including for example code division multiple access CDMA enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity Wi Fi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Although depicted as separate entities networks may be completely or partially contained within one another or may embody one or more of the aforementioned infrastructures. For instance the service provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner networks may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

In one embodiment the selection platform may be a platform with multiple interconnected components. The selection platform may include multiple servers intelligent networking devices computing devices components and corresponding software for causing an optimization of media services played during the hold period of a communication session with the preference information of individual users.

In one embodiment the selection platform may determine that a device has been placed on a hold status during a communication session. Then the selection platform may present hold media to the device during the hold status. In another embodiment the selection platform may determine that a device and or the communication session is registered for a hold music service that provides media from a content provider. In a further embodiment the selection platform may request personalized media from the content provider and present the personalized media to the device as the hold media during the hold status. In one example embodiment user Z spends about 15 minutes a day on hold during a communication session. Therefore the selection platform may select media based on preference of user Z ensuring that user Z listens to music of his choice for 15 minutes every day while on hold. In one scenario the selection platform may gather preference information about user Z from various social networking services content e.g. text images etc. provisioning services storage services contextual information determination services etc. In another scenario the selection platform may gather preference information about user Z by connecting with various online services that reflect interests and or activities of users for example representations of each user e.g. a profile his her social links and a variety of additional information. Then the selection platform may request the media from the third party media streaming service to play the media to user Z while on hold.

In one embodiment the selection platform may access profile information of a user associated with at least one registered device from a content provider to identify user preference information. The user preference information includes music preference information video preference information authentication mechanism preference information or a combination thereof. Then the selection platform may request a media based on user preference information and then forward the media to at least one registered device during the hold period of a communication session. In another embodiment the selection platform is an adaptive system and learns from a user s choice and feedback. The selection platform may monitor user activity e.g. skipping and or replaying of a media and causes an updating of user preference information based on the interaction.

In one embodiment the selection platform may include or have access to database to access or store any kind of data such as user preference information historical user information contextual information etc. The data stored in the database may for instance be provided by the UE any third party content provider etc. In one scenario the database may store profile information for each user wherein the profile information contains their phone numbers social media user identifier preference information PIN code information etc. In one embodiment the database may manage access to a central repository of data and offer a consistent standard interface to data.

In one embodiment the processing module may process one or more registered devices in a communication session to determine that at least one registered device has been placed on hold. Then the processing module may access profile information of a user associated with at least one registered device from a content provider e.g. a third party media streaming service etc. . Subsequently the processing module may process the profile information of the user associated with at least one registered device to identify user preference information.

In one embodiment the subscription module may query the ASP module to determine subscription of an incoming phone number to an optimized media on hold service a content provider or a combination thereof. In one scenario a user may enter a subscription process through a portal offered by a content provider e.g. a third party media streaming service etc. via application on a UE . The portal collects user information for example registered email address registered phone number billing details preferences for content type and whether the user wishes to activate a PIN challenge for each call to an OHMS enabled service. Once the data has been collected a query may be made to the ASP module to ensure that the phone number is not registered to another content provider. If it is a warning may be issued that a user is about to overwrite the subscription to another service and that they may need to cancel the service with the other service provider. The active service name may be obtained from the existing record. However there will be no attempt to broker communications between the two third party media streaming services to facilitate the cancellation of existing contract. In another embodiment if there is no existing record on the ASP module or the user selects to overwrite the one that is there a record will be written to the ASP database containing the user information. An identifier will also be written indicating the name of the service which is now active.

In one embodiment the authentication module may cause an association between a registered phone number with a PIN number user preference information or a combination thereof. In one scenario user preference information includes music preference information video preference information authentication mechanism preference information or a combination thereof. In another embodiment the authentication module may work with the notification module to cause a notification in at least one registered device to enter a PIN code to activate OHMS. In one scenario a user may enter PIN code via a touch based interaction a speech based interaction or a combination thereof. In one scenario a user can bypass the authentication mechanism to receive standard hold media service available to non subscribers. In a further embodiment bypassing the PIN authentication process and requesting media from a content provider is based on a determination that an incoming phone number is configured to OHMS.

In one embodiment the forwarding module may request a media from a content provider. Then the forwarding module may relay the media to at least one registered device during the hold period of a communication session. In one scenario if a user has subscription to a third party media streaming service. Then the user preference information and other content information may be retrieved from the third party media streaming service into the OHMS. The OHMS may optimize the media services in accordance with user preferences and play the media while a user is placed on hold during a conference session. In one embodiment the forwarding module pauses a media based on a determination that a user is no longer on hold. Further the forwarding module may play the media from where it was paused based on a determination that a user has been placed on hold again.

In one embodiment the notification module may cause a notification of at least one challenge to at least one device for example entering a PIN code to activate a service. In another embodiment the notification module may cause a notification to at least one registered device of overwriting the subscription based on a determination that a phone number is already registered with another content provider.

In one embodiment the call managing module may manage incoming calls to a particular number. The call managing module tracks active voice over internet protocol VoIP network components including phone numbers gateways conference bridges transcoding resources and voicemail boxes among others. In one embodiment to support OHMS the call manager is capable of the following functions 

In one scenario when a user connects to the call managing module a query is made against the ASP module to determine if the incoming phone number is recognized as a valid number for provisioning OMHS. If not the call processing continues as normal. In another scenario if a phone number is recognized the call manager may query the ASP module and issue a challenge to the user to enter their PIN number to receive OMHS. Once a challenge is issued but is rejected by a user by pressing a pre defined key to bypass the challenge the call proceeds as normal. If the challenge is issued and accepted the PIN is forwarded to the ASP module and if authentication is successful the call manager may request a stream from the ASP module based on the users preferences and may proceed to direct that stream to the listener. In another scenario if a user has chosen not to go through the PIN authentication process the call manager may bypass the challenge response stage and query the ASP module to determine whether OHMS is configured for the incoming phone number. If so the media stream will be requested from the ASP module else normal call processing continues.

In one embodiment the call managing module may cause a skipping a replaying or a combination thereof of a media item via a touch based interaction a speech based interaction or a combination thereof. In one scenario in any time the listener is receiving an OHMS optimized stream they will have the option to press a pre defined key on their respective UE to either skip the current selection or press another key to replay it. This information may be fed back to the ASP module to update the user preferences. In addition voice command given by a user may be understood by the call manager via voice recognition mechanisms. For example a user may utter skip track to play the next track in the sequence or say repeat track to repeat the last played track or play track to play a known track from the service provider. In one scenario the voice commands may be interpreted on the call manager and then the relevant API call issued to the ASP module to action the command. These commands are not restricted purely to the streaming of musical content from the third party. For example a user may provide command to the ASP module to stream the news headlines or the weather in a particular location. In another embodiment the call managing module may cause an updating of user preference information based on the interaction. In one scenario once a call has been answered normal call processing continues and the interaction with the ASP module is suspended. In another scenario if the same call is placed on hold again the suspended stream is restarted rather than starting the whole process over again. In a further embodiment the call managing module may cause a restarting of the process for optimized media on hold service upon transferring the communication session to another phone number. In one scenario if a call manager is directed to transfer the call to another number the process flow is restarted. This ensures an unregistered number or user does not access the OHMS service through the mechanism of starting the call and then transferring it to an unregistered number.

In one embodiment the ASP module stores phone numbers and data for each registered user including PIN numbers user preferences available streaming services in order of preference etc. In another embodiment the ASP module may open a stream to a content provider based on a request from a call managing module . Then the ASP module may deliver the content to the call managing module for onward delivery to the listener based on the listening profile of the user as determined by the content provider.

The above presented modules and components of the selection platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the selection platform may be implemented for direct operation by respective UE . As such the selection platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the UE for interacting with the applications . In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by respective UEs as a selection platform . Still further the selection platform may be integrated for direct operation with services such as in the form of a widget or applet in accordance with an information and or subscriber sharing arrangement. The various executions presented herein contemplate any and all arrangements and models.

In step the selection platform may determine that a device has been placed on a hold status during a communication session wherein hold media is presented to the device during the hold status. In one scenario callers Z and K dial into a communication session separately and both are placed on hold. Then the selection platform may determine that callers Z and K are placed on hold whereupon hold media is played to both the callers. The hold media played to the callers Z and K may be their personalized to the media preference wherein different hold media may be presented to callers Z and K. Caller Z may hear jazz music by his favorite artist whilst caller K may hear classical music from her favorite artist.

In step the selection platform may determine that the device the communication session or a combination thereof is registered for a hold music service that provides media from a content provider. In one scenario the selection platform may determine that a device associated with at least one caller placed on hold during a communication session is registered for a hold music service that provides media from a content provider. In one example embodiment the selection platform may retrieve profile information of the user associated with the registered device from a third party media streaming services. In another scenario the selection platform may determine whether the communication session that one or more users are dialing in is registered for a hold music service that provides media from a content provider. In one example embodiment one or more users may dial into a conference session that is registered with a service that retrieves media content for individual caller from a third party media streaming service.

In step the selection platform may request a personalized media from the content provider. In one scenario the selection platform may process the profile information of the callers from the content provider to identify user preference information. Then the selection platform may request the content from the content provider.

In step the selection platform may present the personalized media to the device as the hold media during the hold status. In one scenario the selection platform may cause a forwarding of the personalized content received from the content provider to the registered device placed on hold during a communication session.

In step the selection platform may identify a communication identifier associated with the device. In one scenario a communication identifier may be a phone number a mobile directory number MDN device ID a media access control MAC address or other uniquely identifiable piece of information e.g. such as the IMEI of a smartphone or tablet or a combination thereof. In this instance a user may register with a third party streaming service either through a portal or through an application on the UE that can automatically obtain the MAC address or other unique identifier . The record stored on the Adaptive Streaming Proxy ASP may contain this unique identifier. In such manner a user may also be identified through this unique identifier on their UE and a service is not only tied to a specific phone number. In one embodiment the selection platform may determine that the device is registered with the hold music service the requesting of the personalized media the presenting of the personalized media or a combination thereof is based on the communication identifier.

In step the selection platform may query the content provider the hold music service or a combination thereof to determine whether the device the communication session or a combination thereof is registered with the hold music service. In one scenario user H dials into a conference session and is placed on hold. Then the selection platform may query the third party media streaming services that user H is subscribed with for registration information on hold music services. On the other hand the selection platform may directly query the hold music service to determine registration information for UE of user A.

In step the selection platform may present a challenge request at the device. In one scenario the selection platform may cause a notification in a device of a user placed on hold to enter PIN code to activate an optimized media on hold service.

In step the selection platform may receive a response to the challenge request. In one scenario a user on hold may enter the PIN code via a touch based interaction or a speech based interaction.

In step the selection platform may initiate the determining that the device is registered with the hold music service the requesting of the personalized media the presenting of the personalized media or a combination thereof based on the response.

In step the selection platform may present non personalized media as the hold media if the response to the challenge request is not valid. In one scenario a user may bypass the authentication mechanism to receive standard hold media service available to non subscribers.

In step the selection platform may receive a command input from the device. In one embodiment the command input is received as a voice input a keypress input a touch input a gesture input or a combination thereof.

In step the selection platform may relay the command input to the content provider for controlling the personalized media. In one scenario a command input may involve pausing media content skipping media content replaying of media content etc. In another scenario the command input of the user may be used for the updating of user preference information.

In step the selection platform may determine profile information preference information contextual information or a combination thereof associated with the device a user of the device or a combination thereof. In one embodiment the personalized media is based on the profile information the preference information the contextual information or a combination thereof.

In one embodiment the ASP acts on the commands from the call manager that either controls the media stream from the service provider e.g. skip to next track repeat current track or cause the ASP to interrupt the stream and inject content directly e.g. stream an audio encoded version of the current news headlines stream an audio encoded version of the weather in a specified location to the call manager . In one scenario a user may skip the provisioned media during the call process. Then the call manager may indicate that certain media content has been skipped and may request for additional media content from the list maintained by the third party media streaming service . Then the third party media streaming service may store the updated user preference information for future media selection and collection process. This adaptive function of ASP acknowledges the change in the pattern of user preference with regards to certain media content. In another embodiment the ASP maintains a list of content provided to the listener and content that is skipped or repeated. Then the ASP uses this information to determine a pattern for requesting future content from the third party media streaming service to match the listener s preferences. This information may be shared with the third party media streaming service for updating the listener s profile for when they obtain content through a mechanism other than OHMS.

In one embodiment a database of streamed content is maintained by the ASP to allow any necessary royalty payments to be calculated and communicated to the content provider if not already managed by the third party media streaming service . In another embodiment the ASP allows interaction through a published API to the Call Manager . This enables multiple vendors of call manager software to implement the OHMS function in their product offering.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software. The computer system may further include a Read Only Memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information and instructions for the processor .

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to controlling a set top box based on device events. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

