---

title: Providing supplemental contact information corresponding to a referenced individual
abstract: Providing supplemental contact information for an individual referenced in an electronic message typically includes receiving an electronic message, examining the electronic message, detecting an identifier for a referenced individual contained in the electronic message, and making supplemental contact information for the referenced individual available to a recipient of the electronic message. The supplemental contact information may include information that is in addition to information contained in the electronic message. The supplemental contact information may include at least one of an e-mail address, a screen name, a telephone number, a facsimile number, and a mailing address, each of which is associated with the referenced individual.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09461950&OS=09461950&RS=09461950
owner: FACEBOOK, INC.
number: 09461950
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141230
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 784 647 filed Mar. 4 2013 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 149 368 filed May 31 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 146 814 filed May 17 2002 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 979 802 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 843 788 filed Apr. 30 2001 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 201 738 filed May 4 2000 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 229 311 filed Sep. 1 2000 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates generally to online communications systems and more particularly to an online communications system that automatically provides supplemental contact information corresponding to a referenced individual.

In the client server network architecture of the Internet and or the Web electronic documents are stored in computer systems running server programs and are accessed by computer systems running client programs. For example information on the Web is provided by Web servers and is accessible by a client program such as a Web browser e.g. Netscape s Navigator Microsoft s Internet Explorer or Java s micro browser .

Information on the Internet and or Web may be represented by specially formatted text files e.g. Web pages written in Hypertext Markup Language HTML or some other markup language such as XML HDML and or VRML. Each text file may be identified by a network address such as a Universal Resource Locator URL . A typical Web page may include one or more hyperlinks referring to the network addresses of other Web pages.

Hyperlinks may be displayed as underlined text or graphical images that when clicked send a request for the associated page. For example when a hyperlink in a home page is selected a request is sent out by the client to the address specified in the hyperlink and the associated Web page is downloaded and displayed by replacing the home page on the user s screen with the associated Web page.

Browsers and other client programs typically use a communications protocol such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP to request pages from Web servers. HTTP is a request response protocol. Through a connection established between a client and a server the client sends a request to the server and the server provides a response to the client.

An Internet service provider ISP may be used to provide subscribers with access to the Internet and or the World Wide Web Web . In general a subscriber relies on an ISP to provide computers that are connected to and therefore enable communication over the Internet and or the Web. An ISP may offer services in addition to basic Internet access such as for example providing e mail and instant messaging services that enable electronic communication Web hosting services that allow subscribers to publish homepages newsgroup services that allow subscribers to read and post to newsgroups and image services that allow subscribers to view and order digital images of pictures from a developed film roll.

In one general aspect providing supplemental contact information for an individual referenced in an electronic message typically includes receiving an electronic message examining the electronic message detecting an identifier for a referenced individual contained in the electronic message and making supplemental contact information for the referenced individual available to a recipient of the electronic message. The supplemental contact information may include information that is in addition to information contained in the electronic message.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the supplemental contact information for the referenced individual may include an e mail address a screen name a telephone number a facsimile number and or a mailing address each of which is associated with the referenced individual. The supplemental contact information for the referenced individual may include supplemental contact information that was communicated by the referenced individual to a host that maintains the supplemental contact information. The electronic message may include an e mail message and or an instant message.

A communication scheme may be configured between a sender of the electronic message and the individual referenced in the electronic message using the supplemental contact information. The referenced individual may include a sender of the electronic message a recipient of the electronic message and or a name included in a body of the electronic message.

The preferences of the referenced individual may be checked such that the supplemental contact information for the referenced individual is made available according to the preferences of the referenced individual. Additionally or alternatively the preferences of the recipient may be checked such that additional supplemental information is made available for the referenced individual according to the preferences of the recipient.

A personal address book may be updated with the supplemental contact information of the referenced individual. A global address book that includes the supplemental contact information for the referenced individual may be maintained. The global address book may be automatically updated when the referenced individual makes changes to the supplemental contact information.

A status of online presence for the referenced individual may be made available. A real time messaging capability of the referenced individual may be determined such that the real time messaging capability of the referenced individual may be made available.

An invitation may be sent to the referenced individual to subscribe to an instant messaging service. An invitation to subscribe to an instant messaging service may be sent to a referenced individual who is not an instant messaging service subscriber.

An e mail address may be detected for the referenced individual and a domain may be stripped from the e mail address such that a reverse lookup may be performed to obtain an instant messaging screen name for the referenced individual. An indicator associated with the referenced individual may be displayed to indicate available supplemental contact information.

The referenced individual may define the rights of recipients for viewing the supplemental contact information associated with the referenced individual. The referenced individual may define the rights of recipients for viewing the supplemental contact information to change temporally. The referenced individual may define the rights of recipients to enable only designated recipients to view the supplemental contact information associated with the referenced individual only persons designated in a personal address book to view the supplemental contact information associated with the referenced individual and or only persons designated in a global address book to view the supplemental contact information associated with the referenced individual.

The supplemental contact information may include a screen name which may be added to an instant messaging buddy list. Real time contact information for the referenced individual may be made available to the recipient of the electronic message.

In another general aspect receiving supplemental contact information for an individual referenced in an electronic message typically includes receiving from a host an electronic message that includes an identifier for a referenced individual and receiving supplemental contact information for the referenced individual from the host. The supplemental contact information may be in addition to information contained in the electronic message.

These general and specific aspects may be implemented using a system a method or a computer program or any combination of systems methods and computer programs.

Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

For illustrative purposes show an example of a communications system for implementing techniques for transferring electronic data. For brevity several elements in the figures described below are represented as monolithic entities. However as would be understood by one skilled in the art these elements each may include numerous interconnected computers and components designed to perform a set of specified operations and or may be dedicated to a particular geographical region.

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging data between a client system and a host system through a communications link . The client system typically includes one or more client devices and or client controllers and the host system typically includes one or more host devices and or host controllers . For example the client system or the host system may include one or more general purpose computers e.g. personal computers one or more special purpose computers e.g. devices specifically programmed to communicate with each other and or the client system or the host system or a combination of one or more general purpose computers and one or more special purpose computers. The client system and the host system may be arranged to operate within or in concert with one or more other systems such as for example one or more LANs Local Area Networks and or one or more WANs Wide Area Networks . The client device or the host device is generally capable of executing instructions under the command of a client controller or a host controller . The client device or the host device is connected to the client controller or the host controller by a wired or wireless data pathway or capable of delivering data.

The client device the client controller the host device and the host controller each typically include one or more hardware components and or software components. An example of a client device or a host device is a general purpose computer e.g. a personal computer capable of responding to and executing instructions in a defined manner. Other examples include a special purpose computer a workstation a server a device a component other physical or virtual equipment or some combination thereof capable of responding to and executing instructions. The client device and the host device may include devices that are capable of peer to peer communications.

An example of client controller or a host controller is a software application loaded on the client device or the host device for commanding and directing communications enabled by the client device or the host device . Other examples include a program a piece of code an instruction a device a computer a computer system or a combination thereof for independently or collectively instructing the client device or the host device to interact and operate as described. The client controller and the host controller may be embodied permanently or temporarily in any type of machine component physical or virtual equipment storage medium or propagated signal capable of providing instructions to the client device or the host device .

The communications link typically includes a delivery network making a direct or indirect communication between the client system and the host system irrespective of physical separation. Examples of a delivery network include the Internet the World Wide Web WANs LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. PSTN ISDN and xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery mechanism for carrying data. The communications link may include communication pathways and that enable communications through the one or more delivery networks described above. Each of the communication pathways and may include for example a wired wireless cable or satellite communication pathway.

Examples of each element within the communications system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the host system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to host system and communications link of . Likewise the client system of typically has attributes comparable to and illustrates one possible implementation of the client system of .

The client device typically includes a general purpose computer having an internal or external storage for storing data and programs such as an operating system e.g. DOS Windows Windows 95 Windows 98 Windows 2000 Windows Me Windows XP Windows NTT OS 2 or Linux and one or more application programs. Examples of application programs include authoring applications e.g. word processing programs database programs spreadsheet programs or graphics programs capable of generating documents or other electronic content client applications e.g. AOL client CompuServe client AIM client AOL TV client or ISP client capable of communicating with other computer users accessing various computer resources and viewing creating or otherwise manipulating electronic content and browser applications e.g. Netscape s Navigator or Microsoft s Internet Explorer capable of rendering standard Internet content.

The general purpose computer also includes a central processing unit CPU for executing instructions in response to commands from the client controller . In one implementation the client controller includes one or more of the application programs installed on the internal or external storage of the general purpose computer . In another implementation the client controller includes application programs externally stored in and performed by one or more device s external to the general purpose computer .

The general purpose computer typically will include a communication device for sending and receiving data. One example of the communication device is a modem. Other examples include a transceiver a set top box a communication card a satellite dish an antenna or another network adapter capable of transmitting and receiving data over the communications link through a wired or wireless data pathway . The general purpose computer also may include a TV television tuner for receiving television programming in the form of broadcast satellite and or cable TV signals. As a result the client device can selectively and or simultaneously display network content received by communications device and television programming content received by the TV tuner .

The general purpose computer typically will include an input output interface for wired or wireless connection to various peripheral devices . Examples of peripheral devices include but are not limited to a mouse a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a MP3 player not shown a keyboard a display monitor with or without a touch screen input a TV remote control for receiving information from and rendering information to subscribers and an audiovisual input device .

Although devices such as a mobile telephone a PDA a MP3 player not shown and a TV remote control may be peripheral with respect to the general purpose computer in another implementation such devices may themselves include the functionality of the general purpose computer and operate as the client device . For example the mobile phone or the PDA may include computing and networking capabilities and function as a client device by accessing the delivery network and communicating with the host system . Furthermore the client system may include one some or all of the components and devices described above.

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways and that enable communications through the one or more delivery networks .

Examples of each element within the communications system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of . Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and illustrates one possible implementation of the host systems and shown in .

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on the host device . In other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host device includes a login server for enabling access by subscribers and for routing communications between the client system and other elements of the host device . The host device also includes various host complexes such as the depicted OSP Online Service Provider host complex and IM Instant Messaging host complex . To enable access to these host complexes by subscribers the client system includes communication software for example an OSP client application and an IM client application. The OSP and IM communication software applications are designed to facilitate the subscriber s interactions with the respective services and in particular may provide access to all the services available within the respective host complexes.

Typically the OSP host complex supports different services such as e mail discussion groups chat news services and Internet access. The OSP host complex is generally designed with an architecture that enables the machines within the OSP host complex to communicate with each other and employs certain protocols i.e. standards formats conventions rules and structures to transfer data. The OSP host complex ordinarily employs one or more OSP protocols and custom dialing engines to enable access by selected client applications. The OSP host complex may define one or more specific protocols for each service based on a common underlying proprietary protocol.

The IM host complex is generally independent of the OSP host complex and supports instant messaging services irrespective of a subscriber s network or Internet access. Thus the IM host complex allows subscribers to send and receive instant messages whether or not they have access to any particular ISP. The IM host complex may support associated services such as administrative matters advertising directory services chat and interest groups related to the instant messaging. The IM host complex has an architecture that enables all of the machines within the IM host complex to communicate with each other. To transfer data the IM host complex employs one or more standard or exclusive IM protocols.

The host device may include one or more gateways that connect and therefore link complexes such as the OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway . The OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway may directly or indirectly link the OSP host complex with the IM host complex through a wired or wireless pathway. Ordinarily when used to facilitate a link between complexes the OSP host complex gateway and the IM host complex gateway are privy to information regarding the protocol type anticipated by a destination complex which enables any necessary protocol conversion to be performed incident to the transfer of data from one complex to another. For instance the OSP host complex and IM host complex generally use different protocols such that transferring data between the complexes requires protocol conversion by or at the request of the OSP host complex gateway and or the IM host complex gateway .

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways and that enable communications through the one or more delivery networks . As shown the client system may access the Internet through the host system .

Examples of each element within the communications system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of . Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and illustrates one possible implementation of the host systems and shown in . describes an aspect of the host system focusing primarily on one particular implementation of OSP host complex .

The client system includes a client device and a client controller . The client controller is generally capable of establishing a connection to the host system including the OSP host complex the IM host complex and or the Internet . In one implementation the client controller includes an OSP application for communicating with servers in the OSP host complex using exclusive OSP protocols. The client controller also may include applications such as an IM client application and or an Internet browser application for communicating with the IM host complex and the Internet .

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on one or more elements of the host device . In other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host system includes a login server capable of enabling communications with and authorizing access by client systems to various elements of the host system including an OSP host complex and an IM host complex . The login server may implement one or more authorization procedures to enable simultaneous access to the OSP host complex and the IM host complex . The OSP host complex and the IM host complex are connected through one or more OSP host complex gateways and one or more IM host complex gateways . Each OSP host complex gateway and IM host complex gateway may perform any protocol conversions necessary to enable communications between the OSP host complex the IM host complex and the Internet .

The OSP host complex supports a set of services from one or more servers located internal to and external from the OSP host complex . Servers external to the OSP host complex generally may be viewed as existing on the Internet . Servers internal to the OSP complex may be arranged in one or more configurations. For example servers may be arranged in centralized or localized clusters in order to distribute servers and subscribers within the OSP host complex .

In one implementation of the OSP host complex includes a routing processor . In general the routing processor will examine an address field of a data request use a mapping table to determine the appropriate destination for the data request and direct the data request to the appropriate destination. In a packet based implementation the client system may generate information requests convert the requests into data packets sequence the data packets perform error checking and other packet switching techniques and transmit the data packets to the routing processor . Upon receiving data packets from the client system the routing processor may directly or indirectly route the data packets to a specified destination within or outside of the OSP host complex . For example in the event that a data request from the client system can be satisfied locally the routing processor may direct the data request to a local server . In the event that the data request cannot be satisfied locally the routing processor may direct the data request externally to the Internet or the IM host complex through the gateway .

The OSP host complex also includes a proxy server for directing data requests and or otherwise facilitating communication between the client system and the Internet . The proxy server may include an IP Internet Protocol tunnel for converting data from OSP protocol into standard Internet protocol and transmitting the data to the Internet . The IP tunnel also converts data received from the Internet in the standard Internet protocol back into the OSP protocol and sends the converted data to the routing processor for delivery back to the client system .

The proxy server also may allow the client system to use standard Internet protocols and formatting to access the OSP host complex and the Internet . For example the subscriber may use an OSP TV client application having an embedded browser application installed on the client system to generate a request in standard Internet protocol such as HTTP HyperText Transport Protocol . In a packet based implementation data packets may be encapsulated inside a standard Internet tunneling protocol such as for example UDP User Datagram Protocol and routed to the proxy server . The proxy server may include an L2TP Layer Two Tunneling Protocol tunnel capable of establishing a point to point protocol PPP session with the client system .

The proxy server also may act as a buffer between the client system and the Internet and may implement content filtering and time saving techniques. For example the proxy server can check parental controls settings of the client system and request and transmit content from the Internet according to the parental control settings. In addition the proxy server may include one or more caches for storing frequently accessed information. If requested data is determined to be stored in the caches the proxy server may send the information to the client system from the caches and avoid the need to access the Internet .

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communications link may include communication pathways and that enable communications through the one or more delivery networks . As shown the client system may access the Internet through the host system .

Examples of each element within the communications system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of . Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and illustrates one possible implementation of the host systems and shown in . describes an aspect of the host system focusing primarily on one particular implementation of IM host complex .

The client system includes a client device and a client controller . The client controller is generally capable of establishing a connection to the host system including the OSP host complex the IM host complex and or the Internet . In one implementation the client controller includes an IM application for communicating with servers in the IM host complex utilizing exclusive IM protocols. The client controller also may include applications such as an OSP client application and or an Internet browser application for communicating with the OSP host complex and the Internet respectively.

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on one or more elements of the host device . However in other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device .

The host system includes a login server capable of enabling communications with and authorizing access by client systems to various elements of the host system including an OSP host complex and an IM host complex . The login server may implement one or more authorization procedures to enable simultaneous access to the OSP host complex and the IM host complex . The OSP host complex and the IM host complex are connected through one or more OSP host complex gateways and one or more IM host complex gateways . Each OSP host complex gateway and IM host complex gateway may perform any protocol conversions necessary to enable communication between the OSP host complex the IM host complex and the Internet .

To access the IM host complex to begin an instant messaging session the client system establishes a connection to the login server . The login server typically determines whether the particular subscriber is authorized to access the IM host complex by verifying a subscriber identification and password. If the subscriber is authorized to access the IM host complex the login server employs a hashing technique on the subscriber s screen name to identify a particular IM server for use during the subscriber s session. The login server provides the client system with the IP address of the particular IM server gives the client system an encrypted key i.e. a cookie and breaks the connection. The client system then uses the IP address to establish a connection to the particular IM server through the communications link and obtains access to that IM server using the encrypted key. Typically the client system will be equipped with a Winsock API Application Programming Interface that enables the client system to establish an open TCP connection to the IM server .

Once a connection to the IM server has been established the client system may directly or indirectly transmit data to and access content from the IM server and one or more associated domain servers . The IM server supports the fundamental instant messaging services and the domain servers may support associated services such as for example administrative matters directory services chat and interest groups. In general the purpose of the domain servers is to lighten the load placed on the IM server by assuming responsibility for some of the services within the IM host complex . By accessing the IM server and or the domain server a subscriber can use the IM client application to view whether particular subscribers buddies are online exchange instant messages with particular subscribers participate in group chat rooms trade files such as pictures invitations or documents find other subscribers with similar interests get customized news and stock quotes and search the World Wide Web.

In the implementation of the IM server is directly or indirectly connected to a routing gateway . The routing gateway facilitates the connection between the IM server and one or more alert multiplexors for example by serving as a link minimization tool or hub to connect several IM servers to several alert multiplexors . In general an alert multiplexor maintains a record of alerts and subscribers registered to receive the alerts.

Once the client system is connected to the alert multiplexor a subscriber can register for and or receive one or more types of alerts. The connection pathway between the client system and the alert multiplexor is determined by employing another hashing technique at the IM server to identify the particular alert multiplexor to be used for the subscriber s session. Once the particular multiplexor has been identified the IM server provides the client system with the IP address of the particular alert multiplexor and gives the client system an encrypted key i.e. a cookie . The client system then uses the IP address to connect to the particular alert multiplexor through the communication link and obtains access to the alert multiplexor using the encrypted key.

The alert multiplexor is connected to an alert gate that like the IM host complex gateway is capable of performing the necessary protocol conversions to form a bridge to the OSP host complex . The alert gate is the interface between the IM host complex and the physical servers such as servers in the OSP host complex where state changes are occurring. In general the information regarding state changes will be gathered and used by the IM host complex . However the alert multiplexor also may communicate with the OSP host complex through the IM host complex gateway for example to provide the servers and subscribers of the OSP host complex with certain information gathered from the alert gate .

The alert gate can detect an alert feed corresponding to a particular type of alert. The alert gate may include a piece of code alert receive code capable of interacting with another piece of code alert broadcast code on the physical server where a state change occurs. In general the alert receive code installed on the alert gate instructs the alert broadcast code installed on the physical server to send an alert feed to the alert gate upon the occurrence of a particular state change. Upon detecting an alert feed the alert gate contacts the alert multiplexor which in turn informs the client system of the detected alert feed.

In the implementation of the IM host complex also includes a subscriber profile server connected to a database for storing large amounts of subscriber profile data. The subscriber profile server may be used to enter retrieve edit manipulate or otherwise process subscriber profile data. In one implementation a subscriber s profile data includes for example the subscriber s buddy list alert preferences designated stocks identified interests and geographic location. The subscriber may enter edit and or delete profile data using an installed IM client application on the client system to interact with the subscriber profile server .

Because the subscriber s data is stored in the IM host complex the subscriber does not have to reenter or update such information in the event that the subscriber accesses the IM host complex using a new or a different client system . Accordingly when a subscriber accesses the IM host complex the IM server can instruct the subscriber profile server to retrieve the subscriber s profile data from the database and to provide for example the subscriber s buddy list to the IM server and the subscriber s alert preferences to the alert multiplexor . The subscriber profile server also may communicate with other servers in the OSP host complex to share subscriber profile data with other services. Alternatively user profile data may be saved locally on the client device .

Referring to a communications system is capable of delivering and exchanging information between a client system and a host system through a communication link . Client system typically includes one or more client devices and one or more client controllers for controlling the client devices . Host system typically includes one or more host devices and one or more host controllers for controlling the host devices . The communication link may include communication pathways and that enable communications through the one or more delivery networks . The network may be any known or described delivery network including but not limited to a telephone network and or the Internet.

Examples of each element within the communication system of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the client system and the communications link typically have attributes comparable to those described with respect to client systems and and communications links and of . Likewise the host system of may have attributes comparable to and illustrates one possible implementation of the host systems and shown in respectively. However describes an aspect of the host system focusing primarily on one particular implementation of the host device .

The client system includes a client device and a client controller . The client controller is generally capable of establishing a connection to the host system through the delivery network . In one implementation the client controller includes one or more applications such as an IM application an OSP application and or an Internet browser application.

The host system includes a host device and a host controller . The host controller is generally capable of transmitting instructions to any or all of the elements of the host device . For example in one implementation the host controller includes one or more software applications loaded on one or more elements of the host device . However in other implementations as described above the host controller may include any of several other programs machines and devices operating independently or collectively to control the host device . The host device includes a mail gateway having a send mail server and a read mail server . The send mail server is configured to perform functions relating to transmitting electronic data. The read mail server is configured to perform functions relating to receiving and accessing electronic data. The mail gateway is in communication with one or more processing servers .

The mail gateway also is in communication with the storage area and a tandem database . The storage area includes electronic content databases and attachment database . The tandem database includes a system of folders that store electronic data for subscribers of the host system .

The host device also includes an identification ID host complex . The ID host complex includes a configuration server in communication with the client system the read mail server a look up server and an IM server . The IM server typically has attributes comparable to some or all elements of IM host complexes and . In general the IM server is capable of supporting instant messaging services including the identification of whether a particular individual is available for IM messaging the look up server is capable of finding subscriber account information e.g. screen name from a given e mail address and the configuration server is capable of configuring communication schemes between the intended recipient of an e mail message and the sender and or other recipients of the e mail message. The configuration server may include an electronic data store e.g. a cache that may be used for example to cache attributes of electronic data communicated using the host . The cache of attributes of electronic data may be associated with a previously encountered message e.g. a cache entry may indicate that a message stored in the cache with ID 514 references individuals x y z to avoid the need to analyze the message each time it is encountered.

Referring to a sender and a host interact according to a procedure to transmit electronic data. The procedure may be implemented by any type of hardware software device computer computer system equipment component program application code storage medium or propagated signal.

Examples of each element of are broadly described above with respect to . In particular the sender typically has attributes comparable to those described with respect to client devices and and or client controllers and . The host typically has attributes comparable to those described above with respect to host devices and and or host controllers and . The sender and or the host may be directly or indirectly interconnected through a known or described delivery network.

Initially the sender transmits electronic data to the host step . In one implementation the sender is a client system associated with an end user of the communication system . In another implementation the sender aids the client system in transmitting electronic data through a communications link to the host system . In yet another implementation the sender is a processing server within the host system . For example the processing server may be a web mail server arranged to store and forward electronic data transmitted between end users of the communication system .

The host receives the electronic data from the sender step . In one implementation the host includes a mail gateway such as mail gateway of . In this implementation the mail gateway generally receives the electronic data from the client system and or the processing server . Typically the mail gateway will receive electronic content from subscribers through a dial up telephone network or DSL digital subscriber line and will receive electronic content from non subscribers indirectly through the Internet. The mail gateway may perform protocol conversions if necessary to receive electronic content from non subscribers.

After receiving the electronic data from the sender step the host determines one or more attributes of the electronic data step . Attributes of the electronic data may include but are not limited to an identification token the author of the electronic data the recipient s of the electronic data the subject of the electronic data the date and time of the transmission and or whether the electronic data contains attachments or embedded images. The host typically will store the contents and attributes of the electronic data. For example in one implementation of the structure shown by contents of the electronic data are stored in the storage area and the attributes of the electronic data are cached locally in the configuration server and also stored in the tandem database . The body of the electronic data is stored in electronic content databases and any attachments are stored in the attachment database . In this example the body of the electronic data is stored twice to assure its availability. Due to the typically large sizes of attachments however such objects are only stored once to conserve memory space.

The tandem database includes a system of actual or virtual folders corresponding to the subscribers of the host system . Each folder may have properties assigned by the subscriber including for example properties for filtering electronic content from certain sources. When electronic data are received the folder stores the attributes of the electronic data including the location s of the electronic data content i.e. body and attachments in the storage area .

The host then provides supplemental contact information for a referenced individual step . The supplemental contact information for the referenced individual may be provided to the sender of the electronic data the recipients of the electronic data and other individuals referenced in the electronic data. In one implementation the host uses the supplemental contact information to configure a communication scheme between the recipient and the referenced individual.

In one implementation the supplemental contact information may include real time contact information. Real time contact information includes information that reflects the current availability of the user to communicate through one or more communication schemes. For example the real time contact information may include a referenced individual s current online status to communicate using instant messaging or a referenced individual s current availability to communicate using phone communications.

Additionally or alternatively real time contact information may include information that reflects contact information provided by the referenced individual for display to others seeking their availability when viewing electronic messages that identify the individual.

If attributes of the electronic data are stored locally the configuration server retrieves the attributes from the local cache step . If on the other hand attributes of the electronic data are not stored locally the configuration server determines the attributes of the electronic data step and then supplements the local cache with those attributes step . The configuration server may determine the attributes of the electronic data itself and or may access another server to determine the attributes. In one implementation the configuration server accesses the read mail server . The read mail server then determines attributes of the electronic data. Determining attributes of the electronic data may include detecting referenced individuals associated with the electronic data by examining addressing information and the content of the electronic data. The read mail server then presents the attributes to the configuration server . The configuration server receives the listing from the read mail server and stores the listing in the local cache.

The configuration server sends the listing of referenced individuals to the look up server which can be used to determine the real time messaging capability of each referenced individual step . In one implementation the look up server determines whether supplemental contact information is associated with any or all referenced individuals. The supplemental contact information may include e mail addresses IM screen names telephone numbers and or mailing addresses associated with the referenced individual. However the referenced individuals may or may not be subscribers of the communication system . For instance in one implementation the listing includes e mail addresses of subscribers and non subscribers. Thus to facilitate a determination of real time messaging capabilities the configuration server may strip the domain e.g. aol.com from the e mail address of a subscriber with a recognized domain to obtain the subscriber s screen name and facilitate a reverse look up process. In another implementation the listing includes names detected in the content of an electronic message e.g. an e mail message or an instant message or e mail addresses otherwise recognizable to the configuration server .

In general the supplemental contact information will be provided by the referenced individuals themselves and will be maintained by the host system . For example a subscriber may provide contact information when establishing an account with the host system . A subscriber also may provide contact information transparently by connecting to host system and allowing the host system to monitor the subscriber s online presence. In one implementation the host system maintains a global electronic address book containing supplemental contact information associated with subscribers. Each subscriber may control what type of contact information is provided and to whom such contact information is made available. In addition each subscriber may place conditions on when certain contact information is made available. For instance a subscriber may make certain contact information available only at specified times.

In one example a subscriber may make supplemental contact information available only to family members. In this example the subscriber may have minimal privacy concerns and therefore may allow family members access to supplemental contact information including home and work e mail addresses IM screen names telephone numbers facsimile numbers and mailing addresses. In addition the subscriber may provide contact information for a person to contact in emergency cases when the subscriber is unavailable.

In another example the subscriber may make supplemental contact information available to fellow employees during working hours. In this example the subscriber may allow fellow employees access to supplemental contact information including a work e mail address IM screen name telephone number facsimile number and mailing address. In addition the subscriber may provide contact information for an assistant or supervisor that people should contact in urgent cases when the subscriber is unavailable. In another example for a working environment the supplemental contact information may include an office layout i.e. a map so that a remote manager may be able to reach an unresponsive employee by sending a message to an employee located in close proximity to the unresponsive employee.

In yet another example the subscriber may set preferences to enable the supplemental contact information to be provided to designated persons. For example the subscriber may designate which group or groups of persons may receive the supplemental contact information such as senders of electronic messages other recipient of electronic messages and or other individuals referenced. The subscriber may designate specific individuals to received the supplemental contact information. Additionally and or alternatively the subscriber may designate specific individuals who should be blocked from receiving the supplemental contact information.

A subscriber may set preferences that control the presentation of supplemental contact information by the host system . For example the subscriber may allow the host system to examine some or all of the content of electronic messages sent to or by the subscriber. In one implementation the host system may examine the content of an electronic message e.g. an e mail message or an instant message authored by the subscriber or delivered to the subscriber detect names of referenced individuals included in the electronic message and provide supplemental contact information for each referenced individual if available.

In addition the host system may update a personal address book associated with the subscriber. For example the host system may ask the subscriber if a referenced individual should be included in a subscriber s personal address book and or may ask the subscriber if an existing entry for a referenced individual in the subscriber s personal address book should be updated with the supplemental contact information. Upon receiving an affirmative response from the subscriber the host system may populate and or update the subscriber s personal address book. The subscriber s personal address book may be maintained on the host system and or on the subscriber s client system .

In some cases a subscriber may allow the host system to facilitate the acquisition of supplemental contact information. Typically a subscriber will set preferences that control the amount of intervention by the host system . In one implementation a subscriber may allow the host system to automatically update a global electronic address book containing supplemental contact information associated with the subscriber. That is the host system may be permitted to automatically update a subscriber s contact information in the global electronic address book as new contact information for the subscriber becomes available. For example contact information may be automatically added or updated whenever a subscriber creates and or changes an e mail address screen name telephone number facsimile number and or mailing address. As such the most current contact information associated with the subscriber may be made available to other subscribers.

In one implementation the configuration server interacts with the IM server to make known whether referenced individuals are available for instant messaging communication and to enable such communications. For example the configuration server may request the IM server to identify the IM state e.g. online offline away busy not a member of each referenced individual. As described above the IM server may be a network of interconnected servers capable of determining the status or online presence of subscribers. The online presence of the referenced individual can be detected for example from a persistent connection to an IM server and or the activity of a specific control port.

In response to the request the IM server identifies the IM state of the referenced individual to the configuration server . In one implementation the IM state is given by whether the referenced individual is online offline or does not have instant messaging capability. The configuration server may instruct the IM server to send an invitation to referenced individuals without instant messaging capability. The invitation may invite the referenced individual to subscribe to the IM host complex and or the host system . For referenced individuals having instant messaging capability the IM server reports whether each referenced individual is online or offline.

Once the look up server has determined the supplemental contact information for the referenced individuals the look up server reports the real time messaging capabilities of each referenced individual to the configuration server step . In one implementation the look up server identifies the capability of each referenced individual to communicate by e mail instant messaging telephone facsimile and regular mail for example by using icons near references to the individual s name reference within the electronic content or by changing the font of the individual s name reference. The look up server also may provide supplemental contact information e.g. screen name e mail address telephone number facsimile number mailing address to the configuration server . Based on the reported capabilities of the references individuals the configuration server facilitates real time communication with each referenced individual.

In one implementation when the look up server reports the real time messaging capabilities of each referenced individual to the configuration server the configuration server may present a particular instant messaging user interface UI . For example the configuration server may cause a user s existing buddy list window to be updated with the screen names of referenced individuals capable of participating in an IM session. Additionally or alternatively a new buddy list window may be created and updated with referenced individuals capable of participating in an IM session. In the example of the UI includes a buddy list window. The screen names of referenced individuals who are able to receive instant messages will appear in the buddy list window in a new group called Mail Contacts. A user may send an instant message to a person in the Mail Contacts list by clicking that person s screen name. Thus when an individual referenced in electronic content e.g. in an e mail is determined to have IM capabilities a buddy list window may be presented with a screen name of the referenced individual.

Where an icon does not appear next to a referenced individual the referenced individual does not presently have IM capability and selection of the subscriber reference e.g. screen name may elicit a list of other contact information. Thus even if a referenced individual does not have IM capability a subscriber still may be able to communicate with the referenced individual through an alternate communication scheme. For example the configuration server may receive an e mail address for a referenced individual with e mail capability. In one implementation the configuration server displays an e mail address of a referenced individual. By clicking the e mail address the subscriber may launch an e mail message to the referenced individual or the user may be presented with other forms of contact information such as the telephone number of the individual.

It should be noted that the e mail address is displayed according to the supplemental contact information. As such the displayed e mail address is not necessarily the e mail address included in the originally transmitted message. For example if a referenced individual has indicated a preferred e mail address the preferred e mail address will displace another e mail address. To illustrate with reference to assume that a referenced individual Sally Smith has indicated that a work e mail address sallysmith straitsight.com is to be provided as supplemental contact information during working hours and that a home e mail address sallysmith aol.com is to be provided as supplemental contact information during all other times. Even if a sender Chris Barker sends the e mail message using the home e mail address sallysmith aol.com the work e mail address sallysmith straitsight.com may be displayed when the e mail message is opened during working hours.

The supplemental contact information displayed in the pop up window may depend on the date and or time at which the e mail is being viewed. In this case the date time stamp on e mail indicates that the e mail is being viewed on 04 24 2002 11 26 AM . Based on the date and the time that the e mail is being viewed the supplemental contact information for John Doe indicates that the address JDOE AOL.COM should be used to reach John Doe by e mail.

In when the same e mail is viewed at a different time the pop up window displays different supplemental contact information for John Doe . In this case based on the date and time that the e mail is being viewed the supplemental contact information for John Doe indicates that the address JDOE AIM.COM should be used to reach John Doe by e mail.

As is true with respect to other drawings the contact information may be provided for individuals referenced in the header e.g. To From cc or body of the message and may be formed of complete or partial names or aliases or by complete or partial reference to other contact information that is recognizable and that may be associated with the individual. Furthermore the pop up window of while shown as being positioned so as to avoid overlap of the current message may be positioned over under or away from the viewable area of the message that references the individual.

In one exemplary implementation an individual referenced in an electronic message may make other supplemental information available to recipients of the electronic message based on the preferences of the recipient. A host system may facilitate this exchange of supplemental information by maintaining this other supplemental information for the referenced individual and by enabling recipients to designate the other supplemental information they desire to receive about referenced individuals. For example the host may maintain other supplemental information provided by the referenced individual such as for example a type of PDA used date of birth clothes sizes favorites e.g. type of food or restaurant and other types of other supplemental information. A recipient who also may subscribe to the host system may designate what other supplemental information the recipient desires to receive about referenced individuals if that information is made available by a referenced individual. For example in addition to supplemental contact information a recipient also may want to receive information about a referenced individual s favorite restaurant. As long as that information is made available by a referenced individual then the recipient may receive that information.

While the general aspects described above relate to instant messaging and e mail other types of supplemental contact information such as telephone numbers facsimile numbers and mailing addresses for the referenced individual may be displayed. In some implementations all available supplemental contact information for a referenced individual is displayed. For example a pull down menu listing all supplemental contact information for a referenced individual may be presented by clicking text or an icon associated with the referenced individual. In such cases a subscriber may choose the manner in which to contact the referenced individual. In other implementations only the most efficient or reliable ways of contacting the referenced individual are displayed. For example limited contact information such as a primary e mail address screen name and telephone number may be displayed even if other contact information is available.

