---

title: Modifying directions to a parking lot associated with a venue based on traffic conditions proximate to the parking lot
abstract: A venue is associated with various parking lots, and a user may purchase a space in one of the parking lots. A venue management system associated with the venue stores an association between the user and the parking lot. Based on a location of a client device associated with the user, the venue management system communicates navigation directions to the client device for presentation to the user. The directions communicated to the client device account for traffic conditions within a threshold distance of the parking lot, and the venue management system may modify stored directions to the parking lot based on the traffic conditions and communicate the modified directions to the client device for presentation to the user. Additionally, the traffic conditions used by the venue management system include information describing on current usage of various parking lots associated with the venue to allow the user to bypass congestion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09489846&OS=09489846&RS=09489846
owner: VenueNext, Inc.
number: 09489846
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141231
---
This invention relates generally to facilitating user interaction with a venue and more specifically to managing parking in parking lots associated with the venue.

Venues such as stadiums convention centers or amphitheaters frequently host events that large numbers of users attend. These users compensate the venue in exchange for attending the venue during an event providing revenue to the venue. Many venues also obtain additional revenue from vendors associated with the venue that provide goods or services to users attending the venue or from selling parking spaces in one or more parking lots associated with the venue to users who are attending the venue.

However if a large number of users attend a venue congestion may impair many users experience at the venue. For example delays in placing orders with vendors or delays in vendors fulfilling received orders may discourage users from purchasing goods or services from vendors associated with the venue decreasing revenue to the vendor. Similarly delays or congestion when parking at a parking lot associated with a venue may frustrate a user causing the user to seek alternative transportation to the venue which may reduce revenue generated by the venue or prevent the user from subsequently attending the venue.

A venue is a geographic location such as a geographic location associated with one or more structures. Examples of a venue include a stadium a convention center an arena a theater an amphitheater or any other suitable structure or location where people may gather for an event. In various embodiments users obtain a ticket to enter the venue and various events are performed at the venue. Additionally one or more vendors are associated with the venue and provide goods or services to users attending the venue. One or more parking lots each including spaces for one or more vehicles are also associated with the venue to allow users to more easily attend the venue.

To improve user interaction with the venue a venue management system is associated with the venue and maintains information associated with users with vendors associated with the venue and with parking lots associated with the venue. The venue management system communicates information about the venue or about events occurring at the venue to client devices associated with users of the venue management system. Additionally the venue management system receives orders for products or services from users and communicates the received orders to vendors associated with the venue to be fulfilled. Further the venue management system receives information describing previously purchased spaces in various parking lots currently occupied spaces in various parking lots prices associated with various parking lots and capacities associated with various parking lots. Hence the venue management system allows a user to more easily obtain content associated with the venue order products or services from vendors associated with the venue and park in parking lots associated with the venue.

To simplify parking in parking lots associated with the venue the venue management system maintains information identifying parking lots associated with the venue and describing various parking lots. Each parking lot is associated with a lot identifier that uniquely identifies a parking lot with characteristics associated with characteristics of a parking lot stored in association with the parking lot s corresponding lot identifier. Characteristics of a parking lot include a capacity for the parking lot that specifies a maximum number of vehicles capable of being parked in the parking lot and a price associated with the parking lot for allocating a space in the parking lot to a vehicle. Additional characteristics of a parking lot include one or more locations associated with the parking lot e.g. entrances and directions to the one or more locations associated with the parking lot.

Certain characteristics of a parking lot are modified based on information is received by the venue management system from devices or systems associated with the parking lot. As users purchase spaces in a parking lot the venue management system maintains a number of purchased spaces associated with the parking lot. Additionally when a vehicle enters a parking lot information is communicated from the parking lot to the venue management system which maintains a number of vehicles currently occupying the parking lot. For example a ticket is scanned or other information is captured by a device e.g. scanner card reader terminal when a vehicle enters the parking lot and the device communicates an indication that information was captured to the venue management system which increments a number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot.

Based on a number of spaces currently associated with vehicles in various parking lots the venue management system may communicate messages to client devices associated with venue management system users that identify one or more of the parking lots to encourage users to park in one or more of the identified parking lots. In one embodiment the venue management system selects a parking lot based on a difference between a number of previously purchased spaces in the parking lot and a number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot. For example the venue management system selects a parking lot having at least a threshold difference between a number of previously purchased spaces and a number of currently occupied spaces which indicates there are at least the threshold number of unoccupied spaces in the selected parking lot. To increase the number of vehicles in the selected parking lot the venue management system communicates a message to client devices associated with one or more users identifying the selected parking lot. The message may indicate a number of unoccupied spaces in the selected parking lot as well as the price associated with the selected parking lot. To increase the likelihood of the user viewing the message the venue management system may retrieve information associated with the user by the venue management system to select a type of communication channel e.g. e mail text message notification presented by an application associated with the venue management system and executing on client devices for communicating the message to the user. In some embodiments the venue management system modifies the price associated with the selected parking lot to encourage users to park vehicles in spaces of the selected parking lot. For example the venue management system decreases a price of the selected parking lot to increase likelihoods of users purchasing spaces in the selected parking lot.

Additionally the venue management system includes directions to one or more parking lots associated with the venue. For example the venue management system includes one or more maps identifying locations of one or more parking lots along with indications of navigation directions to the locations of the one or more parking lots from positions relative to one or more of the locations e.g. directions from the east of a location directions from the north of a location . The venue management system may also maintain text directions describing navigation directions to locations of one or more parking lots. When a user purchases a space in a parking lot the venue management system stores an association between the user and the parking lot in which a user purchased a space. For example the user identifies a parking lot and communicates a request including payment information and a lot identifier of the parking lot to the venue management system which stores an association between a user identifier of the user and the lot identifier of the parking lot. Subsequently the venue management system receives a location of a client device associated with the user and communicates directions for navigating from the location of the client device to the parking lot corresponding to the lot identifier. For example the venue management system communicates a map identifying a location of the parking lot and navigation information presented on the map to navigate to the location of the parking lot.

The venue management system also receives information describing traffic conditions within a threshold distance of the parking lot associated with the user and determines the directions for communication to the user based at least in part on the traffic conditions. Information describing the traffic conditions includes a number of currently occupied spaces in one or more additional parking lots such as additional parking lots within a threshold distance of the parking lot associated with the user. Based on the information describing the traffic conditions the venue management system may modify the directions to one or more locations associated with the parking lot associated with the user. For example the venue management system modifies the directions to a location associated with the parking lot to avoid one or more additional parking lots with at least a threshold number of currently occupied spaces or to avoid one or more geographic regions having at least a threshold number or density of vehicles. As traffic conditions change the venue management system may further modify the direction to a location associated with the parking lot and communicate the further modified directions to the client device associated with the user allowing a user to bypass congestion when travelling to the parking lot associated with the user.

The figures depict various embodiments for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of described herein.

The venue is a geographic location such as a geographic location associated with one or more structures. Examples of a venue include a stadium a convention center an arena a theater an amphitheater or other suitable structure. In various embodiments users obtain a ticket to enter the venue and various events are performed at the venue. For example a user obtains a ticket to attend an event at the venue that authorizes the user to enter the venue for the event. One or more regions are included in the venue with each region corresponding to an area including a set of locations within the venue . For example different regions correspond to different sections of a stadium different aisles of a stadium or arena different rooms in a convention center or any other suitable area within the venue . In some embodiments an area within the venue is associated with multiple regions having different levels of precision. For example a specific seat in a venue is associated with a region identifying a section including the seat another region identifying an aisle within the section including the seat and an additional region identifying the specific seat. While shows an example venue including three regions A B C in other embodiments a venue may include any number of regions .

One or more vendors are included in the venue with each vendor providing products or services to users within the venue . Examples of vendors include restaurants food service providers beverage providers merchandise retailers or other suitable entities providing products or services. Different vendors may be associated with different regions of the venue. For example a vendor A is associated with a region A while a different vendor B is associated with a different region B. A vendor may be associated with multiple regions for example a vendor C is associated with a region B as well as with an additional region C. In some embodiments a vendor is associated with a region based on a distance between the vendor and the region . For example the vendor is associated with a region having a minimum distance from a location associated with the vendor . If a location associated with a vendor is within a region the vendor is associated with the region including the vendor s associated location.

Additionally one or more parking lots A B C are associated with the venue and identify physical locations for parking vehicles. Each parking lot includes one or more spaces each space for parking a vehicle. A price is associated with each parking lot specifying an amount of compensation a user provides to an entity associated with the venue for a space in the parking lot to be allocated for parking a vehicle associated with the user. Different parking lots may have different distances from the venue and prices associated with different parking lots may be inversely proportional to a distance between a parking lot and the venue . Each parking lot is also associated with a capacity specifying a maximum number of vehicles that may be parked in a parking lot . The capacity may be total number of spaces in the parking lot or may be a maximum number of vehicles. Information may be maintained by one or more devices included in a parking lot specifying a number of spaces in the parking lot in which vehicles are parked specifying a number of vehicles within a geographic area associated with the parking lot or any other suitable information. For example a device included in the parking lot increments a counter when a vehicle enters the geographic area associated with the parking lot or when a vehicle is parked in a space of the parking lot .

A client device is one or more computing devices capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment the client device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop computer or a laptop computer. Alternatively the client device may be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile telephone a smartphone or another suitable device. A client device is configured to communicate with other devices via the network . In one embodiment the client device executes an application allowing a user of the client device to interact with the venue management system . For example the client device executes a browser application to enable interaction with the venue management system or with one or more third party system via the network . In another embodiment a client device interacts with the venue management system through an application programming interface API running on a native operating system of the client device such as IOS or ANDROID .

A display device included in a client device presents content items to a user of the client device . Examples of the display device include a liquid crystal display LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED display an active matrix liquid crystal display AMLCD or any other suitable device. Different client devices may have display devices with different characteristics. For example different client devices have display devices with different display areas different resolutions or differences in other characteristics.

One or more input devices included in a client device receive input from the user. Different input devices may be included in the client device . For example the client device includes a touch sensitive display for receiving input data commands or information from a user. Using a touch sensitive display allows the client device to combine the display device and an input device simplifying user interaction with presented content items. In other embodiments the client device may include a keyboard a trackpad a mouse or any other device capable of receiving input from a user. Additionally the client device may include multiple input devices in some embodiments. Inputs received via the input device may be processed by an application associated with the venue management system and executing on the client device to allow a client device user to exchange information with the venue management system .

Additionally a client device may include one or more position sensors which determine a physical location associated with the client device . For example a position sensor is a global positioning system GPS sensor that determines a location associated with the client device based on information obtained from GPS satellites communicating with the GPS sensor such as coordinates specifying a latitude and longitude of the location associated with the client device . As another example a position sensor determines a location associated with the client device based on intensities of signals received from one or more access points e.g. wireless access points by the client device . In the preceding example the position sensor determines a location associated with the client device based on signal intensity between the client device and one or more wireless access points and service set identifiers SSIDs or media access control MAC addresses of the wireless access points. However the client device may include any suitable type of position sensor . In various embodiments the client device may include multiple position sensors .

The network may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and or wireless communication systems. In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. For example the network includes communication links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G code division multiple access CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Examples of networking protocols used for communicating via the network include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over the network may be represented using any suitable format such as hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In some embodiments all or some of the communication links of the network may be encrypted using any suitable technique or techniques.

One or more third party systems may be coupled to the network for communicating with one or more client devices or with the venue management system . In one embodiment a third party system is an application provider communicating information describing applications for execution by a client device or communicating data to client devices for use by an application executing on the client device . In other embodiments a third party system provides content or other information for presentation via a client device . For example a third party system provides content related to an event occurring at the venue to a client device for presentation to a user as an example the third party system provides video or audio data of a portion of an event occurring at the venue to a client device allowing a user associated with the client device to view the portion of the event from an alternative vantage point than the user s vantage point or to hear commentary about the portion of the event. As another example a third party system is a social networking system maintaining connections between various users and providing content for presentation to users based at least in part on the maintained connections. A third party system may also communicate information to the venue management system which subsequently communicates the information or a portion of the information to one or more client devices via the network .

Additionally one or more vendor systems are coupled to the venue management system via the network or through direct connections between the vendor systems and the vendor management system . A vendor system is associated with a vendor and receives orders for products or services from the venue management system and provides the products or services identified by the orders. Further a vendor system provides the venue management system with information describing fulfilment of orders by a vendor associated with the vendor system . For example the vendor system provides information to the venue management system specifying an estimated time to fulfill subsequently received or pending orders for products or services an average time in which previously received orders were fulfilled a number of unfulfilled orders received by the vendor system or other suitable information. Information provided from the vendor system to the vendor management system accounts for orders received via the vendor management system as well as orders received by the vendor associated with the vendor system from users visiting a location associated with the vendor .

Additionally a vendor system may provide information to the venue management system describing products or services sold by a vendor associated with the vendor system . For example the vendor system identifies a number of different products or services sold by the vendor or identifies an amount of revenue received by the vendor in exchange for different products or services. Information describing sold products or services may be communicated from the vendor system to the venue management system as the products or services are sold or may be communicated from the vendor system to the venue management system at periodic intervals. Additionally the venue management system may request information describing sales of products or services to a vendor system which provides the requested information to the venue management system in response to receiving the request.

The venue management system which is further described below in conjunction with receives content from one or more third party systems or generates content and provides content to users via an application associated with the venue management system and executing on client devices . Additionally the venue management system maintains information associated with one or more parking lots associated with a venue such as a number of spaces in a parking lot currently occupied a price associated with a the parking lot or a number of spaces in the parking lot that have been purchased as well as directions for navigating to a location associated with the parking lot . The venue management system may communicate certain information associated with a parking lot to one or more users such as the price associated with the parking lot or directions to the location associated with the parking lot . Associations between one or more vendors and regions of the venue are also included in the venue management system which also receives orders for products or services from one or more users and communicates the orders to one or more vendors for fulfillment.

Each user of the venue management system is associated with a user profile which is stored in the user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user provided by the user and may also include information inferred by the venue management system from actions associated with the user or from other information. In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user. Examples of information stored in a user profile include demographic information contact information preferences and location information. For example a user profile identifies a region of the venue associated with a user such as a region including a seat associated with a ticket to attend the venue associated with the user. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example image data or video data. Additionally a user profile in the user profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content presented by the venue management system or interactions between the corresponding user captured by one or more vendor systems and communicated to the venue management system . For example a user profile identifies prior orders for products or services the venue management system received from a user and communicated to one or more vendor systems .

In some embodiments a user profile includes a status associated with the user. The venue management system may provide different functionality to a user based on the user s status. For example the venue management system communicates certain types of messages to client devices associated with users having a specific type of status and does not communicate the certain types of messages to client devices associated with users that do not have the specific type of status. As another example the venue management system presents less advertisement content to users having specific statuses. The status may be based on a frequency with which the user is associated with tickets to attend the venue or an amount of money the venue management system has received from the user e.g. based on an amount the user has spent on tickets to attend the venue . Additionally a user may provide an amount of compensation to the venue management system for a specific status to be associated with the user. For example the user provides the venue management system with an amount of compensation per year or per month for the venue management system to associate a specific status with the user.

The content store stores objects that each represent various types of content received from one or more third party systems or generated by the venue management system . Examples of content represented by an object include video data associated with an event occurring at the venue image data associated with an event occurring at the venue audio data associated with an event occurring at the venue text data associated with an event occurring at the venue information associated with the venue or with the location of the venue or other suitable. Additionally content may be received from applications associated with a third party system and executing on client devices associated with users of the venue management system . In one embodiment objects in the content store represent single pieces of content or content items. 

The action log stores information describing actions performed by venue management system users internal to or external to the venue management system . For example actions performed by a user on a third party system that communicates information to the venue management system are stored in the action log along with information describing actions performed by the user through the venue management system . Examples of actions include ordering a product or service from a vendor included in the venue checking into the venue accessing content provided by the venue management system or provided by a third party system that communicates with the venue management system providing a review of a product service or vendor to the venue management system or to a third party system that communicates with the vendor management system providing a comment associated with the venue or with an event occurring at the venue to the venue management system or to a third party system that communicates with the venue management system . However any suitable action may be stored in the action log and associated with a user profile in the user profile store . Information in the action log may identify the user performing an action a type of the action a description of the action a time associated with the action or any other suitable information. In some embodiments data from the action log is used to infer interests or preferences of a user augmenting interests included in the user s user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

The action log may also store user actions taken on a third party system such as an external website and communicated to the venue management system . For example an e commerce website may recognize a user of the venue management system through a plug in enabling the e commerce website to identify the venue management system user. Because users of the venue management system are uniquely identifiable third party systems may communicate information about a user s actions outside of the venue management system to the venue management system for association with the user. Hence the action log may record information about actions users perform on a third party system such as purchases made comments on content or other information a user authorizes a third party system to communicate to the vendor management system .

The location store includes physical locations associated with various regions of the venue . In various embodiments the location store includes a region identifier associated with each region and information identifying a geographic area associated with the region identifier. Any suitable information may identify the geographic area associated with a region identifier. Example information identifying a geographic area of a region include physical coordinates specifying boundaries of a region and an identifier of a portion of the venue including the region . Additionally the location store includes data associating vendors with one or more regions of the venue . A vendor identifier uniquely associated with a vendor is associated with a region identifier with the association stored in the location store . Multiple vendors may be associated with a region of the venue .

In some embodiments the location store also associates location information with users of the venue management system . A client device communicates location information to the venue management system which may store the location information in the location store or in the user profile store in association with the user. Based on the received information the venue management system may determine a region of the venue including the location information and associate the region identifier of the determined region with a user profile corresponding to the user. If the venue management system receives modified location information from the client device the venue management system may modify the determined region if a different region includes the modified location information. Alternatively one or more sensors included in the venue identify a client device and determine a location associated with the client device . Based on the determined location the venue management system identifies a region including the client device and stores a region identifier of the region in association with a user identifier of a user associated with the client device . In various embodiments information identifying a location associated with the client device e.g. latitude and longitude is also stored in the location store in association with an identifier associated with the user associated with the client device . Additionally the venue management system may assign a location to a user and store the assigned location in association with the user in the location store . For example when a user purchases a ticket to enter the venue the ticket is associated with a location assigned to the user and the location store includes information associating the location assigned to the user from the ticket with an identifier associated with the user.

The parking management module includes information identifying parking lots associated with the venue and describing various parking lots . Each parking lot is associated with a lot identifier that uniquely identifies a parking lot . Characteristics of a parking lot are stored in the parking management module in association with a lot identifier corresponding to the parking lot . Characteristics of a parking lot include a capacity for the parking lot that specifies a maximum number of vehicles capable of being parked in the parking lot and a price associated with the parking lot for allocating a space in the parking lot to a vehicle. Additional characteristics of a parking lot include one or more locations associated with the parking lot e.g. entrances and directions to the location associated with the parking lot . Directions from one or more locations associated with the parking lot to the venue may also be maintained by the parking management module .

Certain characteristics of a parking lot are modified based on information is received by the venue management system . As users purchase spaces in a parking lot the parking management module maintains a number of purchased spaces associated with the parking lot . Additionally when a vehicle enters a parking lot information is communicated from the parking lot to the venue management system where the parking management module maintains a number of vehicles currently occupying the parking lot or a number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot . In some embodiments a ticket is scanned or other information is captured by a device e.g. scanner card reader terminal when a vehicle enters the parking lot the device communicates an indication that information was captured to the venue management system causing the parking management module to increment a number of spaces in the parking lot currently associated with vehicles or to increment a number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot . Thus the parking management module maintains a number of spaces in a parking lot that are currently occupied by vehicles and modifies the number of currently occupied spaces as vehicles are parked in the parking lot.

Based on a number of spaces currently associated with vehicles in various parking lots the parking management module may communicate messages to client devices identifying one or more of the parking lots . In one embodiment the parking management module selects a parking lot based on a difference between a number of previously purchased spaces in the parking lot and a number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot . For example the parking management module selects a parking lot having at least a threshold difference between a number of previously purchased spaces and a number of currently occupied spaces which indicates there are at least the threshold number of unoccupied spaces in the selected parking lot . To increase the number of vehicles in the selected parking lot the parking management module the parking management module communicates a message to client devices associated with one or more users identifying the selected parking lot. The message may indicate a number of unoccupied spaces in the selected parking lot as well as the price associated with the selected parking lot . In some embodiments the parking management module modifies the price associated with the selected parking lot to encourage users to park vehicles in spaces of the selected parking lot . For example the parking management module decreases a price of the selected parking lot to increase likelihoods of users purchasing spaces in the selected parking lot . Communicating messages identifying a parking lot to users is further described below in conjunction with .

Additionally the parking management module includes directions to one or more parking lots associated with the venue . For example the parking management module includes one or more maps identifying locations associated with one or more parking lots along with indications of navigation directions to the locations associated with the one or more parking lots . The parking management module may also maintain text directions describing navigation to locations associated with one or more parking lots . When a user purchases a space in a parking lot the parking management system stores an association between a user and the parking lot in which the user purchased the space. For example the user identifies a parking lot and communicates a request including payment information and a lot identifier of the parking lot to the venue management system where the parking management module stores an association between a user identifier of the user and a lot identifier of the parking lot . Subsequently the parking management module receives a location of a client device associated with the user and communicates directions for navigating from the location of the client device to the parking lot corresponding to the lot identifier. For example the parking management module communicates a map identifying a location of the parking lot and navigation information presented on the map to navigate to the location associated with the parking lot to a client device associated with the user.

The parking management module also receives information describing traffic conditions within a threshold distance of the parking lot associated with the user and determines the directions for communication to the user based at least in part on the traffic conditions. Information describing the traffic conditions includes a number of currently occupied spaces in one or more additional parking lots such as additional parking lots within a threshold distance of the parking lot associated with the user. Based on the information describing the traffic conditions the parking management module may modify the directions to one or more locations associated with the parking lot associated with the user. For example the parking management module modifies the directions to a location associated with the parking lot to avoid one or more additional parking lots with at least a threshold number of currently occupied spaces or to avoid one or more geographic regions having at least a threshold number or density of vehicles. As traffic conditions change the parking management module may further modify the direction to a location associated with the parking lot and communicate the further modified directions to the client device associated with the user allowing a user to bypass congestion when travelling to the parking lot associated with the user. Communication of directions to a location of a parking lot is further described below in conjunction with .

The vendor management module receives orders for products or services from client devices associated with users and communicates the orders to one or more vendor systems of vendors associated with the venue . In various embodiments the vendor management module includes vendor profiles each associated with one or more vendors associated with the venue . A vendor profile includes a vendor identifier uniquely identifying a vendor and additional information associated with the vendor such as one or more regions of the venue associated with the vendor and information for communicating with a vendor system associated with the vendor . Further examples of information associated with the vendor and included in a vendor profile include contact information hours of operation a listing of products or services provided by the vendor a current inventory or products maintained by the vendor and a current time for the vendor to fulfill received orders. However in other embodiments additional or different information may be included in the vendor profile. One or more users authorized by the venue management system may communicate information to the vendor management system to modify regions of the venue associated with one or more vendors .

When the vendor management module receives an order identifying a product or service and identifying a vendor from a user the vendor management system communicates the order to a vendor system corresponding to the identified vendor . The vendor may subsequently deliver the product or service identified by the order to the user or may communicate a notification to the user via the venue management system when the order is fulfilled. To expedite delivery of products or services the vendor management module may associate different vendors with different regions or the venue to reduce time for users to receive products or services delivered by vendors . The vendor management module may modify regions of the venue associated with a vendor by modifying identifiers of regions included in a vendor profile of a vendor . In some embodiments the vendor management module modifies regions associated with a vendor based on a number or a frequency of orders received from users associated with different regions as well as time to fulfill orders by different vendors products or services offered by different vendors and number of orders received by different vendors . When modifying regions associated with a vendor or vendors associated with a region the venue management system may account for products or services provided by various vendors so similar products or services are provided to users in a region before and after modification of the vendors associated with the region .

Additionally the vendor management module receives information from a vendor system and communicates the information to one or more client devices for presentation to users. For example the vendor communicates a time to fulfill an order an estimated time to fulfill an order a number of previously received orders that have yet to be fulfilled or other suitable information to the vendor management module which provides at least a subset of the information to a client device for presentation to a user. As another example a vendor system communicates a message to the venue management module including a user identifier an order identifier or a description of an order and an indication that an order corresponding to the order identifier has been fulfilled by a vendor. The vendor management module identifies a user corresponding to the user identifier from the user profile store and communicates the message to a client device associated with the user.

As vendors may deliver products to users in various regions of the venue to fulfill orders received from various users in some embodiments the vendor management module regulates communication of orders received from client devices associated with users to vendor systems associated with various vendors . When the vendor management module receives an order for a product or service from a client device associated with a user the vendor management module stores the received order in a queue for a specified time interval before communicating the order to a vendor system corresponding to a vendor identified by the order. If the vendor management system receives additional orders from users having one or more characteristics matching or similar to the order stored in the queue and identifying the vendor identified by the order while the order is stored in the queue the vendor management module generates a group including the additional orders and the order stored in the queue and communicates the group or orders to a vendor system associated with the vendor to be fulfilled. For example the vendor management system generates a group including additional orders associated with users having a location matching a location of a user associated with an order stored in the queue. As additional examples the vendor management system generates a group including orders identifying products or services matching or similar to a product or service specified by an order stored in the queue or generates a group including orders identifying products or services having times for fulfillment within a threshold value of a time for fulfillment of the order stored in the queue. Communicating a group of orders having one or more matching or similar characteristics to a vendor system allows the vendor associated with vendor system to more efficiently fulfill orders from users.

The content selection module selects one or more content items for communication to a client device for presentation to a user. Content items eligible for presentation to the user are retrieved from the content store from a third party system or from another source by the content selection module which selects one or more of the content items for presentation to the user. A content item eligible for presentation to the viewing user is a content item associated with at least a threshold number of targeting criteria satisfied by characteristics of the user or is a content item that is not associated with targeting criteria. For example a content item associated with targeting criteria specifying a threshold distance of the venue is identified as eligible for presentation to users associated with locations within a threshold distance of the venue . As another example a content item associated with targeting criteria specifying attendance of an event at the venue is identified as eligible for presentation to users attending the event or who have indicated they will attend the event. In various embodiments the content selection module includes content items eligible for presentation to the user in one or more selection processes which identify a set of content items for presentation to the user. For example the content selection module determines a measure of relevance of various content items to a user based on characteristics associated with the user by the venue management system based on actions associated with the user by the venue management system characteristics of the user maintained by the venue management system preferences of the user maintained by the venue management system and characteristics of content items eligible for presentation to the user. For example the content selection module determines measures of relevance to a user based on characteristics of the content items characteristics of the user and actions associated with the user. Based on the measures of relevance the content selection module selects one or more content items for presentation to the user e.g. content items having at least a threshold measure of relevance content items having highest measures of relevance relative to other content items . In some embodiments the content selection module ranks content items based on their associated measures of relevance and selects content items having the highest positions in the ranking or having at least a threshold position in the ranking for presentation to the user.

A content item may be associated with bid amounts specifying an amount of compensation received by the venue management system from a third party system or from a user if one or more criteria associated with the content item are satisfied. For example a bid amount associated with a content item specifies an amount of compensation received by the venue management system when the content item is presented to a user or when a user presented with the content item performs a specified type of interaction with the content item. The content selection module uses the bid amounts associated with various content items when selecting content for presentation to the user. In various embodiments the content selection module determines an expected value associated with various content items based on their bid amounts and selects content items associated with a maximum expected value or associated with at least a threshold expected value for presentation to the user. An expected value associated with a content item represents an expected amount of compensation to the venue management system for presenting a content item. For example the expected value associated with a content item is a product of the content item s bid amount and a likelihood of the user interacting with the content item. The content selection module may rank content items associated with bid amounts separately than content items that are not associated with bid amounts and select content items for presentation based on the separate rankings e.g. content items having at least a threshold position in a ranking .

The web server links venue management system via the network to one or more client devices as well as to one or more third party systems . Additionally the web server may exchange information between the venue management system and one or more vendor systems . The web server serves web pages as well as other content such as JAVA FLASH XML and so forth. The web server may receive and route messages between the venue management system and a client device for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text messages short message service SMS messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. A user may send a request to the web server to upload information e.g. images or videos that are stored in the content store . Additionally the web server may provide application programming interface API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as IOS ANDROID WEBOS or BlackberryOS.

As described above in conjunction with a venue management system maintains information identifying multiple parking lots associated with a venue . In various embodiments the venue management system associates a unique lot identifier with each parking lot . The venue management system maintains information describing a parking lot in association with the lot identifier of the parking lot . In various embodiments the venue management system maintains a capacity of a parking lot which specifies a total number of spaces included in the parking log and a price of the parking lot specifying an amount of compensation for use of a space in the parking lot in association with a lot identifier of the parking lot . Additional information associated with the parking lot may be stored in various embodiments.

Information identifying a number of previously purchased spaces in at least a set of parking lots associated with the venue is obtained by the venue management system . In some embodiments the venue management system obtains a number of previously purchased spaces in each parking lot associated with the venue . The venue management system may receive information from a user identifying a parking lot and payment information and modifies information associated with the parking lot by the venue management system specifying a number of spaces in the parking lot that have been purchased by one or more users. Alternatively the venue management system may obtain information maintained by one or more third party systems that receive information from users identifying one or more parking lots and information from users purchasing spaces in one or more parking lots . For example a third party system receives payment information and parking lot identification information from various users and allocates spaces in parking lots to users based on the payment information. Information identifying a number of spaces in one or more parking lots that have been purchased by users is communicated from the third party system to the venue management system at periodic intervals or when the third party system receives a request for information from the venue management system .

As users park vehicles in spaces of a parking lot a device or system associated with the parking lot identifies a number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot . In various embodiments when a vehicle enters the parking lot a device obtains information from the vehicle or from a user associated with the vehicle and increments a number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot when the information is obtained. For example a device included in the parking lot scans a barcode a quick response QR code or other information from a ticket associated with a user when the user brings a vehicle into the parking lot and increases a number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot after receiving data from the barcode from the QR code or from the other information. Alternatively after parking a vehicle in a space of the parking lot a user identifies a space including the vehicle to a terminal included in the parking lot and the terminal increments a number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot . Hence a device or system associated with a parking lot tracks a number of spaces in the parking lot that are currently occupied by vehicles.

The venue management system obtains information identifying a number of currently occupied spaces in various parking lots associated with the venue from devices or systems associated with the parking lots . In some embodiments the venue management system obtains information from each parking lot associated with the venue . Alternatively the venue management system obtains information from a set of parking lots associated with the venue identifying a number of currently occupied spaces in each of the set of parking lots . For example the venue management system communicates a request for a number of currently occupied spaces in a parking lot to a device or system included in the parking lot or associated with the parking lot . The device or system associated with the parking lot or included in the parking lot communicates a number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot to the venue management system in response to the request. Alternatively the device or system included in or associated with the parking lot communicates a number of occupied spaces in the parking lot to the venue management system when the device or system increments the number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot . In another embodiment the device or system included in or associated with the parking lot periodically communicates the number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot to the venue management system .

Based on the number of previously purchased spaces in various parking lots the number of currently occupied spaces in various parking lots and capacities of various parking lots the venue management system selects a parking lot associated with the venue . In various embodiments the venue management system selects a parking lot having at least a threshold difference between the number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot and the capacity of the parking lot . For example the venue management system determines a difference between the number of currently occupied spaces in a parking lot and a capacity of the parking lot for each parking lot and selects a parking lot having a maximum difference between its number of currently occupied spaces and its maximum capacity. Alternatively the venue management system selects a parking lot having a maximum difference between its currently occupied spaces and its maximum capacity. In other embodiments the venue management system selects a parking lot having at least a threshold difference between a number of previously purchased spaces in the parking lot and a capacity of the parking lot or having a maximum difference between the number of previously purchased spaces in the parking lot and the capacity of the parking lot . Alternatively the venue management system selects a parking lot having at least at threshold difference between a number of previously purchased spaces in the parking lot and a number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot . and capacities of each parking lot or selects a parking lot having a maximum difference between the number of previously purchased spaces in the parking lot and the number of currently occupied spaces in the parking lot . In other embodiments the venue management system ranks various parking lots based on one or more of the above described differences and selects a parking lot having a maximum position in the ranking or selects one or more parking lots having at least a threshold position in the ranking.

As another example the venue management system determines a number of available spaces in various parking lots associated with the venue and also determines a difference between the number of available spaces in a parking lot and the capacity of the parking lot for various parking lots . The number of available spaces in a parking lot is a difference between a capacity of the parking lot and the number of previously purchased spaces in the parking lot . In some embodiments the venue management system determines differences between numbers of available spaces and capacities for each parking lot associated with the venue . Based on the differences between numbers of available spaces and capacities for various parking lots the venue management system selects a parking lot . For example the venue management system selects one or more parking lot having at least a threshold difference between their capacity and their number of previously purchased spaces or selects a parking lot having a maximum difference between its capacity and its number of previously purchased spaces. As another example the venue management system ranks various parking lots based on their differences between their capacities and their numbers of previously purchased spaces and selects one or more parking lots having at least a threshold position in the ranking. In other embodiments the venue management system selects one or more parking lots based on ratios of the number of available spaces in a parking lot to the capacity of the parking lot . For example one or more parking lots having at least a threshold ratio of available spaces to capacities are selected . As another example the vendor management system ranks parking lots based on their ratios of available spaces to capacities e.g. higher ratios have higher positions in the ranking and selects one or more parking lots having at least a threshold position in the ranking. Alternatively the venue management system selects one or more parking lots based on a difference between a number of currently occupied spaces and a number of previously purchased spaces associated with various parking lots or based on a ratio of a number of currently occupied spaces to previously purchased spaces for various parking lots e.g. a parking lot having at least a threshold difference between currently occupied spaces and previously purchased spaces a parking lot having at least a threshold ratio of currently occupied spaces to previously purchased spaces .

In various embodiments the venue management system modifies the price associated with the selected parking lot . For example the venue management system decreases the price associated with the selected parking lot . In some embodiments the amount by which the price associated with the selected parking lot is decreased is based at least in part on a difference between a current time and a time associated with an event occurring at the venue . For example the price associated with the selected parking lot is decreased by a larger amount when there is a smaller difference between a current time and the time associated with the event occurring at the venue . As another example the price associated with the selected parking lot is modified by an amount proportional to a difference between a number of currently occupied spaces in the selected parking lot and a number of previously purchased spaces in the selected parking lot proportional to a difference between a number of previously purchased spaces in the selected parking lot and a capacity of the selected parking lot or proportional to any suitable value. For example a price associated with a selected parking lot is decreased by a larger amount when there is a larger difference between a number of previously purchased spaces in the selected parking lot and a capacity of the selected parking lot .

The venue management system communicates a message to client devices associated with one or more users identifying the selected parking lot . In various embodiments the message also identifies the modified price associated with the selected parking lot . Additionally the message identifies a difference between a number of previously purchased spaces in the selected parking lot and a capacity of the selected parking lot to identify a number of available spaces in the selected parking lot in various embodiments. The message may also identify a number of currently occupied spaces in the selected parking lot in some embodiments.

Characteristics associated with a user may be used by the venue management system to determine whether to communicate the message to a client device associated with the user. For example the venue management system identifies users having a specific status included in their user profiles and communicate the message to client devices associated with users having the specific status included in their user profiles. An alternative message or no message may be communicated to users that do not have the specific status included in their user profile. As another example the venue management system determines locations of client devices associated with various users of the venue management system and determines distances between the locations of the client devices and the location of the selected parking lot . The venue management system communicate the message to client devices having locations within a threshold distance of the location of the selected parking lot . Locations of client devices relative to other parking lots associated with the venue may also be used when communicating the message to a client device . In one embodiment the venue management system determines distances between locations of client devices and a location of an additional parking lot associated with a price lower than the modified price of the selected parking lot . The venue management system communicate the message to client devices associated with locations that are at least a threshold distance from the location of the additional parking lot . This allows the venue management system to notify users of the selected parking lot before the users reach the additional parking lot which may encourage users to park in the selected parking lot and increase revenue to the venue management system by paying the modified price associated with the selected parking lot rather than the lower price associated with the additional parking lot .

Various communication channels may be used by the venue management system to communicate the message to client devices associated with users of the venue management system . In various embodiments the message is communicated to client devices via a text message an e mail message a notification presented via an application associated with the venue management system executing on a client device or any other suitable communication channel. Different communication channels may be used to communicate the message to client devices associated with different users. One or more settings included in a user profile associated with a user may specify communication preferences for the user such as a type of communication channel for communicating the message identifying the selected parking lot to the user. For example based on user profile information associated with a user the venue management system communicate the message to a client device associated the user via a text message while based on user profile information associated with another user the venue management system communicates the message to a client device associated with the other user via a notification presented by an application associated with the venue management system executing on the client device .

As described above in conjunction with the venue management system maintains information identifying multiple parking lots associated with a venue . Information associated with a parking lot includes directions to one or more locations associated with the parking lot . Directions to the parking lot may be text directions describing navigation to a location associated with the parking lot e.g. one or more entrances to the parking lot from various positions relative to the location associated with the parking lot or image data e.g. a map identifying the parking lot and identifying directions to the location associated with the parking lot from one or more positions relative to the location associated with the parking lot . For example directions to the location parking lot identify directions to a location associated with the parking lot from north south east or west of the location associated with the parking lot . Directions to the one or more locations associated with the parking lot are stored by the venue management system in association with a lot identifier corresponding to the parking lot .

When a user purchases a space in the parking lot the venue management system receives a description of the purchase identifying the user and identifying the parking lot . For example the user purchases the space in the parking lot via the venue management system by identifying the parking lot and providing a user identifier e.g. an e mail address a username or other information identifying the user to the venue management system . The user may provide payment information to the venue management system when purchasing the space in the parking lot as well. Alternatively the user selects the parking lot and provides information identifying the user to a third party system which communicates a lot identifier associated with the parking lot and information identifying the user to the venue management system if the user selects the parking lot via a third party system the user may provide payment information for the space in the parking lot to the third party system rather than to the venue management system . In other embodiments the venue management system maintains information associating the user with a parking lot such as a parking lot associated with a ticket to the venue previously purchased by the user e.g. a parking lot associated with users who have pre purchased tickets to multiple events at the venue . Hence the venue management system receives a request including user identifying information and a lot identifier and stores an association between the user and the parking lot based on the user identifying information and the lot identifier. For example the venue management system stores a pair including user identifying information and the lot identifier.

After storing the association between the user and the parking lot the venue management system subsequently receives a location of a client device associated with the user. For example the user communicates a request for directions to the parking lot from the client device that includes a location of the client device . Alternatively the client device communicates its location to the venue management system at periodic intervals or the client device communicates its location to the venue management system in response to a request from the venue management system received by the client device . In some embodiments the client device communicates its location to the venue management system when the client device determines it is within a threshold distance of the venue or within a threshold distance of a location associated with the parking lot .

Based on the location of the client device associated with the user the venue management system determines directions for navigating from the location of the client device to a location associated with the parking lot associated with the user. In one embodiment the client device determines a position of the location of the client device relative to a location associated with the parking lot and retrieves directions to the location associated with the parking lot from the relative position of the location of the client device to the location associated with the parking lot . For example if the venue management system determines the location of the client device is west of the location of the parking lot the venue management system retrieves directions to the location of the parking lot from west of the location of the parking lot associated with the parking lot by the venue management system .

In some embodiments the venue management system also receives information describing traffic conditions within a threshold distance of one or more locations associated with the parking lot . The information describing traffic conditions may be received from client devices associated with various users of the venue management system or from one or more third party systems . Additionally the information describing traffic conditions identifies a number of spaces in one or more additional parking lots associated with the venue that are currently occupied received from one or more systems associated with the additional parking lots . In some embodiments the information describing the traffic conditions includes a number of spaces currently occupied in the parking lot as well as numbers of spaces currently occupied in additional parking lots within a threshold distance of the parking lot . Based on the traffic conditions within the threshold distance of the parking lot the venue management system determines modified directions to the location associated with the parking lot . In some embodiments if one or more parking lots within the threshold distance of the parking lot have ratios of their currently occupied spaces to their capacities equaling or exceeding a threshold value the venue management system determines modified directions to the location associated with the parking lot that direct the user away from the parking lots with ratios equaling or exceeding the threshold value. As another example if one or more parking lots within the threshold distance of the parking lot have ratios of their previously purchased spaces to their capacities equaling or exceeding a threshold value the venue management system determines modified directions to the location associated with the parking lot the direct the user away from the parking lots with the ratios equaling or exceeding the threshold value. Alternatively the venue management system determines modified directions the location associated with the parking lot that direct the user away from one or more additional parking lots having at least a threshold number of currently occupied spaces the threshold number of currently occupied spaces may be modified by the venue management system based on one or more criteria e.g. difference between a current time and a time of an event associated with the venue number of spaces in various additional parking lots that have been previously purchased etc. 

Hence the venue management system determines modified direction to the location associated with the parking lot that bypass congestion identified by the traffic conditions. For example the venue management system obtains information from one or more client devices or from a third party system identifying geographic areas having at least a threshold number of vehicles or at least a threshold density of vehicles in the geographic areas and determines modified directions to the location associated with the parking lot that avoid the identified geographic areas. As another example the venue management system obtains information from one or more client devices or from a third party system identifying a rate at which vehicles change position over various time intervals along one or more paths and determines modified directions to the location associated with the parking lot based at least in part on the rates at which vehicles change position along various paths e.g. determines modified direction to the location as a path having at least a threshold rate at which vehicles change position or having a maximum rate at which vehicles change position . In some embodiments the modified directions augment the directions associated with additional directions to avoid congestion. Alternatively the modified directions may be alternative directions based on the location of the client device the traffic conditions and one or more locations associated with the parking lot . For example the modified directions are alternative directions to a location associated with the parking lot based on the traffic conditions and a position of the client device relative to a location of the parking lot .

The venue management system communicates the modified directions to the client device for presentation to the user. If the venue management system receives additional information describing traffic conditions after communicating the modified directions to the client device the venue management system determines alternative directions from the location of the client device to the location of the parking lot and communicates the alternative directions to the client device for presentation. This allows the venue management system to update the user with directions to a location associated with the parking lot that allow the user reduce or avoid delays in reaching the location associated with the parking lot as traffic conditions change. Similarly alternative directions may be communicated to the client device by the venue management system if the location of the client device changes. For example if a position of the client device relative to a location associated with the client device changes the venue management system communicates alternative directions to the client device for presentation.

In some embodiments when the venue management system determines a current location of the client device is within a geographic area associated with the parking lot the venue management system determines directions from a location associated with parking lot to the venue . The directions from the location associated with the parking lot to the venue may be similar to directions to the one or more locations associated with the parking lot . In various embodiments the directions are text or image data providing directions to the venue from various orientations relative to the venue e.g. north south east west . For example the venue management system receives a location of the client device at a periodic interval and compares the location of the client device to various locations or to a geographic area associated with the parking lot . If the location of the client device matches a location associated with the parking lot or is within a geographic area associated with the parking lot the venue management system determines directions from a location associated with parking lot to the venue . Alternatively the user communicates a request for directions to the venue that includes the location of the client device to the venue management system . In some embodiments the venue management system determines a location associated with a parking lot having a minimum distance or having a threshold distance to a location of the client device associated with the user from the request and determines directions from the location associated with the parking lot having the minimum distance or having the threshold distance to the venue .

When determining directions from the location associated with the parking lot to the venue the venue management system may account for locations of additional client devices associated with additional users. For example the venue management system determines densities of client devices within various geographic areas between the parking lot and the venue and determines directions from the location associated with the parking lot based at least in part on densities of client devices in the various geographic areas. For example the venue management system determines directions from the location associated with the parking lot to the venue that direct a user away from geographic regions between the venue and the location associated with the parking lot having greater than a threshold density of client devices in the geographic regions. In some embodiments the venue management system determines rates of change in location for various client devices during various time intervals and determines directions from the location associated with the parking lot to the venue based at least in part on the rates of change in locations for various client devices . For example the venue management system determines directions from the location associated with the parking lot to the venue that direct the user along one or more paths where the rates of change in location for various client devices equals or exceeds a threshold value. As movement of client devices or density of client devices in geographic regions between the location associated with the parking lot changes over time the venue management system may modify the directions to the venue from the location associated with the parking lot and communicate the modified direction to the client device for presentation. Hence the venue management system may provide direction for a user to walk or otherwise travel from a location associated with the parking lot to the venue that account for movement of other users in geographic areas between the location of the parking lot and the venue to allow the user to avoid congestion and more quickly reach the venue from the location of the parking lot .

When determining directions to a location associated with a parking lot for communication to a user the venue management system accounts for traffic conditions within a threshold distance of the parking lot . The traffic conditions account for a number of vehicles currently occupying additional parking lots associated with the venue such as additional parking lots within a threshold distance of a parking lot associated with a user. Referring to if a user is associated with parking lot B the venue management system determines a number of currently occupied spaces associated with each of parking lot A and parking lot C as parking lot A and parking lot C are within a threshold distance of parking lot B. If parking lot A has at least a threshold number of currently occupied spaces and parking lot C has less than the threshold number of currently occupied spaces the vendor management system determines there is a high likelihood of congestion if travelling along directions to the location associated with parking lot B because of the proximity of directions to directions and the likelihood of more than a threshold number of vehicles travelling along directions . Accordingly in the preceding example the venue management system communicates directions to a client device associated with a user to direct the user to the location associated with parking lot B using directions where the user is less likely to encounter delays from congestion by vehicles traveling to an additional parking lot .

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

