---

title: Document management system user interfaces
abstract: Systems, methods, and software to provide document management system user interfaces to clients. Some embodiments include an intermediary server to provide document management system indexing data to a client in a form that is displayable within an existing client file browsing user interface, such as Windows Explorer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09479493&OS=09479493&RS=09479493
owner: UNITED SERVICES AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION
number: 09479493
owner_city: San Antonio
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140416
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 401 577 filed Feb. 21 2012 which is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 321 478 filed Dec. 29 2015 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 122 070 issued Feb. 21 2012 which is related to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 321 219 titled Document Management System User Interfaces filed on Dec. 29 2005 and is also related to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 321 139 titled Document Management System User Interfaces filed on Dec. 29 2005.

The present subject matter relates to data processing and more particularly to document management system user interfaces.

Document management systems are becoming increasingly more common across organizations of all sizes. Organizations are utilizing document management systems as a tool to store documents of many types. Commonly a single employee can generate several documents a day. Further some documents such as invoices or periodic account statements are generated by automated process in large numbers and stored in the organizational document management system. Thus the number of stored documents increases over time.

Documents are generally stored by document management systems in a linear fashion as documents are generated. File names typically are concise and are not descriptive of a document to an extent to allow easy searches. Thus although some document management systems may use a folder directory structure that might provide partial insight about a document the full details are not apparent at the individual document level.

Document management solutions generally involves end user training in the new user interface terminology and functionality available in a document management system it might also require a software to be installed a thick client on each of the users boxes.

To organize documents document management systems commonly include a database structure that stores metadata describing stored documents. To retrieve a document a user generally utilizes a software component that must be loaded on the user s desktop. The user then utilizes that software component by entering data into a searching user interface regarding a needed document. This searching user interface of a document management system includes different fields in which to enter data descriptive of a document sought. After entering the information a list of documents is retrieved and presented to the user in yet another user interface. However the user may not have access to all of the documents displayed. Thus document management systems despite providing certain benefits create additional support and training issues for organizations.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the inventive subject matter may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice them and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that structural logical and electrical changes may be made without departing from the scope of the inventive subject matter. Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to individually and or collectively herein by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed.

The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the inventive subject matter is defined by the appended claims.

The functions or algorithms described herein are implemented in hardware software or a combination of software and hardware in one embodiment. The software comprises computer executable instructions stored on computer readable media such as memory or other type of storage devices. The term computer readable media is also used to represent carrier waves on which the software is transmitted. Further such functions correspond to modules which are software hardware firmware or any combination thereof. Multiple functions are performed in one or more modules as desired and the embodiments described are merely examples. The software is executed on a digital signal processor ASIC microprocessor or other type of processor operating on a system such as a personal computer server a router or other device capable of processing data including network interconnection devices.

Some embodiments implement the functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the exemplary process flow is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

Various embodiments as described herein provide a user interface to a user of a document and record management system such as Documentum available from EMC Inc. of Hopkinton Mass. In some such embodiments such as the user interface example embodiment illustrated in the user interface provides the user a tree view structure from which to locate and access documents and records. This tree view structure allows the user to drill down through the various levels of the tree view structure to locate and access located documents and records. In some embodiments documents can also be saved into the document management system using the user interface via a drag and drop action or a file save action of an application.

In some embodiments this tree view structure is integrated within an operating system user interface without the need for any specific software to be deployed to the client. For example the tree view structure can be displayed within a drive folder file user interface such as the Windows Explorer user interface of the Microsoft Windows operating system family or a file save interface of an application. The highest level of the tree view can be displayed and represented as a drive or network storage location and the lower levels can be displayed as folders within the drive or network storage location representation. Selection of a folder such as folder causes files such as file to be displayed within the user interface . Selection of the file causes the operating system to open the file and display it to the user. In some embodiments only documents and records a user is allowed to access are provided to a user. In some other embodiments the user is only allowed to open records in a read only mode.

In some embodiments documents can be saved to folders within the user interface . Some embodiments allow documents to be added to folders via a drag and drop action and via a file save action from within an application. In some such embodiments when a document is added to a folder such as folder the document is saved to the document management system with the same properties that define the folder. For example if all documents within a folder are read only a document added to that folder will be stored in the document management system as read only.

One example client is in the form of a computer. The client includes an operating system that controls client operation. The client can include a processing unit memory removable storage and non removable storage. The memory can include volatile memory and non volatile memory. The client can include or have access to a computing environment that includes a variety of computer readable media such as volatile memory and non volatile memory removable storage and non removable storage. Client storage includes random access memory RAM read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technologies compact disc read only memory CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium capable of storing machine readable instructions. The client can also include or have access to a computing environment that includes input output and a communication connections. The client can operate in a networked environment using a communication connection to connect to one or more remote computers such as database servers intermediary server and other network resources. The communication connection can include a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN or other networks.

Machine readable instructions stored on a machine readable medium are executable by the processing unit of the client . A hard drive CD ROM and RAM are some examples of articles including a machine readable medium. The term machine readable medium is also used to represent carrier waves on which the software is transmitted. For example a computer program capable of providing a generic technique to perform access control check for data access and or for doing an operation on one of the servers in a component object model COM based system according to the teachings of the present invention may be included on a CD ROM and loaded from the CD ROM to a hard drive. The machine readable instructions allow the client to provide generic access controls in a COM TCP IP Server Message Block SMB or other protocol based or protocol hybrid network system having multiple users and servers.

One example document management system stores documents in a document storage module and indexes data describing documents in a document indexing database . In some embodiments the document management system is Documentum. The document management system stores documents and makes them available on the network through a document management system interface.

In some embodiments document indexing data stored in the document indexing database is stored in a hierarchical fashion. The hierarchical fashion can be facilitated by a hierarchical database a relational database with data arranged in a hierarchical fashion or other database that facilitates storage of hierarchical data. One such hierarchical storage structure includes a client at the top of the hierarchy with client account types under the client. Under a client account type are one or more accounts of that type. Under a client account are documents associated with that account. This hierarchical structure facilitates display of the document indexing data in a tree view structure or other hierarchical data display. Data from the hierarchical structure can then be retrieved from the document indexing database by layer one layer multiple layers or all layers at a time.

One example intermediary server is a server that provides computing services on the network . Some such computing services include application hosting services SMB file sharing services Common Internet File System CIFS file sharing services and other services and combinations of services. An example server is JLAN Server version 3.4 available from Starlasoft.

In some embodiments the intermediary server services document management system document indexing data requests from the client . The intermediary server in some embodiments accesses the document indexing data from the document indexing database of the document management system . In other embodiments the intermediary server accesses the document indexing data from a document indexing database copy . After obtaining data requested by the client the intermediary server serves the requested data to the client . The document indexing data served to the client can be encoded according to a protocol such as SMB to cause the documents represented by the document indexing data to appear as documents available on a network drive.

In some embodiments the client receives the document indexing data from the intermediary server and displays the data to a user within a user interface such as user interface of . In some embodiment the user interface is a client operating system user interface that displays the content of local or network drives such as the Windows Explorer interface of Microsoft Windows operating systems.

In other embodiments the user interface is presented within another client program such as Microsoft Outlook.

In some Outlook embodiments such as embodiments utilizing Outlook the Integrated File Management IFM functionality is leveraged. The IFM functionality allows users to follow a specific link added to Outlook to navigate the Windows File System and network share drives using Outlook. The specific link is directed to the intermediary server . This provides seamless integration of Outlook to the document management system via the intermediary server .

In some other Outlook embodiments such as embodiments utilizing Outlook which no longer includes the IFM functionality with the standard product a folder homepage is used. The folder homepage within Outlook links to an HTML page on a file server or a web server. This HTMI page utilizes a component that provides browser based local file system access. In one embodiment the component is ShellView Pack 6.1 available from Sky Software www.ssware.com .

In some other Outlook embodiments the Microsoft Outlook interface provides functionality through the use of controls plugins or Microsoft Outlook enhancements. Such enhancements provide the ability to users to drag and drop files to and from the document management system perform document searches open documents and other actions.

A client user in some embodiments can select a document representation derived from the document indexing data in the user interface and access the document. In some embodiments the document is retrieved directly from the document management system such as directly from the document storage module . In some embodiments the document is retrieved directly from location the document management system causes the document to be stored wherein the location the document is stored is identified in the document indexing data the client received from the intermediary server.

This example embodiment is established by having the JLAN SMB server on a remote machine acting as a file share while modification of the JLAN SMB server provides interaction with the Documentum Content Server . The JLAN SMB server is Java based and thus can run on any platform with a Java runtime environment. This embodiment can provide capabilities including document versioning browsing and access among other capabilities control through a simple client user interface. The end user experience while interacting with the Documentum Content Server is the same as using a standard file share user interface.

In some embodiments the client is a Microsoft Windows client that supports one of the SMB Dialects supported by the JLAN SMB server . In some embodiments this is all that is need for the client to be operative within the system .

The JLAN SMB server is an extensible Java based SMB server and can be run on any of multiple platforms. In some embodiments the JLAN SMB server is implemented behind a load balancing fail over switch to provide load balancing and or failover robustness between multiple JLAN SMB servers .

In a typical JLAN SMB server file operations such as openFile closeFile readFile writeFile treeOpen treeClose and other operations are mapped to a file system. The methods behind these operations in the JLAN SMB server of the present system embodiment are modified to make corresponding calls to DocBroker associated with the Documentum Content Server using Java based Documentum Foundation Class DFC 5.1.2 application programming interface . This results in a mapping between the file operations on the JLAN SMB server and the Documentum Content Server and allows the client to interact directly with Documentum.

The JLAN SMB server accesses a document indexing database copy via a database connectivity protocol such as Java Data Base Connectivity JDBC . The document indexing database copy is a copy of all or a portion of the document indexing database associated with the Documentum Content Server . The JLAN SMB server accesses the document indexing database to retrieve document index data in response to a request from the client . This reduces latency in the document indexing database can provide quicker client access to the indexing data and provides further benefits. The JLAN SMB server services the client requests with the retrieved data.

In some embodiments the document indexing data provided to the client includes a handle to enable the client to access documents represented in the retrieved document indexing data directly from a Documentum file store .

In some embodiments a client document index data request includes user or client data access credentials which are used by the SMB JLAN SMB server to retrieve only documents the user or client has access to. The use of these data access credentials in some embodiments further includes providing a user or the client with read only or other limited document privileges. These abilities provide functionality to embodiments that require documents to remain in a certain state such as a quarterly statement maintained for historical purposes or when certain users or clients do not have authority to perform certain actions with or to documents. In some embodiments documents that are read only are displayed to on the client under a root drive or folder in a tree view structure indicating the documents are read only. Further embodiments include displaying documents under a root drive or folder in a tree view structure indicating the documents are editable. Folder and file names displayed on the client in some such embodiments provide context to documents displayed within folders and to actual documents via displayed file names. This quickly enables a client user to visualize document properties.

A further result of providing the document index data to the client through the JLAN SMB server is that the client can perform a document search using a standard client operating system file search utility. In some embodiments the client includes a Microsoft Windows operating system and the document indexing data can be searched using the search utility within Windows Explorer.

In some embodiments the example method includes storing documents within a document management system and generating an index of documents stored within the document management system . The method further includes receiving a document index data request from a client at an intermediary server and servicing the document index data request from the intermediary server wherein servicing the request includes serving data to be displayed within an operating system user interface. Some embodiments of the method further include maintaining a copy of the document index in a document indexing database outside of the document management system and accessible to the intermediary server and retrieving requested document indexing data from the document indexing database.

Yet further embodiments of the method include receiving requested document indexing data at the client from the intermediary server and accessing by the client a document stored in the document management system directly from the document management system . In some embodiments accessing the document directly from the document management system includes accessing the document from a location where the document management system causes the document to be stored.

The method includes receiving a request for document management system document indexing data from a requestor over a network and retrieving the document indexing data from a document management system document indexing database . The method further includes encoding the retrieved data according to a protocol wherein the encoded data appears as data available on a network drive and sending the encoded data to the requestor over the network .

In some embodiments receiving a request for document management system document indexing data includes receiving user credential data. In some such embodiments retrieving the document indexing data includes retrieving the document indexing data of documents to which the user credentials provide access privileges.

In some embodiments of the method the network is the Internet. In various other embodiments the network include one or more networks such as a local area network a wide area network a global network a system area network the Internet and a public switched telephone network interconnecting two or more computing resources and other networks capable of transporting data between computing resources.

In some embodiments the example method includes receiving SMB data derived from a document management system index database and displaying the SMB data within an operating system user interface that provides access to files stored in a networked environment . In some such embodiments the SMB data provides a handle to a document stored by the document management system. In some embodiments the method includes requesting the SMB data . In some embodiments the SMB data is requested from the document management system. In other embodiments the SMB data is requested from a network resource other than the document management system such as from an intermediary server.

It is emphasized that the Abstract is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an Abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature and gist of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims.

In the foregoing Detailed Description various features are grouped together in a single embodiment to streamline the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments of the invention require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

It will be readily understood to those skilled in the art that various other changes in the details material and arrangements of the parts and method stages which have been described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of this invention may be made without departing from the principles and scope of the invention as expressed in the subjoined claims.

