---

title: System and method for using television schedule information
abstract: A television schedule system and method for displaying television schedule information on a television screen includes a program guide having a schedule information area that depicts the programs that are being presented on each channel at each time during the day. An input device allows the viewer to browse through the schedule information area and/or obtain more information about programs of particular interest. In one aspect, the viewer may watch a program on the currently-tuned channel, while browsing through the other channels on a portion of the television screen. In another aspect, the viewer may watch programs currently being shown on the television, while he or she browses through the program guide. In yet another aspect, the system includes a database, a processor and associated software for automatically customizing the television schedule guide to an individual viewer or a group of viewers, e.g., a family, to facilitate use of the television schedule.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09402102&OS=09402102&RS=09402102
owner: Rovi Guides, Inc.
number: 09402102
owner_city: San Carlos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141222
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 036 721 filed on Feb. 28 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 918 809 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 894 687 filed on Aug. 20 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 181 200 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 502 691 filed on Aug. 11 2006 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 406 745 filed on Apr. 3 2003 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 962 692 filed on Sep. 25 2001 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 847 726 filed on Apr. 28 1997 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 323 911 and claims priority of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 023 651 filed on Jun. 17 1996 each of which is fully incorporated herein by reference in its respective entirety.

This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 837 025 filed Apr. 11 1997 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 388 714 and Appendices A B and C of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 837 025 each of which is fully incorporated herein by reference in its respective entirety.

The present invention generally relates to television schedule information and more particularly to a system and method for displaying a television program guide on a television screen.

As the number of television stations in a metropolitan area or on a cable network has increased the number of programs of potential interest that are presented to a viewer has risen dramatically. With the use of dish antennas capable of receiving direct satellite signals the multitude of programs available to the viewer has further increased. Consequently television schedule systems that are provided directly on the viewer s television screen have been developed to assist the viewer in sorting through these various programs and determining which programs to watch or record. One such television schedule system is disclosed in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 5 353 121 Young et al. the complete disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. In one embodiment of Young the television schedule includes a series of menu screens having an array of cells corresponding to different television programs. The viewer may scroll through the cells to view which television programs are being presented on various channels at various times. In addition the viewer may select certain cells to obtain more information on the associated program or to pull up other submenus with additional options.

The recent development of television schedule systems such as the above described patent to Young have created many new challenges. One such challenge is providing a system and method that allows the viewer to quickly and efficiently navigate through the various menus and submenus of the schedule guide and to interact with the items contained therein. Ideally the system and method would provide the viewer with the ability to browse through the television guide and or perform various actions while still displaying the currently tuned program on the television screen so that the viewer can keep track of the program. In addition it would be desirable to provide a system that can be customized for an individual and or a group of viewers.

The present invention provides a system and method for displaying schedule information on a visual interface such as a television screen a computer monitor or the like. The present invention also provides a system and method for allowing the viewer to navigate and interact with a program guide that is displayed for example on the viewer s television screen. The program guide will usually include a schedule information area that depicts the programs that are being presented on each channel at each time during the day with an input device such as a remote control device pointing device mouse keyboard microphone or the like the viewer can browse through the schedule information area and or obtain more information about programs of particular interest.

In one aspect of the invention a system and method is provided for allowing the viewer to watch a program on the currently tuned channel of a television while browsing through the other channels on a portion of the television screen. The system includes a browsing window for displaying program information over a portion of the television screen in conjunction with the primary display. The browsing window is usually smaller than the main program guide and located in a convenient place on the television screen e.g. in a corner so that the viewer can simultaneously view the primary display and the browsing window. The browsing window includes an active window for displaying programs on channels other than the currently tuned channel and an input device for switching the program that is displayed on the active window. In a preferred configuration the browsing window further includes an information window for allowing the viewer to access a television schedule program guide and to obtain more information on the program that is shown in the active window.

In another aspect of the invention a system and method is provided for allowing the viewer to watch programs currently being shown on the television while the viewer browses through the program guide. In this embodiment the program guide includes a smaller active window for displaying a program that is currently being shown on a television channel. The input device has a controller for interacting with the active window to control the program that is shown therein. For example the active window may show the program on the currently tuned channel i.e. the channel that the viewer was watching prior to activating the program guide. Alternatively the active window may show the programs that the viewer selects in the program information area. In this embodiment each program title is contained within a cell or window. As the controller moves a cursor for example to each cell within the program information area the program displayed on the active window will change so that the program displayed on the active window corresponds to the program title within the cell containing the cursor.

In yet another aspect of the invention a system and method are provided for indicating the amount of time left in each program in the program guide. In this embodiment the program guide includes a matrix of cells with each cell containing information associated with a television program and having a length that is proportional to a length of the television program. Each cell will include a visual display for displaying an amount of time left in the associated television program. For example the visual display can be a physical icon indicating the amount of time left in the program. Alternatively each cell can be highlighted in such a way that either the highlighted or non highlighted portion of the cell represents the amount of time left in the associated television program. In the latter embodiment the highlighted or non highlighted portion of the cell will be reduced with time to continuously indicate the amount of time left in the associated program.

In yet another aspect of the invention a system and method is provided for automatically or manually customizing the television schedule guide to an individual viewer or a group of viewers e.g. a family. In this embodiment the program guide includes a matrix of cells with each cell containing information associated with a television program. The input device includes a controller for moving a cursor to each cell and for selecting the television program associated with each cell. The system further includes a memory for storing the television programs that have been selected by the viewer. The programs can be selected for a variety of reasons such as designating the program as a favorite placing a reminder to watch the program or when the television schedule system includes a recording device placing an automatic reminder to the program guide to record the program.

In a specific configuration the system further includes a visual display such as a physical icon within the program s cell for indicating that a program has been selected. In addition the program guide includes a selection window that displays some or all of the programs that have been selected by the viewer. The input device will allow the viewer to activate and deactivate the selection window and to move between each program within the selection window and activate programs to obtain information associated with the selected program.

In a preferred embodiment the system includes a database containing each program within the television schedule. The database may be included within a computer integrally combined with the television e.g. PCTV a computer that is coupled to the television through suitable lines or the database may be accessed from a remote computer e.g. via the internet or other communication medium. Within the database each program is associated with a variety of criteria or features such as particular actors actresses directors the type of movie e.g. action comedy and the like. When the viewer selects a program as a favorite for example he or she will have the option of designating the criteria or reason s that the program is a favorite i.e. actor director etc. . In an exemplary embodiment the computer will include a processor and suitable software for automatically searching the database for other programs having the same criteria. The processor may then place the programs that include the designated criteria into the selection window and provide visual indication of each program in the matrix of cells in the program guide. In this way the program guide will automatically customize itself to the individual viewer to facilitate use of the television schedule.

The present invention provides a schedule system and method for displaying schedule information on a visual interface such as a television screen computer monitor or the like. The system and method is particularly useful for use with television schedule information. The television schedule information will be presented in a program guide having a schedule information area depicting the program that are being shown on each channel for a period of time e.g. a day week or longer. In one aspect of the invention the viewer may watch a program on the currently tuned channel while browsing through the other channels on a portion of the television screen. In another aspect of the invention the viewer may watch programs currently being shown on the television while he or she browses through the program guide. In yet another aspect of the invention the system includes a database a processor and associated software for automatically customizing the television schedule guide to an individual viewer or a group of viewers e.g. a family to facilitate use of the television schedule.

The television schedule system will include an input device such as a remote control device pointing device mouse keyboard microphone or the like to allow the user to browse through the schedule information area and or obtain more information about programs of particular interest. In a specific configuration the input device will comprise a housing or casing and an input assembly on the exterior surface of the casing. The casing will usually resemble the generally rectangular shape of typical television remote control devices. However the casing may also be similar to other convention input devices such as a mouse a joystick a computer keyboard etc. or the casing may have a specialized non conventional shape. The casing will include a controller for allowing the television viewer to move along the television screen either freely or through specific areas or windows on the screen. The controller may comprise a trackball cursor controller pointing device a microphone for allowing voice activation a number of keys or buttons that function to move the viewer around the screen or the like. In the preferred embodiment the controller comprises a scrolling mechanism for displacing a movable cursor through a matrix of cells or windows on the screen. The cursor may comprise a physical icon on the screen or it may be represented by highlighting or other visual indications of the cells or windows that are scrolled through by the viewer.

Referring to the drawings in detail wherein like elements are indicated by like numerals a representative remote control device for facilitating the use of television schedule system of the present invention is illustrated. Of course it should be clearly understood that the remote control device shown in is merely representative of one type of remote control device that may be used with the present invention.

As shown in remote control device generally comprises a casing having a viewer input assembly for controlling a television computer or VCR and for utilizing television schedule information on a television screen as discussed below. Input assembly generally includes a cursor control assembly for displacing a cursor on a display screen such as a television screen and a plurality of dedicated function buttons i for performing various functions such as changing channels operating a VCR changing the volume etc. In addition dedicated function buttons may be used for other interactions requiring numeric input such as inputting security codes credit card numbers etc.

As shown in remote control device further includes an RF transmitter for transmitting signals generated by the viewer through viewer input assembly to for example a processor within a personal computer a television or a VCR. RF transmitter may be substituted with for example IR emitters modulated light signals i.e. a signal sent to optical fiber or even a hardware connection. Remote control device will also include a power source such as a battery not shown .

Referring to the cursor control assembly of the present invention will now be described in detail. Cursor control assembly includes a local controller for moving the cursor within a designated screen area or window on the display screen and a global controller for navigating among different windows on the display screen as discussed in further detail below. Local controller comprises a vertical scroll mechanism for scrolling cursor in the y direction or vertically through an individual window or menu. The vertical scroll mechanism is preferably a rolling cylinder rotatably mounted to casing around an axis perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of casing . Rotation of cylinder moves the cursor vertically through the window or menu of the display screen. In a preferred embodiment the window will be made up of at least a vertical column of cells and cylinder button will move the cursor up and down the column. Rolling cylinder preferably includes means for providing tactile feedback to the viewer so that cylinder to facilitate operation of cylinder without looking at remote control device i.e. so the viewer can look at the television screen . In the preferred configuration cylinder includes a plurality of detents or ridges on its outer surface that indicate to the viewer either by tactile feel or by sound that the cursor is moving through each cell in the window or menu.

Local controller further includes a horizontal scroll mechanism for moving the cursor in an x direction or horizontally across the display screen. As shown in the horizontal scroll mechanism preferably includes first and second buttons located on either side of rolling cylinder . Depressing buttons moves the cursor left or right across a row of items in an individual window of the display screen. Preferably the viewer will be required to press one of the buttons for each item the cursor moves through in the horizontal direction. However it should be noted that the invention is not limited to this configuration and buttons can be configured so that continuous depression of one button moves the cursor horizontally through a plurality of items. Alternatively cylinder may be configured for horizontal movement so that both horizontal and vertical movement can be carried out with a single button.

Cursor control assembly further includes a selector switch for selecting an item on the display screen when the cursor is contiguous with that item. In a specific configuration the selector switch is rolling cylinder . Depression of cylinder will select or activate the item or pull down a menu associated with that item. This feature of the present invention allows viewers to both vertically scroll through items in a menu and select these items without moving their thumb from cylinder .

Global controller preferably comprises a screen navigation ring having a plurality of direction buttons surrounding local controller . The exact number of direction buttons in navigation ring will typically depend on the number and relative locations of the different information areas on the display screen. In a specific configuration global controller will include four buttons controlling left right up and down movement of the cursor along the television screen.

As an alternative to navigation ring remote control device may include a trigger or clutch button as shown in Fig. i. Clutch button can be depressed to provide dual modality for local controller . Specifically pressing clutch button will move local controller between a first mode where cylinder and horizontal scroll mechanism move the cursor between different items within a particular information area on the display screen and a second mode where cylinder and horizontal scroll mechanism move the cursor between different information areas oh the screen. Clutch button is preferably located on the back side of casing so that the viewer can easily depress button with his or her fingers when holding the device.

Referring again to viewer input assembly of remote control device further includes a voice recognition device for receiving spoken commands from the viewer and converting the spoken commands into signals to facilitate use of television schedule information. Typically the voice recognition device will include a microphone on remote control device for receiving the spoken commands and converting them into audio signals and a microprocessor not shown that includes speech recognition circuitry contained therein for receiving the audio signals and performing various tasks based on the spoken commands. The microprocessor may be contained within the remote control device or within a television set a computer VCR or the like. Alternatively the speech recognition circuitry may be accessed from another computer or a datastream of information such as a web site on the internet and downloaded into the television schedule system.

The voice recognition device of the present invention may further include a trigger button not shown on remote control device for activating or deactivating microphone . This allows the viewer to speak to other people in the room without accidentally triggering commands through microphone . The trigger button is normally in the up position which corresponds to microphone being in the deactivated state. When the viewer wishes to input a spoken command message or data to the VCR television or computer the viewer must depress button which causes a signal to be sent to a processor not shown to activate microphone . Once microphone is activated it will input the received audio signals e.g. spoken commands to the processor.

Remote control device further includes a mechanism for inputting and recognizing a viewer s identification i.e. credit card number social security number etc. for authorizing the viewer to purchase products or services from the television schedule system. In a preferred configuration the identification mechanism is a slot in casing sized for receiving a credit card data card security card or other viewer identification card as shown in . In this configuration remote control device includes a recognition device for reading a code on the credit card when the credit card is swiped through slot . A process will convert the credit card s code into signals representing the viewer s identification. Alternatively the identification mechanism may comprise numeric or symbolic keys on casing such as the numeric keys shown in . In this embodiment the numeric keys may be used to input a security code such as a credit card number social security number or the like.

In another embodiment computer system may be combined with television system to form a PCTV. In this embodiment the computer will usually include a processor that may be used solely to run the program guide and associated software or the processor may be configured to run other applications such as word processing graphics or the like. The computer will usually be incorporated into the television set so that the television display can be used as both a television screen and a computer monitor. Usually the PCTV will include a number of input devices such as a keyboard a mouse and a remote control device similar to the one described above. However these input devices may be combined into a single device that inputs commands with keys a trackball pointing device scrolling mechanism voice activation or a combination thereof.

Television system includes a television which may be any commercially available television. Television system may or may not include a videotape recorder VCR . In this embodiment a VCR is coupled to television. This VCR can be for example any commercially available VCR or any other type of recording device analog or digital . Computer and television can be directly connected by a line or remotely connected so that computer and television can be located in different rooms within a private residence or commercial building. In the preferred embodiment a computer program provided on diskettes CD Rom or other medium contains the software needed for receiving organizing and displaying data for a television schedule guide see . These diskettes are inserted into disk input and the software for these diskettes is stored within the computer on the hard drive or on another mass storage location. This action can be performed by for example the viewer or service person. The computer program can also be provided for example via downloading from a satellite transmission through the internet or other online service or transmission through another type of land line. A more detailed description of a preferred computer system for use with the present invention is described in commonly assigned co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 08 537 650 filed Oct. 2 1995 the complete disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

In another embodiment computer system may be combined with television system to form a PCTV. In this embodiment the computer will usually include a processor that may be used solely to run the program guide and associated software or the processor may be configured to run other applications such as word processing graphics or the like. The computer will usually be incorporated into the television set so that the television display can be used as both a television screen and a computer monitor. Usually the PCTV will include a number of input devices such as a keyboard a mouse and a remote control device similar to the one described above. However these input devices may be combined into a single device that inputs commands with keys a trackball pointing device scrolling mechanism voice activation or a combination thereof.

In this embodiment remote control device will send input to computer which then transmits signals via an appropriate RF transmitter or the like not shown to television system . The data for the television schedule system can be obtained from a variety of databases. For example on line providers Prodigy America On Line Compuserve MSN At T etc may provide access to a database which contains the television schedule information. These on line information providers can transmit data to television . To accomplish this television or computer will include a modem which can be connected to a telephone line cable modem ISDN line DSS channel or the like and software for searching and providing the data to computer .

As shown in program guide preferably includes a schedule information area having a program matrix of cells or items that depict the shows that are being presented on each channel at each time during the day. Program guide conveniently lists the channels in a vertical column to the left of the program matrix and the times in a horizontal row above matrix . As shown the viewer may vertically scroll through a particular time or horizontally scroll through a channel. As the viewer scrolls through matrix a cursor will indicate the viewer s location within the matrix . Alternatively the item may be automatically highlighted with a brighter color to indicate the viewer s location. Preferably program matrix will also be shaded to indicate the portion of each show that has already been presented. For example as shown in the shading extends to 7 48 the current time as indicated at the bottom right of program guide to indicate which portion of the show the viewer has already missed.

As shown in program guide includes a number of other information areas. For example program guide includes a mode menu area that indicates the currently active mode i.e. program guide and allows the viewer to pull down a mode menu see . Program guide also includes a date area that indicates the date reflected in program matrix and allows the viewer to pull down a date submenu see to change the date. In other submodes the submode menu will display options for ordering or displaying lists that are appropriately related to the submode. A proportional scroll bar located to the left of program matrix is visually proportional to the total information in program matrix to provide visual feedback as the viewer vertically scrolls through matrix . In addition scroll bar may be used for large scale movement through hundreds of channels sources by navigating to bar and then vertically moving bar upward or downward. An exit area allows the viewer to immediately exit back to the television by navigating to exit area clicking on exit area . A program area depicts the currently tuned program and a preview window area can be used for all types of promotional descriptional or contextual video or graphics such as a short preview of the show that is currently being highlighted in show matrix . Preview window area may also be interactional similar to the other areas of guide .

In an exemplary configuration program area displays the currently tuned program live so that the viewer can browse through program matrix without missing the action on the currently tuned program. This feature allows the viewer for example to keep track of the score of a football game while browsing through the program matrix or performing other interactions with the system such as purchasing goods or services searching for more information on a program etc. In another configuration the viewer may set program area to change as the viewer browses through program matrix so that area depicts the highlighted program in the matrix. This allows the television viewer to quickly view each program without exiting from the program guide .

The program guide may also include a variety of additional areas to facilitate use of the television schedule system present information to the viewer or advertise programs or other products. For example a scrolling commercial message may be located underneath program matrix that advertises programs or products from program sponsors etc. The viewer may navigate to message and click on the input device to receive more information or to purchase the product or program. A two second delay or a suitable input from the viewer will open the scrolling message up into its info menu not shown . This function of ordering items is not limited to videos. For example the program may access other contextual linked services such as a commercial store etc. to allow the purchaser to buy a wide variety of different services or goods directly or indirectly linked to a particular program. For example an Info Menu for Monday Night Football may allow the viewer to scroll through submenus that allow the viewer to purchase Washington Redskins caps Minnesota Vikings caps or any NFL cap. The viewer has a choice to follow a program s link back to the commercial area where a larger selection of items and services are available. A product like the cap above may lead the viewer directly to an NFL proshop whereas a link to a movie on demand may lead back to a commercial film library. A more complete description of a television schedule system incorporating contextual linked services is described in co pending commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 837 025 filed on Apr. 11 1997 to Schein et al. and its Appendices A B and C the complete disclosure of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

A method for using the television schedule system of the present invention will now be described. illustrate a method of accessing program guide from a currently tuned program and browsing through other currently tuned programs. As shown in the viewer is watching a television show on a display screen such as a Monday Night Football game featuring the Washington Redskins versus the Minnesota Vikings. Clicking on the input device automatically causes a Program InfoMenu to pop up on a portion of the television screen see . Program InfoMenu may allow the viewer to obtain more information about the currently tuned program move to program guide move to contextual linked services discussed below or exit InfoMenu back to the television show. The viewer may vertically scroll through these options and select one of the options. For example clicking on the Go to program guide section immediately transfers the viewer to the program guide as shown in .

To browse other currently tuned programs the viewer employs the channel controls i.e. function buttons see . This allows the viewer to browse through other information menus while viewing the currently tuned program see . Alternatively clutch button may be depressed to switch the modality of local controller and allow the viewer to browse through the channels with cylinder . This allows the viewer to browse without taking his or her thumb off cylinder and without looking at remote control device . In an exemplary configuration InfoMenu includes a browsing window that displays live the program in InfoMenu . This feature allows the viewer to actually view the programs as he she browses through them. A single click of cylinder would take the viewer to the browsed program. The remote control device may also include means for switching the sound between the currently tuned program and the program in the browsing window .

The system and method of the present invention may be configured to automatically or manually customize the television schedule guide to an individual viewer or a group of viewers e.g. a family. In this embodiment the remote control device may be used to select certain programs and a memory stores the television programs that have been selected by the viewer. The programs can be selected for a variety of reasons such as a designated the program as a favorite placing a reminder to watch the program or when the television schedule system includes a recording device placing an automatic reminder to the program guide to record the program. In a specific configuration the system further includes a visual display such as a physical icon within the cell for indicating that a program has been selected. In addition the program guide includes a selection window that displays some or all of the programs that have been selected by the viewer. The input device will allow the viewer to activate and deactivate the selection window and to move between each program within the selection window and activate programs to obtain information associated with the selected program.

In an exemplary embodiment the system includes a database containing each program within the television schedule. The database may be included within a computer integrally combined with the television e.g. PCTV a computer that is coupled to the television through suitable lines or the database may be accessed from a remote computer e.g. via the internet or other communication medium. Within the database each program is associated with a variety of criteria or features such as particular actors actresses directors the type of movie e.g. action comedy and the like. When the viewer selects a program as a favorite for example he or she will have the option of designating the criteria or reason s that the program is a favorite i.e. actor director etc. . The computer will include a processor and suitable software for automatically searching the database for other programs having the same criteria. The processor will automatically place the programs that include the designated criteria into the selection window and provide visual indication of each program in the matrix of cells in the program guide. In this way the program guide will automatically customize itself to the individual viewer to facilitate use of the television schedule.

Although the foregoing invention has been described in detail for purposes of clarity it will be obvious that certain modifications may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims. For example the system may be configured for sorting mixing and preparing a special customized line up of channels within program guide . In addition the viewer can automatically tune to a desired program or can select different programs for automatic recording. A detail description of suitable systems for automatic tuning and automatic recording can be found in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 4 706 121 and application Ser. No. 08 423 411 the complete disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

