---

title: Method, apparatus and system for providing caller identification
abstract: Various embodiments provide methods, apparatus, and systems for providing caller ID. In an exemplary method implemented on a caller device, a portrait file to be used as a caller ID is created, and sent to a portrait distribution system (PDS) on a server via an IP network. A distribution policy corresponding to the portrait file is generated, and sent to a policy control system (PCS) on the server via the IP network, to cause the PCS to perform a selective distribution process. The selective distribution process includes selecting a callee device by using the distribution policy, generating a notification, and sending the notification to the callee device, such that the callee device downloads the portrait file from the PDS via the IP network according to the notification and executes the portrait file as the caller ID when the caller device calls the callee device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09602656&OS=09602656&RS=09602656
owner: IHANDY INC.
number: 09602656
owner_city: Tortola
owner_country: VG
publication_date: 20140420
---
The present disclosure relates to the field of communication systems and more particularly relates to methods apparatus and systems for providing caller identification.

With continuous development of communication technology users have increasing demands for functionalities of communication devices. Mobile phones such as feature phone and smart phone have users across the entire globe. Smart phone as a popular communication device nowadays has independent operation system as a personal computer and includes features such as web browsing Wi Fi. User can install on a smart phone various third party programs such as application software games and global positioning system. Existing smart phone operation systems include e.g. Android iOS and Windows Phone.

Generally the existing smart phone operation systems have built in address book system and phone system. When a caller dials a phone number on a phone to call a callee the phone of the callee receives the call. If the caller is a contact in the address book on the phone of the callee and has a corresponding portrait in the address book the portrait of the caller can be automatically displayed on the phone of the callee to indicate the caller identification ID . Thus caller ID can be displayed in a personalized way.

Typically portrait of a contact is set up in the address book manually by a callee. In this case the callee can store a phone number in the address book and assign a picture to the phone number. When the callee is called by a caller the portrait can be displayed as the caller ID of the caller. Such a method is time consuming for a callee. Therefore usually a significant number of contacts in an address book still do not have a portrait assigned and have only the caller s phone number or name displayed as caller ID. Therefore existing method for managing address book and setting caller ID is inefficient. The disclosed methods and devices are directed to solve one or more problems set forth above and other problems.

One aspect of the present disclosure includes methods for providing caller identification ID . An exemplary method can be implemented by a caller device having a phone number. The method can include creating a portrait file to be used as a caller ID representing the caller device. A distribution policy corresponding to the portrait file can be generated. The portrait file can be sent to a portrait distribution system PDS on a server via an IP network. The distribution policy can be sent to a policy control system PCS on the server via the IP network to cause the PCS to perform a selective distribution process. The selective distribution process can include selecting a callee device to be notified of the portrait file by using the distribution policy. Further the selective distribution process can include generating a notification based on the portrait file. Still further the selective distribution process can include sending the notification to the callee device such that the callee device downloads the portrait file from the PDS via the IP network according to the notification and executes the portrait file as the caller ID when the caller device calls the callee device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure includes methods for providing caller ID. An exemplary method can be implemented by a server including a PDS and a PCS. The PDS can receive from a caller device via an IP network a portrait file to be used as a caller ID representing the caller device. The caller device can have a phone number. The PCS can receive from the caller device via the IP network a distribution policy corresponding to the portrait file. The PCS can perform a selective distribution process. The selective distribution process can include selecting a callee device to be notified of the portrait file by using the distribution policy. Further the selective distribution process can include generating a notification based on the portrait file. Still further the selective distribution process can include sending the notification to the callee device to cause the callee device to download the portrait file from the PDS via the IP network according to the notification and when the caller device calls the callee device to cause the callee device to execute the portrait file as the caller ID.

Another aspect of the present disclosure includes an apparatus for providing caller ID. The apparatus can include a caller device having a phone number. The caller device can include a processor a storage medium and can have instructions encoded thereon which cause the apparatus to perform a method for providing a called ID. In the method a portrait file to be used as a caller ID representing the caller device can be created. A distribution policy corresponding to the portrait file can be generated. The portrait file can be sent to a portrait distribution system PDS on a server via an IP network. The distribution policy can be sent to a policy control system PCS on the server via the IP network to cause the PCS to perform a selective distribution process. The selective distribution process can include selecting a callee device to be notified of the portrait file by using the distribution policy. Further the selective distribution process can include generating a notification based on the portrait file. Still further the selective distribution process can include sending the notification to the callee device such that the callee device downloads the portrait file from the PDS via the IP network according to the notification and executes the portrait file as the caller ID when the caller device calls the callee device.

Another aspect of the present disclosure includes an apparatus for providing caller ID. The apparatus can include a server having a PCS and a PDS. The server can include a processor a storage medium and can have instructions encoded thereon which cause the apparatus to perform a method for providing a called ID. In the method the PDS can receive from a caller device via an IP network a portrait file to be used as a caller ID representing the caller device. The caller device can have a phone number. The PCS can receive from the caller device via the IP network a distribution policy corresponding to the portrait file. The PCS can perform a selective distribution process. The selective distribution process can include selecting a callee device to be notified of the portrait file by using the distribution policy. Further the selective distribution process can include generating a notification based on the portrait file. Still further the selective distribution process can include sending the notification to the callee device to cause the callee device to download the portrait file from the PDS via the IP network according to the notification and when the caller device calls the callee device to cause the callee device to execute the portrait file as the caller ID.

Other aspects or embodiments of the present disclosure can be understood by those skilled in the art in light of the description the claims and the drawings of the present disclosure.

Reference will now be made in detail to exemplary embodiments of the disclosure which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts.

The communication network may include any appropriate type of communication network for providing network connections to the server the client A and the client B or among multiple servers or clients. For example the communication network may include the Internet a local area network LAN a mobile communication network or any other types of computer networks or telecommunication networks either wired or wireless.

In certain embodiments the communication network may include an Internet Protocol IP network that can be used by a mobile terminal e.g. a smart phone or a feature phone. The IP network can be supported by Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi e.g. the American Institute of Electrical and Electronics engineers standard IEEE 802.11a IEEE 802.11b IEEE802.11g and or IEEE 802.11n or by any appropriate cellular data networks including e.g. General Packet Radio Service GPRS 3G 4G 5G Nomadic Local Area Wireless Access NoLA etc.

A client as used herein may refer to any appropriate software program that can implement certain functions. A client can be installed on a terminal device to be operated by a user to accomplish the certain functions. The terminal device can include any electronic device having certain computing capabilities e.g. a personal computer PC a work station computer a hand held computing device e.g. a tablet a mobile terminal e.g. a mobile phone a feature phone or a smart phone or any other client side computing device. One terminal can implement one or more clients.

In various embodiments the client A can be implemented by a first terminal of a first user. The client B can be implemented by a second terminal of a second user. For illustrative purposes the first user can be referred to as a caller and the first terminal of the first user can be referred to a caller device. The second user can be referred to as a callee and the second terminal of the second user can be referred to a callee device. As used herein wherever applicable a caller device can refer to a device that places or sends a phone call or a device that can potentially place or send a phone call. A callee device can refer to a device that receives a phone call or a device that can potentially receive a phone call.

The Client A can include a caller active system CAS . The CAS can include a portrait collecting sub system configured to collect create or obtain a portrait file. The CAS can further include a distribution policy setting sub system configured to collect user input in order to generate a distribution policy corresponding to the portrait file.

The Client B can include a potential callee passive system PCPS . The PCPS can include a portrait obtaining sub system configured to obtain a portrait file. The PCPS can further include a portrait setting sub system configured to correlate the portrait with a caller or caller device such that when the caller device calls the callee device the portrait file can be played or executed on the callee device during a ringing prompt e.g. an image included in the portrait file can be displayed on the monitor of the callee device. Further one client can have one of CAS and PCPS installed or have both CAS and PCPS installed without limitation.

A server as used herein may refer to one or more server computers configured to provide certain server functionalities. The server may also include one or more processors to execute computer programs in parallel.

In various embodiments the server can include a policy control system PCS and a portrait distribution system PDS . The PCS can be configured to store distribution policy and control distribution of portrait files. The PCS can include a PCS data storage unit for storing distribution policy and any appropriate database management system for managing the distribution policy. Optionally the PCS data storage unit can include persistent storage PS .

The PDS can be configured to store and distribute the portrait files. The PDS can include a PDS data storage unit for storing portrait files e.g. a portrait as indicated by the bubble in . Optionally the PDS data storage unit can include persistent storage PS . The PCS the PCS data storage unit the PDS and the PDS data storage unit can be located on the same server computer or on separate server computers without limitation.

The server the first terminal implementing the Client A and the second terminal implementing the Client B may be implemented on any appropriate computing platform. shows a block diagram of an exemplary computing system capable of implementing the server the first terminal and or the second terminal. As shown in the exemplary computing system may include a processor a storage medium a monitor a communication module a database peripherals and one or more bus to couple the devices together. Certain devices may be omitted and other devices may be included.

The processor can include any appropriate processor or processors. Further the processor can include multiple cores for multi thread or parallel processing. The storage medium may include memory modules e.g. Read Only Memory ROM Random Access Memory RAM and flash memory modules and mass storages e.g. CD ROM U disk removable hard disk etc. In various embodiments the storage medium may include a persistent storage PS memory unit to store portrait files e.g. portrait or store distribution policy when executed by the processor .

The monitor may include display devices for displaying contents in the computing system . For example when the computing system implements a mobile phone the monitor can be configured to display images and display caller ID when there is an incoming call. The monitor may include a touch screen.

The peripherals may include I O devices such as keyboard mouse and or a built in camera. The peripherals may further include an audio circuit coupled with a speaker an audio jack and a microphone. The audio circuit can provide an audio interface between a user and the computing system . For example the audio circuit is configured to receive audio data from the processor convert the audio data to an electrical signal and transmit the electrical signal to the speaker. The speaker is configured to convert the electrical signal to an audio signal output e.g. sound waves that can be heard by human ear . On the other hand the audio circuit is configured to receive an electrical signal from the microphone convert the electrical signal to audio data and transmit the audio data to the processor for further processing. In certain examples the audio data can be received from the storage medium or the communication module . In addition the audio data can be stored in the storage medium for further processing or be transmitted via the communication module .

The communication module may include network devices for establishing connections through the communication network . The communication module may include a radio frequency RF module configured to receive and transmit electromagnetic waves. Thus conversion between the electromagnetic waves and electrical signals can be accomplished such that the communication module can communicate with communication networks or other communication devices. The RF module may include any suitable circuit elements that perform the functions of the RF module including e.g. an antenna an RF transceiver a digital signal processor an encryption decryption chip a subscriber identity module SIM card memory etc.

The database may include one or more databases for storing certain data and for performing certain operations on the stored data e.g. portrait files user phone number or account information distribution policy or any other suitable data.

In operation the client A and or the client B may cause the server to perform certain actions e.g. receiving portrait files from a client receiving distribution policy from a client sending notifications etc. The server may be configured to provide structures and functions for such actions and operations. The disclosed methods can be accomplished using any appropriate operating system including but not limited to iOS Android Windows Phone.

In various embodiments a caller device involved in the disclosed methods and systems can include the first terminal implementing Client A a callee device involved in the disclosed methods and systems can include the second terminal implementing Client B while a server involved in the disclosed methods and systems can include the server . The methods apparatus and systems disclosed in accordance with various embodiments can be executed by one or more computing systems including the server the first terminal and or the second terminal.

Referring to in Step the caller device creates a portrait file to be used as a caller ID. As used herein a portrait refers to contents that can represent an identity and or convey information. A portrait can include image s text s animation s audio s video s and or any other appropriate types of multimedia content. A portrait file refers to a file that contains a portrait when properly read and executed by a computing system. The portrait file can be subsequently executed on a callee device as a caller ID representing the caller device or the user of the caller device. Executing a portrait file can refer to a process of carrying out instructions in the portrait file by any appropriate computer program. Executing a portrait file can include e.g. displaying an image or animation included in the portrait file playing a video or audio clip included in the portrait file and the like.

For example the caller device can launch the CAS that is previous installed thereon and use the CAS to collect the portrait file. depicts an exemplary interface for launching a CAS in accordance with various disclosed embodiments. In this example the CAS can be named as SnapCover application program.

When the portrait file includes an image the image can be created in various ways. In example the portrait can be created by taking a photo using the caller device. In another example the portrait can be created by selecting an image that is saved locally on the caller device. Optionally the CAS can provide various image processing and editing functions including but not limited to zooming filtering painting or graffiti text inserting text editing or any other appropriate functions. depicts an exemplary interface for editing a portrait file in accordance with various disclosed embodiments. Therefore the portrait can be further customized.

After the portrait file is created the CAS can optionally provide a preview of the portrait file. depicts an exemplary interface for previewing a portrait file in accordance with various disclosed embodiments. Optionally after processing the portrait file the portrait file can be stored on the caller device.

Referring to in Step the caller device generates a distribution policy corresponding to the portrait file. In various embodiments the distribution policy can include a distribution list including phone number s corresponding to contact s that are authorized to subsequently download the portrait file. The distribution policy can further include information used for identifying the caller device and the portrait file in subsequent steps e.g. the phone number of the caller device.

As used herein a contact can be any callee that the user potentially may call from the caller device. A contact in the distribution list of the user can be referred to as a friend of the user. The distribution list can be referred to as a friend circle correlated with the portrait file.

Depending on various configurations of actual address books contacts and phone numbers may have various corresponding relationships which does not limit the implementation of the disclosed methods. In one example one phone number can correspond to one contact. The user of the caller device can select the phone number of the contact to authorize the device corresponding to the phone number to subsequently download the portrait file. In another example multiple phone numbers can correspond to one contact and accordingly multiple devices can correspond to the contact. The user of the caller device can select a desired phone number of the contact and the device corresponding to the desired phone number is thus authorized to subsequently download the portrait file.

After the portrait file is created the user of the caller device can input information via the CAS to set the distribution policy. In one embodiment the user can generate a distribution list by selecting contacts from an address book on the caller device. The CAS can display the address book on the caller device such that the user can select the desired contacts. For example depicts an exemplary interface for selecting contacts in an address book in accordance with various disclosed embodiments. For illustrative purposes a contact named Alice is selected as shown in .

The user can select one of some of or all of the contacts in the address book. After the desired contacts are selected phone numbers corresponding to the desired contacts can be stored in the distribution list. depicts an exemplary interface after selecting contacts in an address book in accordance with various disclosed embodiments. Optionally the interface as shown in can be displayed on the caller device during a waiting time after the desired contacts are selected and saved.

After the portrait file is created and the corresponding distribution policy is generated the setting up of the portrait file can be completed. depicts an exemplary interface after setting up a portrait file in accordance with various disclosed embodiments. Optionally the interface as shown in can be displayed on the caller device to prompt the user to create another portrait file as desired.

In another embodiment additionally or alternatively the user can generate a distribution list by inputting a phone number of a new contact that is not currently in the address book on the caller device. The user can then optionally store the phone number of the new contact in the address book.

Referring to in Step the caller device sends the portrait file to a portrait distribution system PDS on a server. The portrait file can carry or contain the phone number of the caller device. That is the portrait file and the phone number of the caller device can have a binding relationship. Thus subsequently after the portrait file is downloaded to a callee device the portrait file can be optionally automatically set up in an address book on the callee device to correspond to the phone number of the caller device i.e. via the phone number of the caller device. And when the caller device subsequently calls the callee device the portrait file corresponding to the phone number of the caller device can be executed as the caller ID.

The PDS can thus receive and store the portrait file. The portrait file can be stored in any appropriate storage unit e.g. in PS of a PDS data storage unit. Optionally the PDS can return to the caller device a first response indicating portrait upload completion.

In Step the caller device sends the distribution policy to a policy control system PCS on the server. The PCS can thus receive and store the distribution policy. The portrait file can be stored in any appropriate storage unit e.g. in PS of a PDS data storage unit. Optionally the PCS can return to the caller device a second response indicating policy upload completion.

Steps can be accomplished via any appropriate IP network. Further Steps can be executed in any suitable sequence. In one example Steps can be executed simultaneously. In another example Step can be performed and then Step can be performed. In addition Step can be performed after Step and before Step and Step is then performed after Step . Depending on needs of actual applications other various sequences of perform Steps can also be used to accomplish the functions as disclosed in the present disclosure without limitation.

In one embodiment in Step additionally the PDS can return to the caller device the first response indicating portrait upload completion. Optionally the first response can include an access instruction corresponding to the portrait file. The access instruction can include location name and or any other appropriate information for a callee device to subsequently locate the portrait file on the PDS and download the portrait from the PDS without limitation.

The access instruction can include any other appropriate instruction including for locating and downloading the portrait file from the PDS. In one example the access instruction can include a locator. The locator can include a locator e.g. uniform resource locator URL at which the portrait file is stored. The URL can be generated and assigned for the portrait file by the PDS after receiving and storing the portrait file. The locator can include other type of location information e.g. path for locating the portrait file in a directory or database maintained by the PDS. In another example the access instruction can include an access key. The access key can include file name identification and or any string of characters that can be used for forming a URL or a path using preset methods determined beforehand by the application program.

In this case in Step when the distribution policy is sent to the PCS on the server by the caller device the caller device can optionally include the access instruction in the distribution policy. That is the distribution policy can include the distribution list the phone number of the caller device and the access instruction. Optionally the phone number of the caller device can be used by the PCS and PDS for subsequently identifying the caller device. Multiple portrait files can belong to one caller device. Each portrait file can be correlated with a distribution policy respectively.

For illustrative purposes depicts a network diagram of an exemplary method for providing user ID in accordance with various disclosed embodiments and depicts a timing diagram of the exemplary method in in accordance with various disclosed embodiments. The returning of the first response the returning of the second response Step and Step can be performed in any appropriate sequence that is the same as or different from the sequence as shown in without limitation.

In another embodiment in Step additionally and optionally after the caller device sends the portrait file to the PDS the PDS can return to the caller device a first response indicating portrait upload completion. However the first response does not include the access instruction. In this case in Step when the caller device sends the portrait file to the PDS the portrait file sent to the PDS can optionally carry a unique identifier. Thus the unique identifier can also be sent to the PDS. The unique identifier can include a unique combination of codes to be used for uniquely identifying the portrait file subsequently. The PDS can then receive and store the portrait file generate an access instruction and correlate the access instruction with the unique identifier. That is on the PDS the access instruction of the portrait file can have a mapping relationship with the unique identifier of the portrait file.

In this case in Step when the distribution policy is sent to the PCS on the server by the caller device the distribution policy can optionally carry the unique identifier. That is the distribution policy sent to the PCS can include the distribution list the phone number of the caller device and the unique identifier. In other words the phone number of the caller device and the unique identifier can also be sent to the PCS. Optionally the PDS can send to the PCS a third response indicating portrait upload completion. The third response can include the access instruction of the portrait file and the correlated unique identifier. Thus by using the unique identifier included in the distribution policy the PCS can obtain the access instruction corresponding to the portrait file from the third response that is received from the PDS. For illustrative purposes depicts a network diagram of an exemplary method for providing user ID in accordance with various disclosed embodiments. depicts a timing diagram of the exemplary method in in accordance with various disclosed embodiments. The returning of the first response the returning of the second response the sending of the third response Step and Step can be performed in any appropriate sequence that is the same as or different from the sequence as shown in without limitation.

Therefore in various embodiments the access instruction and the portrait file are uniquely correlated. The PDS can correlate the phone number of the caller device with the portrait file. The PCS can correlate the phone number of the caller device with the distribution policy and the portrait file. Therefore for a phone number of a caller device a distribution policy can correspond to a portrait file. Using the above disclosed methods via a phone number of a caller device one or more portrait files can be set up and each of the portrait files can be correlated with a distribution policy respectively.

Referring back to further in Step after the PCS receives the distribution policy the PCS can perform a selective distribution process. depicts an exemplary selective distribution process in accordance with various disclosed embodiments. In Step the PCS selects a callee device to be notified of the portrait file by using the distribution policy. As used herein a callee device to be notified of the portrait file can refer to a callee device that is authorized to receive a notification for subsequently downloading the portrait file.

The PCS can use the distribution policy in various ways in order to determine the callee device. In one embodiment the PCS can determine all the contacts in the distribution list to be callee devices to be notified.

In another embodiment the PCS can determine certain contacts in the distribution list to be callee devices to be notified. The certain contacts can be determined based on preset criteria. The preset criteria are further detailed in the following examples.

For example prior to or during the selective distribution process via a communication network the PCS can obtain address books uploaded from clients that have an appropriate application program installed. Depending on the configuration and functionality of devices corresponding to the clients the clients uploading address books can include none of one of some of or all of the contacts in the distribution list sent by the caller device and can additionally include clients that are not contacts in the distribution list.

The appropriate application program for uploading address books can include the SnapCover program CAS PCPS or any appropriate programs that can implement that can accomplish the function of uploading address books from a device. As used herein unless otherwise specified an address book uploaded from a device to a server can refer to any appropriate data in the address book or related to the address book without limitation.

In this case the PCS can look up the uploaded address books. As used herein a client that has an address book that includes the phone number of the caller device of the user can be referred to as a follower of user. Thus in this case when a contact in the distribution list is also a follower of the user the PCS can determine the device corresponding to the phone number of the contact is the callee device to be notified. When a contact in the user s distribution list is not a follower of the user the PCS can determine a device corresponding to the phone number of the contact is not the callee device to be notified.

For illustrative purposes depicts an entity relationship E R diagram of an exemplary data storage structure on PCS in accordance with various disclosed embodiments. The E R diagram as shown in can be used to implement the above disclosed methods that determine callee device according to relationship between the user and follower s and the user and contacts.

The E R diagram in can be further detailed as follows. A user entity has a phone number as the main key to uniquely identify the user and can be used as an account number in an account system for implementing the methods as disclosed in various embodiments. Attributes including e.g. device ID conversation ID and device operating system can record information of a latest login of the user. Each user can have multiple followers. At the same time each follower can follow multiple users. Thus user and follower have a many to many relationship. The followers can be stored in a follower list in any appropriate database structure.

A contact entity has a phone number. However the phone number does not uniquely identify a contact because a phone number of the contact may be correlated with different names on different devices of users. Thus to uniquely identify the contact the contact entity may use a main key combining both the phone number of the user and the phone number of the contact.

A user can set multiple portraits. Each portrait belongs to one user so user and portrait have a one to many relationship. The portrait entity has portrait ID as a unique identifier. URL attribute can record network storage address of the portrait for downloading. Contact and portrait has a limited viewing relationship i.e. viewing by restriction relationship. The viewing by restriction relationship can be specified by the user. The user can specify one or more contacts of his or hers that are authorized to view a portrait. All contacts authorized to view a portrait can form a friend circle. Thus each friend circle can be correlated with a portrait. The URL in can be also replaced by other types of access instruction without limitation.

When a portrait is created or modified data of the correlated friend circle can be simultaneously modified. When a portrait is modified a set including phone numbers in the friend circle and a set including phone numbers in the follower list can be used to generate an intersection. The intersection can be used to determine which contacts of the user can a portrait modification notification or any other appropriate notification can be sent to.

In addition data of the friend circle can be used to control reading authorization of portrait data. Contacts out of the friend circle cannot download the portrait. In one embodiment the PCS can subsequently send a notification to PCPS of a callee device. The notification can optionally include authorization information for reading portrait data. Optionally when a URL is carried in the notification the authorization information can be included in the URL. When the callee device downloads the portrait data from the PDS the PDS needs to check the authorization information in order to accomplish authorization control of portrait data.

Referring back to Step of in yet another embodiment the PCS can determine devices corresponding to certain contacts in the distribution list to be callee devices to be notified. The certain contacts can be determined based on preset criteria and social relationships between clients. For example the distribution policy can optionally include relationship between the user of the caller device and a contact in the distribution list. Optionally the address books of the contact may be uploaded to PCS beforehand and may include relationship between the user of the caller device and the client. Additionally and optionally information of social relationships can also be obtained by linking the accounts of clients on the PCS respectively with the accounts of clients at other social media websites.

In this case the user can set a preference for a portrait to be sent to a certain group of people. For example the distribution list can include all of part of the contacts in the address book of the caller device and the user can additionally specify in the distribution list that only family members need to be notified of a new portrait. The PCS can look up the social relationships between the user and the contacts and select the contacts in the distribution list who are the user s family members. Devices corresponding to the phone numbers of the family members can thus be determined by the PCS to be callee devices to be notified.

Therefore in various embodiments depending on needs of actual application the distribution policy can include a distribution list preset criteria determined by the user or the PCS user preference or a combination thereof without limitation.

Referring to in Step the PCS generates a notification based on the portrait file. The notification can be subsequently sent to the callee device to notify that a portrait is available for downloading or updating. The notification can then be used by the callee device to download the portrait file. The notification can include the phone number of the caller device. The notification can further include information for the callee device to locate and download the portrait file from the PDS.

The notification can include the access instruction on how to locate and download the portrait file. In one embodiment the notification can include the access instruction e.g. the URL of the portrait file. In another embodiment the notification can include a unique key. The unique key can include the unique identifier e.g. as described in Step . Alternatively the unique key can include any other suitable codes such as file name or identification. The unique key can be used by the callee device to form the URL or path using preset methods determined beforehand by the application program.

In another embodiment the notification can include the phone number of the caller device and does not necessarily include the access instruction or the unique key. In this case when the callee device subsequently receives the notification the callee device can use the phone number of the callee device and the phone number of the caller device to retrieve the portrait file from the PDS. The PDS can look up the portrait file or the URL or path of the portrait file in a pre established database. The database can include any appropriate database established on the PDS for storing portrait files URLs of portrait files or paths of portrait files without limitation.

In yet another embodiment the notification does not necessarily include the phone number of the caller device and does not necessarily include the access instruction or the unique key. In this case when the callee device subsequently receives the notification the callee device can use the phone number of the callee device to retrieve the portrait file from the PDS. In this case the PDS needs to maintain a portrait inbox for the callee device. The portrait inbox can include a list of URLs or paths of portrait files corresponding to respective phone numbers of caller devices. The callee device can use its own phone number to access the portrait inbox on the PDS obtain the URL or path for downloading the portrait file corresponding to the phone number of the caller device and download the portrait file that has not been downloaded yet.

Referring back to in Step the PCS sends the notification to the selected callee device such that the callee device downloads the portrait file from the PDS according to the notification. The callee device can include the callee device s to be notified which can be determined above in accordance with various embodiments e.g. in Step .

In various embodiments the callee phone can include a PCPS and the PCPS can be configured to download the portrait file. The PCS can identify the PCPS of the callee device according the phone number of the callee device and then send the notification to the PCPS of the callee device. The notification can be directly sent to the callee device via any appropriate mobile phone notification system including e.g. Push Notification of iOS Google Cloud Messaging of Google Mountain View Calif. Toast Notifications of Microsoft Redmond Wash. etc.

The PCS can send the notification in various ways without limitation. In one example the PCS can push the notification to the selected callee device e.g. as described above. In another example the notification can be sent via active polling by the callee device. In this case the callee device can actively check whether the PCS has a notification available for the callee device and obtain the notification from the PCS when the PCS has a notification available for the callee device. The active polling can be at a certain predetermined frequency or at the request of a user via the callee device without limitation.

After receiving the notification the callee device can download the portrait file from the PDS via the PCPS according to the notification as described above in accordance with various embodiments e.g. in Step . Depending on information carried in the notification the callee device can download the portrait file in various ways e.g. as described in Step .

The PCPS can download the portrait file from the PDS via an IP network according to e.g. the URL of the portrait file. The PCPS can download the portrait file from the PDS via Internet application layer protocols based on Transmission Control Protocol TCP i.e. TCP IP including but not limited to Hypertext transfer protocol HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol over Secure Socket Layer HTTPS File Transfer Protocol FTP Secure File Transfer Protocol SFTP Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP or Real time Transport Protocol RTP .

Optionally the portrait file downloaded by the callee device can carry the phone number of the caller device. In this case the callee device can identify the caller device based on the phone number of the caller device.

The PCPS can optionally send a fourth response to the CAS of the caller device. The fourth response can indicate portrait setup completion.

After the portrait file is downloaded to the callee phone via the PCPS the portrait file can be subsequently processed by the PCPS in various ways. In one embodiment the PCPS can automatically and directly modify the address book on the callee device. For example the PCPS can look up an entry in the address book that corresponds to the phone number of the caller device. When the address book includes the entry that corresponds to the phone number of the caller device e.g. when the callee device is a follower of the caller device or the user of the caller device the PCPS can find the entry and modify portrait of the entry with the downloaded portrait file.

In this case optionally the user of the callee device can permit the PCPS to access and operate the address book on the callee device. For example when the callee device is a smart phone using an iOS operating system the callee device can have a function unit called Contacts. Contacts can be configured to implement the address book on the callee device. The Contacts may provide an application programming interface API to interact with other software components. The API can enable other software components to perform certain functions on the address book including but not limited to adding deleting modifying inquiring entries in the address book.

Thus via the API the PCPS can look up an entry in the address book that corresponds to the phone number of the caller device find the entry when the entry is included in the address book and modify portrait of the entry with the downloaded portrait file. Optionally the PCPS can be permitted by the callee device to add entries. In this case when the entry is not previously included in the address book the PCPS can automatically add a new entry i.e. a new contact correlated with the phone number of the caller device and use the corresponding portrait file as the portrait of the new contact.

In another embodiment the downloaded portrait file can be automatically saved in any appropriate database on the callee device and the database can be managed by the PCPS. The downloaded portrait file can be assigned an appropriate storage address. The PCPS can set a caller ID corresponding to the caller device by intercepting an incoming call. In this case the PCPS can control an interface displayed on the callee device when the caller device calls the callee device. In various embodiments the intercepting of the incoming call can be automatically implemented on the callee device via the PCPS.

Referring back to in Step optionally the caller device calls the callee device to cause the callee device to execute the portrait file as the caller ID. Executing a portrait file can refer to any appropriate showing of content of the portrait file including e.g. displaying the portrait file when the portrait file includes text image animation playing the portrait file when the portrait file includes audio or video or any other operations to execute a multi media file.

Thus when the caller device places an outgoing call to the callee device during a ringing prompt of the corresponding incoming call on the callee device the portrait file can be executed on the callee device to represent the caller device or the user of the caller device. For example depicts an exemplary interface of displaying a caller ID during a ringing prompt in accordance with various disclosed embodiments. Optionally and additionally name of the caller phone number corresponding to the caller device and or type of phone number e.g. mobile office or home phone can be displayed along with the portrait file i.e. can be included in the caller ID for further identifying the caller device.

As described in various embodiments e.g. in Step after the portrait file is downloaded to the callee device via the PCPS the portrait file can be subsequently processed by the PCPS in various ways. Depending on how the portrait file is processed by the PCPS previously the caller ID can be provided on the callee device during the ringing prompt in various ways.

In one embodiment after the portrait file is downloaded as shown in Step the PCPS directly modifies the address book on the callee device such that the portrait is set up on the callee device. The PCPS can look up an entry in the address book that corresponds to the caller device find the entry modify portrait of the entry with the downloaded portrait file and store the portrait in the address book. In this case the portrait file can include an image a text and or an animation that can be used as an appropriate portrait in the address book.

In this case when the callee device receives the incoming call from the caller device the portrait of the caller device stored in the address book can be displayed during the ringing prompt as the caller ID. An interface displayed on the callee device during the ringing prompt can be any appropriate interface used by the callee device during a ringing prompt and the stored portrait can be displayed on the interface. For example when the callee device is a smart phone using an iOS operating system the callee device can have a function unit called Phone. The Phone is configured to implement a mobile phone function on the callee device. When the caller device calls the callee device the Phone can look up in the address book information including name and portrait corresponding to the phone number of the caller device so the portrait can be displayed during the ringing prompt.

In another embodiment after the portrait file is downloaded as shown in Step the PCPS can set portrait as the caller ID corresponding to the caller device by intercepting an incoming call on the callee device. In this case the PCPS can control an interface displayed on the callee device during a ringing prompt such that the portrait file can be played on the interface.

The PCPS can intercept an incoming call on the callee device using any appropriate software and or hardware configuration on the callee device. For illustrative purposes depicts an exemplary system structure diagram incorporating a function of intercepting an incoming call in accordance with various disclosed embodiments. For example the system can be implemented on a callee device using Android operating system. As shown in Box is an App layer. Box is a framework layer. When an incoming call is placed a Radio Interface Layer RIL layer as shown in Box can report the corresponding incoming call event to a CallTracker the incoming call event can then be processed via two routes including Route A and Route B.

During Route A a message of PHONE STATE CHANGED can be delivered sequentially via PhoneNotifier and TelephonyRegistry. A third party application program e.g. 3Apps as shown in can register a listener e.g. PhoneStateListener as shown in via software development kit SDK API. The listener can be configured to monitor the message of PHONE STATE CHANGED sent by the TelephonyRegistry of the framework layer. When the message of PHONE STATE CHANGED indicates a call state changes from CALL STATE IDLE CALL STATE RINGING the message thus indicates there is an incoming call. The message can carry the phone number of the incoming call e.g. as an intent .

During Route B a message of NewRingingConnection can be delivered from the framework layer to the App layer sequentially via PhoneBase CallManager CallNotifier and InCallScreen. To intercept an incoming call hooking technique can be used in the PhoneBase such that an appropriate program e.g. certain mobile phone security software having call intercept function herein referred to as Service as shown in on the callee device can be notified of the incoming call and block the delivery of the message of NewRingingConnection from the PhoneBase to the CallManager. Root access can be provided to the Service such that the Service can wait for request from a client e.g. client B of callee device . The Service can further expose appropriate SDK API e.g. Security SDK API as shown to to the client. The API can include the phone call of the incoming call. Thus according to the phone number provided by the API and via the PCPS the callee device can play the portrait file e.g. display the portrait.

Thus in this case when the PCPS provides the caller ID corresponding to the caller device by intercepting an incoming call on the callee device the callee device can be installed with appropriate program s for intercepting incoming calls. For example the callee device can include a Listener. The Listener can be registered by the PCPS with the PhoneStateListener via SDK API or with the Service via SDK API or via any other appropriate methods without limitation. In addition the callee device can be installed with an appropriate program for playing the media file. For example the program can be referred to a Player. The Player can be included in or independent of the PCPS system without limitation. For example depicts an exemplary timing diagram of intercepting an incoming call in accordance with various disclosed embodiments. The process in can include the following exemplary steps.

In Step the Listener intercepts an incoming call notice associated with the phone number X of the caller device. The incoming call notice associated with the phone number X of the caller device can be generated by monitoring the call state and can indicate the callee device is receiving a call from the phone number X. For example the callee device can launch the Listener to monitor incoming calls. Optionally before launching the Listener the user of the callee device can log in the callee device.

In Step the Listener sends to the PCPS the incoming call notice associated with the phone number X. In Step the PCPS can look up the storage address of the portrait file corresponding to the phone number X. The storage address can thus be obtained.

In Step the PCPS sends a portrait file play notice to the Player. The portrait file play notice can include the storage address of the portrait file. The portrait file play notice can be used to instruct the Player to play the portrait file.

In Step according to the storage address of the portrait file included in the portrait file play notice the Player starts to play the portrait file. The starting of the playing by the Player can be the starting of the ringing prompt. In various embodiments the Player can play the portrait file in a loop i.e. repeatedly during the ringing prompt.

In Step when the Listener receives a ring ending notice the Listener sends the ring ending notice to the PCPS. The Listener can receive the ring ending notice when the caller device stops calling the callee device e.g. hangs up or disconnected for any other reasons before the callee device answers the call or when the callee device starts to answer the call.

In Step the PCPS sends a portrait file stop notice to the Player. In Step according to the portrait file stop notice the Player stops playing the portrait file. Thus the playing or displaying of the caller ID is completed.

Optionally an account system can be established to uniquely identify caller devices and or callee devices via respective phone numbers thereof. The account system can be used by the PCS and or PDS for correlating the caller device the callee device the portrait file unique identifier of the portrait file distribution policy portrait inbox storage space and any appropriate database for achieving the functions as disclosed in various embodiments. For example the account of a user of a device can be associated with the phone number of the device and the device can refer to a caller device or a callee device. The user can log in the account system via the device by performing a login process.

For illustrative purposes depicts an exemplary client side login process in accordance with various disclosed embodiments. The client side login process can be performed on a caller device or callee device. depicts an exemplary server side login process in accordance with various disclosed embodiments. The server side login process can be performed on a server that implements the PCS and or the PDS. In practice a login process can include performing in an appropriate sequence the steps in both of the client side login process as shown in and the server side login process as shown in .

For example referring to in Step C a login interface is displayed on a device to prompt a user of the device to log in an application program. The application program can include any appropriate program that can implement the methods as disclosed in various embodiments. For example the program can be referred to as SnapCover.

In Step C the user inputs the phone number of the device. The user can input the phone number via a certain interface prompting the user to enter the phone number. The interface can include e.g. a soft keyboard. For example FIG. C depicts an exemplary interface of inputting phone number in accordance with various disclosed embodiments.

In Step C the user sends a login request to the server. For example after inputting the phone number the user can send a login request to the server by clicking a continue button e.g. as shown in .

Referring to in Step S the server receives the login request. In Step S the server sends a verification code to the device via the phone number.

Referring to in Step C the user receives the verification code via the device and inputs the verification code on the device. For example the device can receive the verification code using any appropriate communication methods including but not limited to email messaging phone calling etc. depicts an exemplary interface of inputting a verification code in accordance with various disclosed embodiments. In Step C the device sends the inputted verification code to the server.

Referring to in Step S the server receives the verification code inputted by the user. In Step S the server compares the received verification code with the verification code sent previously e.g. in Step S .

In Step S when the received verification code is inconsistent with or different from the verification code sent previously the server returns a login failure message to the device. In Step S when the received verification code is consistent with or the same as the verification code sent previously the server can optionally update account data of the user in the account system. In addition in Step S the server returns a login success message to the device and the login process is completed as shown in Step S .

Referring to in Step C the device receives the login failure message or the login success message from the server. When the device receives the login failure message the user can re try the login process. In Step C when the device receives the login success message the login process is completed.

In addition to the login process described above e.g. as shown in various other login processes can be used. For example a device can first communicate with a server to generate and agree on a verification code A. Next the device can display the verification code A to the user and the user input and send a verification code B to the server e.g. via email messaging or any other appropriate methods. In this case the user needs to ensure the verification code B is consistent with the verification code A. Then the server can determine whether the verification code B is consistent with the verification code A. When the verification code B is consistent with the verification code A the login process is successful.

Optionally after the login process is successful and completed the user can upload an address book from the device to the server. The address book can be stored on the PCS of the server e.g. stored on the PS of the PCS.

Thus in various disclosed embodiments a caller device can create a portrait file to be used as a caller ID representing the caller device. A distribution policy corresponding to the portrait file can be generated. The portrait file can be sent to the PDS and the distribution policy can be sent to the PCS. The PCS can perform a selective distribution process. Thus a callee device selected by the PCS in the selective distribution process can download the portrait file from the PDS. When the caller device calls the callee device the portrait file can be played executed or displayed as caller ID representing the caller device or user of the caller device.

By using the disclosed methods a caller is enabled to conveniently present his or her desired portrait to a callee. A caller can set multiple portrait files as his her caller ID on other user s devices. Each portrait file can be shared with one or more contacts that the caller selects. Optionally the PCS can apply further policy criteria or algorithm to further select the contacts and determine callee devices that can receive a portrait file. Thus the caller can have different portraits and selectively use the different portraits simultaneously as caller IDs for various social relationships or communication purposes.

For example the device can be a mobile phone. A caller may simultaneously use the same mobile phone for professional or business contacts family members and friends. The user may prefer to be represented by a professional style portrait when he calls his professional contacts and by a casual or funny portrait when he calls his close friends or family members.

In one example the user previously had an argument with his spouse. His spouse is unwilling to answer his phone call. However the user may create his portrait including a picture with a personal message or a funny picture to amuse his spouse and in this way his spouse is more likely to answer the phone call. He can thus convey his message via the caller ID e.g. as shown in . At the same time the user can still have a professional style portrait as his caller ID shown in the address books of his professional contacts and displayed when he calls his professional contacts. Selective distribution of caller ID can thus be accomplished. Thus caller ID can be utilized to convey information between caller and callee and communication efficiency can be further improved.

In addition in various embodiments portraits for entries in an address book can be automatically updated without being manually inputted by a user of a callee device. Thus users can have an updated address book with caller IDs customized by the contacts in the address book and the entries can be created without the user spending time and efforts.

In certain Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP technologies a portrait can be set up by a caller and thus a callee does not have to set up portraits for callers manually in an address book. However to use VoIP a callee has to use a smart phone because current feature phones usually are not enabled for VoIP. Thus setting up an address book via VoIP service has significant limitation in users and devices.

Using the methods in accordance with various disclosed embodiments users can install an appropriate application program on a device e.g. a smart phone or a feature phone in order to accomplish the features of the disclosed methods and fully utilize the built in address book on the phone. Therefore a smart phone is not essential for implementing the disclosed methods. Further users do not need to install devices with specific software of a specific VoIP service provider to have an address book established. Further users do not need to have an account and an address book set up with the specific VoIP service provider. Thus in comparison with VoIP technologies the disclosed methods can more significantly improve the convenience of managing an address book and can be applied to a much wider variety of mobile devices.

When the device is a smart phone the smart phone can download and use the application program via any appropriate IP network. When the device is a feature phone the feature phone can also implement the disclosed methods without limitation. A phone service provider for the feature phone may pre install the application program in the feature phone and thus enable the feature phone to use the application program via any appropriate IP network.

Yet further one of part of or all of the steps in the disclosed methods can be implemented via any appropriate IP network and is not limited by a time when a caller device calls a callee device. Thus the disclosed methods can provide further convenience. For example certain communication protocols such as Session Description Protocol SDP may allow simultaneously downloading a file during ringing prompt. However SDP based method requires a mobile phone to be installed with SDP and to use a service provider supporting SDP system thus having significant limitation in users and devices. In addition using the SDP the file can only be downloaded at the same time of receiving a phone call and establishing a phone conversation. In the disclosed method a portrait file can be uploaded distributed and downloaded via an IP network at any time before receiving a phone call or establishing a phone conversation and thus does not need to be simultaneous or synchronized with receiving a phone call and establishing a phone conversation. For example a callee device can download a portrait file via an IP network several hours several days or several months before receiving a ringing prompt or establishing a phone conversation with a corresponding caller device. Therefore the disclosed methods do not require supporting of the SDP do not need to rely on a service provide supporting SDP and thus are significantly more convenient.

Further the disclosed methods can enable automatic portrait setup in an address book for user s convenience. Portraits can be selectively distributed based on caller callee social relationship user preference or any other criteria.

Using the disclosed methods through a selective distribution process and appropriate selective criteria a notification for downloading a portrait file is sent to callee devices that are authorized to download the portrait file. The notification is thus not sent to callee devices that are not authorized to or do not need to download the portrait file. For example in certain embodiments when the distribution policy indicates that a callee device is authorized by the caller device to receive a portrait file the selective distribution process can determine whether the callee device has an address book including the phone number of the caller device that is whether the callee is the caller s follower. When the address book includes the phone number of the caller device i.e. the callee is the caller s follower the callee device can receive the notification for downloading the portrait file.

Various embodiments also disclose methods for providing caller ID. The methods can be implemented by a server. The methods are described in various embodiments above e.g. as shown in .

Various embodiments also disclose methods for providing caller ID. The methods can be implemented by a callee device. The methods are described in various embodiments above e.g. as shown in .

Various embodiments also disclose methods for providing caller ID. The methods can be implemented by a system including a caller device a server a callee device or a combination thereof. The methods are described in various embodiments above e.g. as shown in .

Various embodiments also disclose apparatus for providing caller ID. The apparatus can include a caller device. The apparatus includes a processor and a storage medium and any other appropriate components. The storage medium can have encoded instructions causing the apparatus to implement the methods as described in various embodiments above e.g. as shown in .

Various embodiments also disclose apparatus for providing caller ID. The apparatus can include a server. The apparatus includes a processor and a storage medium and any other appropriate components. The storage medium can have encoded instructions causing the apparatus to implement the methods as described in various embodiments above e.g. as shown in .

Various embodiments also disclose apparatus for providing caller ID. The apparatus can include a callee device. The apparatus includes a processor and a storage medium and any other appropriate components. The storage medium can have encoded instructions causing the apparatus to implement the methods as described in various embodiments above e.g. as shown in .

Various embodiments also disclose systems for providing caller ID. The system can include a caller device a server a callee device or a combination thereof to implement the methods as disclosed in various embodiments e.g. as shown in .

Part or all of the steps in the methods in accordance with various embodiments can be accomplished using a program software to instruct related hardware. The program software can be stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium including e.g. ROM RAM magnetic disk optical disk etc.

The embodiments disclosed herein are exemplary only. Other applications advantages alternations modifications or equivalents to the disclosed embodiments are obvious to those skilled in the art and are intended to be encompassed within the scope of the present disclosure.

