---

title: Watercraft with interchangeable hull structure
abstract: A watercraft having a changeable hull structure. More particularly, a watercraft having a first subassembly and one or more second subassemblies. The first subassembly includes a sponson, a flooring, and a transom, the one or more second subassemblies, each being a replaceable hull structure. The first subassembly and each of the one or more second subassemblies have commensurate shapes allowing for attachment and/or replacement of the one or more replaceable hull structures. The watercraft also includes one or more elongated connectors are used to attach the first and second subassemblies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09114853&OS=09114853&RS=09114853
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 09114853
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140627
---
The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a watercraft having a replaceable hull structure. More particularly a watercraft having a first subassembly and one or more second subassemblies. The first subassembly and each of the one or more second subassemblies have commensurate shapes allowing for attachment and or replacement of the one or more replaceable hull structures.

Current watercraft designs are fixed and fabricated by manufacturers. Different mission scenarios require different craft capabilities in order to maximize performance. Different mission scenarios may require different payloads hull forms structures materials or propulsion systems. Typically in order to alter a craft s performance substantial manufacturing modifications are necessary. This task is made more difficult because one craft alteration to improve a desired characteristic may have adverse effects on other desired characteristics. Thus it is desired to have a watercraft design that accommodates for different mission scenarios without the need for making substantial manufacturing modifications.

In one aspect the invention a watercraft having a replaceable hull structure. In this aspect the watercraft has a first subassembly and a second subassembly. The first subassembly includes a sponson and a flooring attached to the sponson. The flooring has an outer circumferential area defining a substantially V shaped receiving region. The first subassembly also includes a transom. In this aspect the second subassembly is a hull structure. The hull structure has a bow end a stern end and an upper rim. The upper rim is substantially V shaped commensurate with the substantially V shaped receiving region of the first subassembly so that the upper rim matingly attaches at the substantially V shaped receiving region. The watercraft having the replaceable hull structure also includes one or more elongated connectors. Each elongated connector includes a first elongated connector portion extending on the flooring at the substantially V shaped receiving region and a second elongated connector portion extending along the substantially V shaped upper rim wherein the first and second elongated connector portions lockingly mate replaceably attaching the hull structure to the first subassembly.

In another aspect the invention is a watercraft assembly. The watercraft assembly includes a first subassembly and a plurality of second subassemblies. In this aspect the first subassembly includes a sponson and a flooring attached to the sponson. The flooring has an outer circumferential area defining a substantially V shaped receiving region. The first subassembly also includes a transom. In this aspect each of the plurality of second subassemblies is a replaceable hull structure. Each replaceable hull structure has a bow end a stern end and a upper rim. The upper rim is substantially V shaped commensurate with the substantially V shaped receiving region of the first subassembly so that the upper rim matingly attaches at the substantially V shaped receiving region. The watercraft assembly also includes one or more elongated connectors. Each elongated connector has a first elongated connector portion extending on the flooring at the substantially V shaped receiving region and a second elongated connector portion extending along the substantially V shaped upper rim of each of the plurality or replaceable hull structures wherein the first and second elongated connector portions lockingly mate replaceably attaching one of the plurality of replaceable hull structures to the first subassembly.

Different mission scenarios require different watercraft capabilities in order to optimize performance. According to the invention the watercraft is designed to accommodate for different mission scenarios without the need for making substantial manufacturing modifications. Different hull structures may be attached to the first subassembly to enable the watercraft to accommodate for the different mission scenarios.

Regarding the substantially V shaped upper rim as with the receiving region it should be understood that the upper rim shape described herein as V shaped is representative of a plan view i.e. as viewed from above. Additionally according to embodiments of the invention the apex of substantially V shaped upper rim may be more rounded and the overall shape may be more akin to being substantially U shaped. It should also be noted that the shape of the upper rim and the shape of the receiving region are designed to match so a substantially U shaped upper rim is commensurate with a substantially U shaped opening allowing for a matching connection between the first and second subassemblies and .

It should be noted that the watercraft as outlined herein may a solid fixed structure. Alternatively according to a desired embodiment the watercraft may be primarily inflatable. Consequently before and after use the air may be discharged and the watercraft may be folded up and stowed in a relatively small container or area making it an easy asset to transport. According to this embodiment each of the sponson the flooring and the hull structure is inflatable and made from a coated fabric material. The fabric may be for example nylon polyester or the like. The fabric may also be made from materials such as Kevlar Vectran or the like or combinations of the above listed materials. The fabric may be coated with natural rubber neoprene rubber chlorosulfanated polyethylene material or the like. Unlike the other elements the transom may be made from any desired rigid material of fixed shape such as a metal or polymer for example.

According to this embodiment two pairs of elongated connectors attach the replaceable second subassembly hull structure to the first subassembly . As shown there is a first pair of elongated connectors connecting the outer panels to the flooring or directly to the sponson and a second pair of elongated connectors connecting the inner panels to the flooring . The two sets of elongated connectors fortify the attachment with the double paneled hull structure . A first pair of elongated connectors connect the outer panels to the first subassembly and a second elongated connectors connect the inner panels to the first subassembly . As shown the elongated connectors may attach the panels to the flooring . As outlined above each elongated connector may be a zipper as shown in or a hook and loop arrangement. Similar to the illustration of the replaceable hull structure includes a bow and a stern and the bow is tucked in at the protective cup which protects the bow and the front end of the elongated connectors .

It should be noted that the watercrafts of have the same general material characteristics as outlined above with respect to the embodiments of . Thus the watercrafts may be a solid fixed structure. According to a desired embodiment the watercrafts shown in may be primarily inflatable. According to this embodiment each of the sponson the flooring and the hull structures and are inflatable and made from a coated fabric material. The fabric may be for example nylon polyester or the like. The fabric may also be made from materials such as Kevlar Vectran or the like or combinations of the above listed materials. The fabric may be coated with natural rubber neoprene rubber chlorosulfanated polyethylene material or the like. Unlike the other elements the transom may be made from any desired rigid material of fixed shape such as a metal or polymer for example.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. For example as outlined above the substantially V shapes of the opening and the upper rim may have respective rounded apexes and thus have respective shapes that are more akin to substantially U shapes. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

