---

title: User equipment reallocation between nodes
abstract: A technology for a power management module that is operable to reduce power consumption in a communications network. A resource availability of one or more evolved node B (eNode Bs) in the communications network can be determine to receive data traffic of a plurality of user equipment (UEs) in communication with a serving eNode B. A power consumption rate of the communications network can be calculated when the serving eNode B is placed in a power saving mode. The serving eNode B can be switched to a power savings mode when the resource availability of the one or more eNode Bs enables the plurality of UEs to be handed over from the serving eNode B to selected eNode Bs of the one or more eNode Bs.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09357513&OS=09357513&RS=09357513
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09357513
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140716
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 863 902 filed Aug. 8 2014.

Increased use of mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets with an expanding number of wireless services offered on the devices such as streaming video have placed increased data loads and throughput requirements on wireless networks. To handle the increasing amount of wireless services to an increasing numbers of users various multiple antenna techniques can be employed in wireless network environments to meet the increasing data and throughput demands.

In homogeneous networks transmission stations also called macro nodes can provide basic wireless coverage to mobile devices. The geographical coverage area for each node can be referred to as a cell. The geographical coverage area of a macro node can be referred to as a macro cell. Heterogeneous networks HetNets were introduced to handle increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of mobile devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNode Bs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes micro nodes pico nodes femto nodes home nodes relay stations etc. that can be deployed in a less organized or uncoordinated manner within the coverage area of the macro nodes. The macro nodes can be used for basic coverage and the low power nodes can be used to fill coverage holes to improve capacity in hot zones or at the boundaries between the macro nodes coverage areas and to improve indoor coverage where building structures impede signal transmission.

As the number of communications networks increases as well as the geographical coverage of the wireless cellular networks using HetNets energy efficiency is becoming an increasingly important aspect of communications networks such as HetNets. However nodes in communications systems were not built specifically for energy efficiency. Additionally there are increasingly more and more applications on user equipment UEs using always on connections to a serving application in the network. In one example UE applications such as a social networking application a voice over internet protocol VOIP application or a location service application may generate background traffic even when the UE or the application is not in active use. The background traffic from these applications may include packets of relatively small size which may be sent intermittently.

Reducing a number of active nodes used in a communications networks such as a HetNet can be used to reduce an overall power consumption in a communications network. However maintaining UE connectivity including connectivity for UE background traffic and always on applications makes reducing the number of nodes in a communications network difficult. Accordingly there is a need to improve an efficiency of saving energy in communication networks.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

Radio links are often shared amongst multiple users where the network selection by each user equipment UE is based only on maximizing the throughput performance of the UE. The self maximizing network selection of each UE can cause undesirable overall user and system performance and power consumption. In one example a UE may excessively switch back and forth between different radio networks causing a significant gap between actual performance and optimal achievable performance of the user and the system and wastefully using power.

SC node on off techniques can be used to manage interference and power consumption in a HetNet with small cells while maintaining UE connectivity. In one embodiment one SC node on off technique can be that when a SC evolved node B SC eNode B does not have any UEs associated with the SC eNode B or when the SC eNode B is not communicating any data with associated UEs the SC eNode B can be switched off without impacting the UE connectivity. In this technique the communications network power consumption and interference within the communications network can be reduced without negatively affecting the performance of other eNode Bs and or UEs in the communications network. However this technique can be less effective when the communications network requires that the SC node on off technique not impacting UE connectivity as SC eNode Bs can often be prevented from being turning off as UEs associated with the SC eNode Bs can continually communicate small amounts of traffic low loaded SC eNode Bs such as when UEs use always on applications or applications that run in the background.

Another SC node on off technique can include UE reallocation between the SC nodes to free up the SC eNode Bs from the reallocated UEs to be turned off. shows SC eNode Bs and that each have an associated UE and . In one embodiment SC eNode B communicates data with UE and SC eNode Bs and communicate low loading data traffic with UEs and e.g. UE and have ongoing VoIP calls. further illustrates that to support each associated UE connectivity the SC eNodes Bs and each transmit reference signals and such as cell specific reference CRS signals. Traditionally when the SC eNode Bs transmitting various reference signals the transmitted reference signals can produce interference with communications in neighboring cells in a communications network. Additionally SC eNode Bs and each supporting the associated UEs and can require using power for transmitting data receive data processing data running schedulers and so forth.

In one embodiment a power consumption of an eNode B can be determined using a relation between a relative radio frequency RF output power P and a power consumption of an eNode B Pin calculated using 

In one embodiment the power consumption of the communications network can be determined using field measurements of SC eNode Bs used by a cellular operator. In another embodiment to reduce a power consumption of a network for a deployment of N similar SC eNode Bs a selected number of eNode Bs can be switched off while maintaining a substantially same amount of total traffic from UEs in the communications network i.e. maintain the UE connectivity . In another embodiment the communications network can determine when one or more SC eNode Bs have available resources to accommodate UE traffic of a selected eNode B. In another embodiment the communications network can determine one or more SC eNode Bs have available resources to accommodate a substantially same data rate of UEs of the selected eNode B i.e. no substantial data rate degradation happens when a UE camps on one of the one or more SC eNode Bs or is handed over to one of the one or more SC eNode Bs.

In one embodiment when the communications network determines one or more SC eNode Bs have available resources to accommodate UE traffic of the selected eNode B and the one or more SC eNode Bs have available resources to accommodate a substantially same data rate of UEs of the selected eNode B a network device can determine a power consumption of the communications network before one or more UEs are handed over to the one or more SC eNode Bs and the selected eNode B is switched off using 

In another embodiment the network device can determine a power consumption of the communications network after one or more UEs are handed over to the one or more SC eNode Bs and the selected eNode B is switched of using 

In one embodiment when there is no data rate degradation of the UE data from handover the one or more UEs to the one or more eNode Bs then 

In one embodiment based on equation 5 a power savings of the communications network can be determine using 6 

In one example a power saving of a communications network can be P Pwhen one or more active SC eNode Bs neighboring the selected SC eNode B have available resources to receive all the UEs of the selected SC eNode B in the communications network. In another example when all the active SC eNodes Bs neighboring the selected SC eNode B do not have available resources to receive all the UEs of the selected SC eNode B in the communications network when the selected SC eNode B is switched off a power loss of the communications network may be equal to P.

In one embodiment an optimal number of active SC eNode Bs in a communications network for a reduction of power consumption can be reached when a number of SC eNode Bs in an on state or sleeping mode is minimal and the resources of the active SC eNode Bs are all substantially being used. Traditionally SC node on off techniques redistribute UE traffic between eNode Bs in a communications network to maximize a throughput of the communications network. One disadvantage of basing SC node on off techniques on maximizing a throughput of the communications network can be all the eNodes Bs in the communications network are active. One advantage of a power consumption reduction based SC node on off technique can be a switching off of SC eNode Bs to reduce a power consumption of the communications network without impacting a throughput of the communications network. Another advantage of a power consumption reduction based SC node on off technique can be to balance a throughput of the communications network with a power consumption of the communications network.

In one embodiment the computer circuitry can be configured to calculate the power consumption rate of the communications network by comparing an amount of power consumed by the communications network before UE traffic is reallocated to the second eNode B with an amount of power consumed by the communications network after UE traffic is reallocated to the second eNode B and the first eNode B is switched to power savings mode. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to determine a data rate of the UE when the UE is reallocated to the second eNode B.

In one embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to handover the UE when the data rate of the UE remains within a selected threshold range when the UE is handed over to the second eNode B and the power consumption rate of the communications network decreases by at least a threshold amount. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to continue to maintain the UE connection with the first eNode B when the calculated power consumption rate of the communications network remains above a selected threshold rate. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to turn off the first eNode B or switch the first eNode B to a sleep mode when the first eNode B enters the power savings mode. In another embodiment the sleep mode is a minimum power operating level of the first eNode B.

In one embodiment the computer circuitry can be configured to calculate the power consumption rate of the communications network by comparing an amount of power consumed by the communications network before the serving eNode B is placed in the power saving mode with an amount of power consumed by the network after the serving eNode B is placed in the power saving mode. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to calculate the amount of power consumed by the communications network before the serving eNode B is placed in the power saving mode using 

In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to determine a change in power consumption of the communications network using P Pwhen the serving eNode B is switched to the power saving mode. In another embodiment the computer circuitry can be further configured to reallocate the data traffic of the plurality of UEs from the serving eNode B to the one or more eNode Bs in the communications network when a data rate of each UE in the plurality of UEs remains within a selected threshold range when each UE is reallocated to the one or more eNode Bs and the power consumption rate of the communications network decreases by at least a threshold amount. In another embodiment the one or more eNode Bs are small cell eNode Bs and the serving eNode B is a small cell eNode B. In another embodiment the one or more eNode Bs and the serving eNode B may include macro eNode Bs micro eNode Bs pico eNode Bs femto eNode Bs and or other types of eNode Bs.

Another example provides functionality of product including a non transitory storage medium having stored thereon instructions that are adapted to be executed to implement a method of reducing power consumption of a communications network as in the flow chart in . The instructions of the product can be implemented as a method or as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. In one embodiment the method can comprise determining resource availability of evolved node Bs eNode Bs in the communications network to receive data traffic of a plurality of user equipment UEs in communication with a selected eNode B in the communications network as in block . In another embodiment the method can further comprise calculating a power consumption rate of the communications network when the selected eNode B is placed in a power saving mode as in block . In another embodiment the method can further comprise switching the selected eNode B to the power savings mode when the resource availability of the eNode Bs in the communications network enables the plurality of UEs to be handed over from the selected eNode B to the eNode Bs in the communications network.

In one embodiment the method can further comprise calculating the power consumption rate of the communications network by comparing an amount of power consumed by the communications network before the selected eNode B is placed in the power saving mode with an amount of power consumed by the network after the selected eNode B is placed in the power saving mode. In another embodiment the method can further comprise handing over the plurality of UEs to the eNode Bs based on a reduction in the power consumption rate of the communications network. In another embodiment the method can further comprise handing over the plurality of UEs from the selected eNode B to the eNode Bs in the communications network when a data rate of each UE in the plurality of UEs remains within a selected threshold range when each UE is reallocated to the eNode Bs and the power consumption rate of the communications network decreases by at least a threshold amount.

In another embodiment the method can further comprise maintaining the UE connection with the selected eNode B when the calculated power consumption rate of the communications network remains above a selected threshold rate. In another embodiment the method can further comprise dynamically handing over the plurality of UEs to the eNode Bs based on a reduction in the power consumption rate of the communications network to continuously reduce the power consumption rate of the communications network.

In one embodiment the method can further comprise calculating the amount of power consumed by the network before the selected eNode B is placed in the power saving mode using 

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and mobile station may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the foregoing description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the foregoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

