---

title: Systems and methods for enabling subscriber monitoring of telecommunications network usage and service plans
abstract: Methods, servers and systems for managing subscriber accounts within a telecommunications network. A server may be configured to identify a network access scheme (e.g., subscription plan, service pass, etc.) associated with a subscriber account, and use contextual information received from components in the telecommunication network to intelligently determine whether to notify the user of the availability of different network access schemes based on various factors, such as based on determining whether any available service pass is more cost effective than the currently installed service pass, whether any available service pass will provide a user equipment device with an increased quality of service relative to the currently installed service pass, whether any available subscription plan will provide the user equipment device with an increased quality of service relative to the current subscription plan, or whether any available subscription plan is more cost effective than the current subscription plan.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09497611&OS=09497611&RS=09497611
owner: OPENET TELECOM LTD.
number: 09497611
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20141126
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 454 896 titled Systems for Enabling Subscriber Monitoring of Telecommunications Network Usage and Service Plans filed on Apr. 24 2012 which claims the benefit of priority to each of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 479 136 titled Mobile application server that Enables Users to Directly Access Telecommunications Operator Services filed Apr. 26 2011 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 537 419 titled Mobile application server that Enables Users to Directly Access Telecommunications Operator Services filed Sep. 21 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 546 818 entitled Mobile application server that Enables Users to Directly Access Telecommunications Operator Services filed Oct. 13 2011 the entire contents of all of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

Wireless and cellular communication technologies have seen dramatic improvements over the past few years. Cellular service providers now offer users a wide array of services higher usage limits and attractive subscription plans. Wireless dongles and embedded wireless modem cards allow network subscribers to use tablet computers netbooks and laptops to access wireless Internet protocol IP and data services through the cellular networks. Internet enabled smart phones tablets and gaming consoles have become essential personal accessories connecting subscribers to friends work leisure activities and entertainment. Subscribers now have more choices and expect to have access to content data and communications at any time in any place and at a reasonable cost. As service providers continue to offer additional services and service plans providing subscribers with effective account management and monitoring tools is becoming an important and challenging task.

The various embodiments include methods of accessing live charging information in a telecommunications network including receiving in a mobile application server a first charging request from a user equipment identifying a relevant charging system based on the first charging request generating a second charging request message based on the first charging request sending the generated second charging request to the identified charging system for processing receiving in the mobile application server a first response message including charging information from the identified charging system in response to sending the generated second charging request to the identified charging system generating in the mobile application server a second response message based on the charging information included in the first response message and sending from the mobile application server the generated second response message to the user equipment. In an embodiment receiving a first charging request from a user equipment may include receiving a charging request that may include at least one of charging information associated with a specific network subscriber charging information associated with a subscriber defined counter charging information associated with a specific service for the specific network subscriber charging information associated with non telecommunications related service and charging information associated with specific devices belonging to the specific network subscriber. In a further embodiment sending the generated second charging request to the identified charging system for processing may include sending a charging request that instructs the identified charging system to modify charging information.

In a further embodiment the method may include setting a threshold based on information included in the first charging request. In a further embodiment the method may include sending a notification to the user equipment when the set threshold is breached. In a further embodiment identifying a relevant charging system based on the first charging request may include receiving information from subscriber repository determining a charging system type based on the information received from subscriber repository and identifying the relevant charging system based on the determined charging system type. In a further embodiment identifying a relevant charging system based on the first charging request may include identifying one of an online charging system OCS and an offline charging system OFCS .

In a further embodiment the method may include predicting future charging spending balances and rates based on the charging information included in the first response message. In a further embodiment receiving a first charging request from a user equipment may include receiving a charging request that may include information for obtaining network connectivity without having a prior commercial relationship. In a further embodiment receiving a first charging request from a user equipment may include receiving a charging request that may include loyalty information. In a further embodiment receiving a first charging request from a user equipment may include receiving a charging request that may include information for transferring cost information from a first billing category to a second billing category.

Further embodiments may include a server configured with server executable instructions to perform various operations corresponding to the methods discussed above.

Further embodiments may include a computing device having a processor configured with processor executable instructions to perform various operations corresponding to the methods discussed above.

Further embodiments may include a computing device that may include various means for performing functions corresponding to the method operations discussed above.

Further embodiments may include a non transitory processor readable storage medium having stored thereon processor executable instructions configured to cause a processor to perform various operations corresponding to the method operations discussed above.

Further embodiments may include a system having a computing device that may include a transceiver a memory and a device processor coupled to the memory and transceiver and a communications server having a server transceiver a server memory and a server processor coupled to the server memory in which the server and or device processors are configured with processor executable instructions to perform various operations corresponding to the methods discussed above.

The various embodiments will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. References made to particular examples and implementations are for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention or the claims.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any implementation described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations.

The terms mobile device wireless device and user equipment UE may be used interchangeably and refer to any one of various cellular telephones smart phones e.g. iPhone personal data assistants PDA s palm top computers tablet computers e.g. iPad laptop computers wireless electronic mail receivers e.g. Blackberry VoIP phones wire line devices devices implementing Machine to Machine M2M technologies multimedia Internet enabled cellular telephones IP enabled televisions IP enabled entertainment systems and similar electronic devices that include a programmable processor and are capable of sending and receiving wireless or wireline communication signals. In a preferred embodiment the wireless device is a cellular handheld device e.g. a mobile device which may communicate via a cellular telephone communications network.

The phrases Diameter reference points Diameter applications and Diameter interfaces may be used interchangeably and refer to specific implementations of the Diameter protocol. However when possible the phrase Diameter application is used to describe an extension of the Diameter base protocol which is built on top of the Diameter base protocol and the phrase Diameter reference point is used to describe an interface between network components that employ the Diameter protocol to realize communications i.e. network components realize communications over a reference point . Diameter applications may use the same name as Diameter reference points e.g. Gx reference point and Gx Diameter application the distinction being that at each end of the reference point there may be a client node and a server node.

A number of different cellular and mobile communication services and standards are available or contemplated in the future all of which may implement and benefit from the various embodiments. Such services and standards include third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE systems third generation wireless mobile communication technology 3G fourth generation wireless mobile communication technology 4G global system for mobile communications GSM universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS 3GSM general packet radio service GPRS code division multiple access CDMA systems e.g. cdmaOne CDMA2000 enhanced data rates for GSM evolution EDGE advanced mobile phone system AMPS digital AMPS IS 136 TDMA evolution data optimized EV DO digital enhanced cordless telecommunications DECT Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX wireless local area network WLAN Wi Fi Protected Access I II WPA WPA2 and integrated digital enhanced network iden . Each of these technologies involves for example the transmission and reception of signaling and content messages. It should be understood that any references to terminology and or technical details related to an individual standard or technology are for illustrative purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the claims to a particular communication system or technology unless specifically recited in the claim language.

In recent years telecommunication service providers have begun offering many new services and user equipment devices e.g. cellular phones smartphones tablets laptop computers etc. have become faster and more feature rich than ever. For example smartphones now have impressive processing capabilities high speed communication circuitry e.g. radios modems etc. and are capable of executing powerful network intensive applications. Smartphone applications that involve network usage include for example productivity applications e.g. calendars video conferencing etc. photo and video applications YouTube Netflix etc. social media applications e.g. Facebook etc. and other similar applications that generate and or consume large amounts of information exchanged over telecommunications and or IP networks. Likewise traditional telephony systems have improved and converged with IP data systems resulting in lower wireless data subscription costs and improved network speeds. These advances have resulted in a dramatic increase in the volume of information being communicated on wireless networks and are driving the ever increasing customer demand for wireless communications.

To meet customer demands and manage increases in network traffic telecommunication service providers now offer their customers a wide array of subscription plans including pre paid plans flat rate plans actual usage plans unlimited usage plans post paid plans usage limited plans multi user plans and various other plans based on the amount of bandwidth voice text data and or other services used per billing period. These plans enable service providers to offer their customers feature combinations that meet their customers usage needs while maximizing revenue and or reducing network traffic. However the proliferation of such subscription plans has increased the complexity of managing subscriber accounts particularly from the subscriber s perspective. Subscribers are often confused about the types or amounts of services they may consume and or the costs associated with consuming certain services. As a result customers may experience bill shock when charges for services used during a month exceed their cost expectations.

To help customers manage the complexity associated with the wide variety of available subscriber services and service plans telecommunications operators have begun to provide subscribers with web based access to their accounts. However telecommunications operators often do not have full access to all of the components in the network and as a result cannot provide subscribers with access to certain network resources e.g. online charging systems discussed below or provide them with complete information regarding certain details of their usage or subscription plans e.g. details relating to charging metering balance policy etc. . Also existing solutions only provide customers with access to usage information e.g. via a website that displays data consumption in MBs for the current month and do not allow customers to set fine grain controls such as real time usage limits.

The various embodiments provide subscribers with a more complete access to network resources and subscription plan information enabling subscribers to more fully monitor and control data communication costs and services on their user equipment devices. The various embodiments include methods devices and systems that enable customers to use their user equipment devices to directly access and modify information maintained within a telecommunications network operator s business and operating systems infrastructure. Various embodiments enable subscribers to monitor on the user equipment their actual service usage comparing their usage against one or more quotas simplifying the management of subscriber accounts. Various embodiments enable subscribers to set fine grain controls e.g. usage limits that operate independently from the telecommunication service providers. Various embodiments enable subscribers to analyze and compare their past and predicted services usage with available subscription plans and identify other subscription plans that are likely to be more cost effective.

The various embodiments may be implemented within a variety of telecommunication systems an example of which is illustrated in . Wireless devices may be configured to send and receive voice data and control signals to and from a service network and ultimately the Internet using a variety of communication systems technologies e.g. GPRS UMTS LTE cdmaOne CDMA2000 . In the example illustrated in general packet radio service GPRS data transmitted from a wireless device is received by a base transceiver station BTS and sent to a base station controller BSC and or packet control unit PCU component BSC PCU . Code division multiple access CDMA data transmitted from a wireless device is received by a base transceiver station and sent to a base station controller BSC and or point coordination function PCF component BSC PCF . Universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS data transmitted from a wireless device is received by a NodeB and sent to a radio network controller RNC . Long term evolution LTE data transmitted from a wireless device is received by an eNodeB and sent directly to a serving gateway SGW located within the EPC .

The BSC PCU RNC and BSC PCF components process the GPRS UMTS and CDMS data respectively and send the processed data to a node within the EPC . More specifically the BSC PCU and RNC units send the processed data to a serving GPRS support node SGSN and the BSC PCF sends the processed data to a packet data serving node PDSN and or high rate packet data serving gateway HSGW component PDSN HSGW . The PDSN HSGW may act as a connection point between the radio access network and the IP based PCEF PGW . The SGSN is responsible for routing the data within a particular geographical service area and may send signaling control plane information e.g. information pertaining to communication setup security authentication etc. to a mobility management entity MME . The MME may request subscriber and subscription information from a home subscriber server HSS perform various administrative tasks e.g. subscriber authentication enforcement of roaming restrictions etc. select a SGW and send administrative and or authorization information to the SGSN .

Upon receiving the authorization information from the MME e.g. an authentication complete indication an identifier of a selected SGW etc. the SGSN sends the GPRS UMTS data to a selected SGW . The SGW stores information about the data e.g. parameters of the IP bearer service network internal routing information etc. and forwards user data packets to a policy control enforcement function PCEF and or packet data network gateway PGW . The PCEF PGW sends signaling information control plane to a policy control rules function PCRF . The PCRF accesses subscriber databases creates a set of policy rules and performs other specialized functions e.g. interacts with online offline charging systems application functions etc. and sends the intelligent policy rules to the PCEF PGW for enforcement. The PCEF PGW implements the policy rules to control the bandwidth the quality of service QoS the characteristics of the data and the services being communicated between the service network and the end users e.g. network subscribers .

The access gateway forwards the voice data and control signals to other network components as user data packets provides connectivity to external packet data networks manages and stores contexts e.g. network internal routing information etc. and acts as an anchor between different technologies e.g. 3GPP and non 3GPP systems . The access gateway may coordinate the transmission and reception of data to and from the Internet as well as the transmission and reception of voice data and control information to and from an external service network connected to the Internet to other base stations and to wireless devices . The access gateway may also route control information to a policy and charging control PCC network which may be a part of an implementation of an evolved packet core EPC long term evolution LTE architecture. In the various embodiments the access gateway may be a part of the policy and charging control network and the functions described may be implemented in a single computing device or in many computing devices coupled in a local area network or wide area network using any of the above mentioned telecommunication technologies e.g. 3G 4G GPRS UMTS LTE etc. .

Returning to as mentioned above the access gateway routes control signaling information e.g. call setup security authentication charging enforcement of policy rules etc. to the policy and charging control PCC network which is an example of a telecommunications signaling network. The PCC network provides policy and service control rules controls charging functionalities and provides quality of service QoS authorizations. The PCC network may include one or more components for a policy and charging enforcement function PCEF a policy charging rules function PCRF an off line charging system OFCS an on line charging system OCS a subscriber profile repository SPR and an application function AF .

Components in the PCC network e.g. PCEF PCRF OFCS OCS SPR AF may communicate using a standardized protocol such as the Diameter protocol remote authentication dial in user service RADIUS protocol session initiation protocol SIP or any other telecommunications network protocol. To focus the discussion on the relevant features and functionalities the various embodiments are described with reference to the Diameter protocol. However it is to be understood that the various embodiments are protocol agnostic and should not be limited to the Diameter protocol unless expressly recited in the claims.

The PCEF may receive signaling messages from a gateway e.g. Access Gateway illustrated in and use information contained within the signaling messages to select an optimal route and a quality of service QoS for a particular type of service as well as to enforce various policies on the services. The enforcement of policies may include querying coordinating removing revoking and or adjusting various resources e.g. network resources subscriber resources etc. based on a set of policy rules.

The PCEF enforces policies by implementing a set of policy rules. Each policy rule may govern the services QoS and or bandwidth that are to be made available to a particular subscriber. The policy rules may also govern the times when certain services are made accessible to the subscriber e.g. weekdays from 9 AM to 5 PM etc. and how long the subscriber may access those services e.g. 15 minutes at a time a total of two hours etc. 

The PCRF is responsible for identifying the appropriate policy rules for a given communication session of a given subscriber or terminal device and sending the identified policy rules to the PCEF for enforcement. Specifically the PCRF is responsible for generating compiling and selecting a set of business and technology rules that define the policies that are to be enforced for particular call sessions. The PCRF may make rule decisions on a per subscriber per session and or per service basis. For example the PCRF may use subscriber information e.g. subscriber s city of residence the current usage parameters e.g. day of week time of day peak hours etc. the subscriber s service level e.g. Gold Bronze etc. and other information related to the subscriber session or service to generate and or select one or more rules or a rule group. The selected rules or rule group may be communicated to the PCEF e.g. via the Gx interface as a profile that defines the policies to be enforced. The PCRF may include one or more databases for storing default rules maintaining generated rules and keeping track of session information.

The PCRF may request subscriber profile information from the subscriber profile repository SPR which maintains subscriber profiles e.g. customer IDs preferences subscription levels balances etc. in one or more data stores.

An application function AF represents a node involved in the delivery of an application or service e.g. voice over IP voice and video call video on demand etc. that may be used by a subscriber or that may have dealings with the subscriber. The AF may communicate with the PCRF to ensure that the generated rules are sufficient to provide subscribers with a quality of service QoS commensurate with the requirements of their requested services flows. For example if a current policy is being enforced based on rules for receiving a particular service e.g. a voice over IP call and the subscriber requests an additional amount of a given service or another service e.g. a voice and video call the application function component may push a new set of rules to the PCRF reflecting the service changes e.g. QoS etc. required for the additional services. The application function may also store information unique to each subscriber service session and or application.

In addition to receiving rules from the PCRF the PCEF component may also communicate with an on line charging system OCS and an offline charging system OFCS to identify the policies that are to be enforced and or to ensure proper charging. For example the PCEF may periodically inform the OFCS of the amount of wireless data that is being used by a subscriber. The OFCS may use this information to monitor the aggregate amount of data service used by each subscriber and to generate a record that may be collected processed formatted correlated aggregated filtered and or sent to an external billing system for processing into a billing statement. In order to monitor the data service usage of each subscriber the OFCS may store information related to each subscriber session and or service.

The PCEF may also periodically inform the OCS of services requested by a subscriber. The OCS is generally responsible for determining if the subscriber has sufficient funds credits access units to receive a requested service. In various embodiments the OCS may also perform other operations related to charging balance management and real time rating. The OCS may grant or deny access based on the amount of fund credits access units available. In an embodiment the OCS may manage pre pay services. In an embodiment the OCS may manage a combination of pre pay and post pay services in which some or a portion of the services require a pre paid balance and some or a portion of the services may be billed to the client. In any case the PCEF may issue requests for service authorization to the OCS and the OCS may respond with a message granting or denying authorization. As part of its operations the OCS may store information unique to each subscriber session and or service.

The Diameter protocol provides a base protocol i.e. Diameter base protocol and a framework for defining custom extensions i.e. Diameter applications to the base protocol. The base protocol defines a set of generic messages useful for low level operations e.g. establishing connectivity hand shaking etc. and the framework allows application developers to develop Diameter applications i.e. extensions of the Diameter base protocol that define custom messages for more specialized operations. By extending the Diameter base protocol Diameter applications may use all of the features provided by the Diameter base protocol as well as any custom protocol extensions they define. For example a Diameter application may use Diameter base protocol components to define exactly how messages are to be communicated and define custom extensions that describe the content of the messages being communicated.

As mentioned above logical components e.g. PCEF PCRF AF SPR OCS OFCS in the PCC network may use the Diameter protocol to communicate with each other. Components that use the Diameter protocol may support various standardized Diameter applications e.g. Gx Gy Gz Rx Sy etc. that are especially well suited for their specialized operations.

The logical components e.g. PCEF PCRF AF SPR OCS OFCS in the PCC network may also communicate with resources outside of the provider network. For example the PCRF in a home provider network may need to communicate with an external PCRF in another provider network such as while a subscriber s cell phone roams in the other provider s network. The external PCRF may communicate with the appropriate logical components e.g. PCRF OCS etc. in the home provider network to ensure proper charging QoS etc. In the illustrated example the external PCRF communicates with PCRF through the S9 interface.

To focus the discussion on the relevant features various logical components e.g. PCEF PCRF AF SPR OFCS OCS etc. are described as using specific Diameter protocols. However it should be understood that any protocol may be used e.g. RADIUS SIP etc. and nothing in the claims should be limited to a particular interface protocol or application unless expressly recited in the claims.

One of the successes of modern user equipment such as smart phones is related to the ease and convenience with which applications may be downloaded from the application stores. Accordingly telecommunications operators have endeavored to create applications that have enabled them to offer a range of services to their customers to access from their user equipment. These telecommunications applications have typically been created using a three tier approach in which the telecommunications network e.g. networks illustrated in or is organized into a client side tier a middle tier and a back end infrastructure tier. The client side tier may include software that runs on the user equipment the back end infrastructure tier may include computer systems that reside in a telecommunications operator s infrastructure and provide operator services e.g. identity and authorization management policy management charging management etc. and the middle tier may include software e.g. an application server on the Internet that links the client and infrastructure tiers.

While the three tier approach has certain benefits there are numerous difficulties associated with integrating a telecommunications operator s back end infrastructure with applications that are designed to run on user equipment. For instance telecommunications operators do not have full access to all of the components in the network and cannot provide subscribers with access to certain network resources e.g. online charging system illustrated in or provide them with complete information regarding certain details of their usage or subscription plans e.g. details relating to charging metering balance policy etc . Also existing solutions only provide subscribers with access to usage information e.g. via a website that displays data consumption in MBs for the current month and do not allow the subscriber to set fine grain controls real time usage limits .

The various embodiments provide subscribers with a more complete access to network resources and subscription plan information enabling subscribers to more fully monitor and control data communication costs and services on their user equipment. Various embodiments include mobile application server MAS systems which may be architecturally similar to and compatible with the middle tier in the three tier approach used to deploy other applications for telecommunication operators. Examples of applications that could harness the various embodiments include services provided by third party telecommunications operators e.g. roaming services transit services etc. services provided by third party partners e.g. mobile commerce applications payment services etc. services provided by applications that reside within a cloud architecture and Web 2.0 style over the top applications and services e.g. YouTube video downloads Internet widgets that run on top of the services being provisioned directly by the service provider.

The user equipment may be terminal equipment owned and operated by a subscriber. Examples of user equipment include mobile phones smart phones e.g. iPhones tablet devices e.g. iPads smart televisions smart appliances and other similar electronic devices that communicate via a telecommunication network. Each user equipment unit may include a software client application that enables interaction between a subscriber and the user equipment and the mobile application server . The software client may also implement business functionality and or may be configured to perform Web 2.0 style mashups. The software client may be designed specifically for a particular type of user equipment .

The web application server may be a third party web server that provides additional business logic and or presentation layer functionality for subscribers.

The presentation layer engine may be configured to expose a public interface of the mobile application server to the user equipment and or web application server . The presentation layer engine may be configured to apply business logic and or perform data manipulation operations on the information received from the mobile application server user equipment or web application server and or to present information e.g. through a firewall and or network address translation unit to the user equipment or web application server in a format that is readily usable by the user equipment and or the web application server . In an embodiment the presentation layer engine may be configured to tailor the information to a particular type of client e.g. Type Type etc. as opposed to a particular subscriber. For example the presentation layer engine may be configured to include additional navigational meta information into messages sent to smart televisions since their user interfaces may be more limited such as to only permitting up down left right and ok user interface buttons compared to the multi touch user interface available on most smartphones and tablet devices.

The presentation layer engine may support plug ins that extend the presentation layer functionality with client device type specific functionality which may be added at run time without shutting down the system. In the example illustrated in the presentation layer engine includes two device type extensions . Each device type extension component may be a plug in that extends the functionality of the presentation layer engine to include functionality specific to a particular type of user equipment. That is the device type extension may extend the functionality of the presentation layer engine to support a first type of device i.e. type devices and the device type extension component may extend the functionality of the presentation layer engine to support a second type of device i.e. type devices .

The mobile application server MAS in may include or communicate with a subscriber management component a user equipment policy enforcement engine an analytical engine component a decision core engine component a caching engine a notification engine and other similar components. The mobile application server may be software that operates within the telecommunications operator s network and or a cloud computing environment. The mobile application server may be implemented in a standalone server or may be implemented as part of another functional component such as in a policy controller. In an embodiment the mobile application server may be implemented as part of a policy and charging enforcement function component e.g. PCEF illustrated in and . In various embodiments the mobile application server may be a subscriber engagement engine SEE or a customer interaction gateway CIG . The mobile application server may be stateless and or otherwise configured to facilitate horizontal scalability. In an embodiment the mobile application server may be deployed in a cloud computing environment.

The mobile application server may configured to expose a public interface e.g. RESTful SOAP etc. to which clients e.g. device specific software applications installed on user equipment may connect and communicate information. The mobile application server may expose internal interfaces for establishing connections to other components such as policy management systems e.g. PCRF charging systems e.g. OCS OFCS and subscriber repositories e.g. SPR . In various embodiments the mobile application server may expose a Gx interface for communicating with a policy charging rules function e.g. PCRF a Gy interface for communicating with an online charging system e.g. OCS a Gz interface for communicating with an offline charging system e.g. OFCS and or an Sp interface for communicating with a subscriber repository e.g. SPR .

As mentioned above the mobile application server may include a subscriber management component or software module. The subscriber management component may be configured to manage and maintain information relating to the subscribers associated with the user equipment such as device specific settings. Additionally the subscriber management component may be configured to retrieve information from other components within the telecommunications operator s network.

The mobile application server may include a user equipment policy enforcement engine software module configured to convert or compile high level policy requirements into low level policy rules. In an embodiment the user equipment policy enforcement engine may be configured to generate the low level policy rules specific to a particular type of user equipment e.g. Type Type etc. . The low level policy rules may be sent to the user equipment for enforcement by the software client.

The mobile application server may include an analytics engine software module configured to record and provide basic logging and statistical information relating to user equipment accessing the mobile application server . Additionally the analytics engine may be configured to use logging information in conjunction with additional contextual information obtained from other components within the telecommunications operator s network to generate semantically aware information.

The mobile application server may include a decision core engine software module configured to receive multiple inputs from multiple sources and produce a unified output. The inputs may contain stimuli information from the user equipment as well as contextual information obtained from other components within the telecommunications operator s network e.g. user equipment policy enforcement engine etc. . The decision core engine may generate the output to contain resulting data and or calls to other functional components e.g. the notification engine .

The mobile application server may include a caching engine or software module configured to cache information within the mobile application server . The cached information may relate to policy information charging information or any other subscriber or system information. The caching engine may use customized caching algorithms that are application aware so that it may preemptively cache data based on the subscribers past actions their probable future actions and any other relevant contextual information. For example in an embodiment the caching engine may be configured to use different caching algorithms for caching a subscriber s balance based on whether the subscriber s active charging is event based charging or session based charging. The caching engine may also be configured to use traditional generic caching techniques in addition to the techniques discussed above.

The mobile application server may include a notification engine or software module configured to generate and send messages to the user equipment for rendering in a device specific manner. The messages may be generated so that they may be rendered in the user equipment using either a built in operating system of the user equipment or the software client running on the user equipment . The notification engine may be configured to select a notification mechanism on a case by case basis depending on the subscribers preferences and their user equipment types. The notification engine may be configured to generate messages so they are specifically tailored to be presented on the subscriber s user equipment type e.g. Type Type etc. . The notification engine may be configured to generate the messages so that they are consistent with the location of the subscriber e.g. written in a particular language and using relevant currency and currency formats etc. .

In an embodiment the notification engine may be configured to implement notification policies such as policies relating to the frequency at which notifications are to be sent e.g. once per day once per week etc. policies set by telecommunications operators policies set by subscribers etc. In various embodiments the policies for sending notifications implemented by the notification engine may be mandatory policies e.g. required for the system user definable policies and or subscriber configurable policies. In an embodiment the notification engine may receive policies from a policy management system .

In an embodiment the notification engine may be configured to retrieve subscriber information from a subscriber repository. If a subscriber has multiple user equipment devices the notification engine may send notifications to the most appropriate device which may be determined based on information retrieved from the subscriber repository rather than spamming all of the subscriber s devices.

In an embodiment the notification engine may be configured to expose a public application programming interface API to components outside of the mobile application server . The system may be configured such that there is a charge associated with the use of the public API by third parties. The system may also be configured such that policies set by subscribers dictate which third parties may use the public APIs to communicate with specific user equipment .

Notifications sent by the notification engine may include policy information charging information or any information relating to the subscriber e.g. thresholds balances roaming charges etc. . In an embodiment the notification engine may communicate with external resources to receive information relevant to the notifications. In an embodiment the notification engine may be part of a policy charging control system e.g. PCC system illustrated in .

The mobile application server may communicate with a single sign on SSO system component an AAA system component a policy management system component a charging system component and other similar systems such as a billing system an external charging system a profile manager system and or other components of the telecommunications service provider network.

The mobile application server may communicate with the single sign on SSO system component to authenticate subscribers and or user equipment . The single sign on SSO system component may be configured to enable the subscribers associated with the user equipment to automatically identify and authenticate themselves to third party web applications. The single sign on server may also be configured to enable each subscriber to have multiple different identities and to automatically select the correct identity based on the subscriber s preferences.

The mobile application server may communicate with the AAA system component to identify and authenticate user equipment as well as to provide any authorization and access control management functionally required by the communications network or the system .

The mobile application server may communicate with the policy management system component to determine policies regarding usage of the telecommunications operator s network. These policies may be mandated by the telecommunications operator or they may be selected and configured by the subscribers e.g. via the client software on the user equipment . In an embodiment communications between the policy management system component and the mobile application server may be achieved via the Gx interface. In the preferred embodiment of a 3G network the policy management system component may be a policy and charging rules function PCRF component.

The mobile application server may communicate with the charging system component to access and or modify balance information. For example the charging system component may be invoked by the mobile application server e.g. via client software on the user equipment in order to retrieve and or modify subscribers balances such as to increment a subscriber s balance due to the subscriber having purchased more credit or to decrement a subscriber s balance due to the subscriber s purchase of an additional service. In an embodiment communications between the charging system component and the mobile application server may be achieved via the Gy interface. In the embodiment of a 3G network the charging system may be an online charging system OCS .

In an embodiment the mobile application server may be a customer interaction gateway. The customer interaction gateway may optionally be located behind a Firewall and a Network Address Translation NAT device. The customer interaction gateway may interact with the user equipment in order to pass and receive information. The customer interaction gateway may push various types of information to the user equipment such as information relating to rating plans balance information loyalty information subscriber policies and subscriber profile information. The customer interaction gateway may also communicate with the other elements in the operator s core such as the policy management system e.g. PCRF in a 3GPP network a charging rating and balance management system e.g. an OCS or OFCS in a 3GPP network a subscriber repository e.g. an SPR or UDR in a 3GPP architecture or a loyalty management system. The customer interaction gateway may also be configured to perform management operations to filter the information going to from the user equipment . For example if the customer interaction gateway sends a message that enables a subscriber to purchase an additional service such as a bandwidth boost the customer interaction gateway may be configured to block sending messages offering services previously offered to the subscriber e.g. in the past 24 hours .

In an embodiment the mobile application server may be configured so that the interfaces between the mobile application server and user equipment are stateless enabling extremely fast and scalable communications and so that the interfaces between the mobile application server and other components in the telecommunications operator s network e.g. charging system are stateful enabling the components to maintain active sessions for prolonged periods of time .

Briefly the dynamic context router may be an extension of a diameter routing agent DRA defined by the 3GPP standards e.g. provide the functionality attributed to a DRA but configured to perform operations for implementing many features and functions not provided by a DRA. For example the dynamic context router may identify communication partners and or determine resource availability determining the identity and availability of communication partners for an application requesting a communication session make routing and load balancing decisions dynamically based on the context and content of the information being communicated look inside the messages being communicated and make intelligent decisions based on the content of the messages make calls to external systems requesting additional information for a specific message being communicated and many other operations.

Returning to the mobile application server may communicate with the dynamic context router through one or more interfaces which include a single proprietary interface or multiple standardized interfaces. The dynamic context router may interface with multiple policy management systems and multiple charging systems using multiple standardized interfaces . In an embodiment the communication system may include multiple instances of the dynamic context router .

In response to receiving a request message the mobile application server may determine whether the required policy and or charging information is available locally. If the mobile application server determines that the policy information required to fulfill the request message is not available locally the mobile application server may send a request message to the policy management system component requesting the required additional policy information and the policy management system component may send a response message that includes the requested policy information to the mobile application server . Likewise if the mobile application server determines that the charging information required to fulfill the request message is not available locally the mobile application server may send a request message to the charging system component requesting additional charging information and the charging system component may send the mobile application server a response message that includes the requested charging information.

As mentioned above above the mobile application server may have all of the required charging information available locally due to techniques such as caching. If the mobile application server determines that the required policy and or charging information is available locally e.g. via caching or messages in block the mobile application server may use the policy and or charging information to perform business logic operations specific to the request and or user equipment and send the results of the operations and or the requested response to the user equipment . In block the user equipment may analyze the received information and display the results to the subscriber.

The mobile application server may be configured to support a number of different use cases by for example retrieving and analyzing subscriber policy and charging information and sending the results to the user equipment. Use cases may include built in use cases that are ready for immediate consumption by the end user e.g. the network subscriber and definable use cases that may be defined by telecommunications operators as they are needed. A subscriber may customize the use cases by interacting with the mobile application server through a user interaction system e.g. a graphical user interface on the user equipment . Examples of use cases that may be supported by the various embodiments include use cases relating to policy charging harassment prevention subscriber level restrictions service level restrictions account level restrictions roaming controls spending limits notifications roaming services content filtering e.g. parental control to prohibit certain types of content under certain conditions uniform resource locator whitelists uniform resource locator blacklists modem detection e.g. tethering bill shock prevention domestic controls international controls fixed duration service passes periodic passes e.g. day pass week pass etc. single or recurring use controls prepaid subscriber accounts postpaid user accounts bandwidth controls on demand services real time promotions real time discounts network utilization network congestion personalized spending limits notifications rolling spend notifications e.g. 80 100 180 200 etc. thresholds account overview current spending current balances spending per service status of bundles service breakdowns detailed billable records total amounts per classification address book resolution live usage counting automatically started with first data session loyalty rewards current subscription plans alternative subscription plans tiered services based on bandwidth and usage requirements currently installed add ons available add ons fair usage and quota management excesses charges free services etc.

In an embodiment the mobile application server may be configured to communicate with both a policy management system and a charging system in order to automatically extract the use cases with which they have been configured and then self provision itself with the information that supports the above listed use cases. In an embodiment the policy management system and the charging system may be configured to support the exporting of information supporting the above listed use cases in a semantically meaningful way by using a meta data model to describe the policy rules charging rules dictionaries tables counters and or any other required information.

In addition to the user interaction systems illustrated in various embodiments may include other user interaction systems configured to provide users with any of the functionalities associated with one or more of the above mentioned use cases or other functionalities associated with policies and or charging. In such embodiments the user equipment may be configured to access information via the mobile application server and present the information on the user interaction system in an easy to understand format. These embodiments may further include various user interface icons that when touched or actuated cause the device to send various types of information to the mobile application server which may adjust the subscriber s information settings accordingly.

In an embodiment illustrated in the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a loyalty rewards service. In this embodiment the mobile application server may be configured to retrieve information from network components e.g. policy management system and charging system some of which may not be readily accessible to the telecommunication service providers. The user interaction system may be configured to display information for managing loyalty accounts e.g. points services e.g. cashing in points and information. For example the user interaction system may be configured to display existing loyalty reward points entitlements based on current points e.g. flights hotel breaks cinema tickets additional services cash back etc. entitlements based on additional points and other similar information that is accessible through the mobile application server . The user interaction system may display an interface that allows the users to redeem rewards and or donate points or entitlements to other users or a charity e.g. as part of a good corporate citizenship program etc. . The user interaction system may communicate with a loyalty server via the mobile application server to provide subscriber selection information that the loyalty server may act on e.g. to process a transaction using loyalty reward points . The loyalty server may included as part of or may communicate with other loyalty systems e.g. supermarket airline credit card etc. .

In an embodiment illustrated in the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a harassment prevention service. In this embodiment the user interaction system may be configured to prevent harassment on the user equipment by for example enabling users to restrict or block incoming harassment communications from other users. The user interaction system may display an input screen that enables users to input e.g. via selection keyboard input etc. a number they desire to block or restrict. The user interaction system may present an input screen that enables users to input numbers wildcards and or other information for identifying a group or category of phone numbers e.g. any number that starts with 1800 all unidentified numbers any number not in a specified contacts list etc. that are to be blocked or restricted e.g. allow calls from subscriber A but not SMSs from subscriber A . The user interaction system may be configured so that numbers may be added via selection from an SMS inbox or a list of recent calls which may be stored on a device memory or on a server accessible to the mobile application server . In an embodiment the user interaction system may be configured to identify various communication details e.g. time of call duration of call caller s number content of the communication etc. and store the identified details separately in a protected memory of the user equipment or on a server memory accessible to the mobile application server e.g. a server within the core network for safekeeping in case such details are needed e.g. as evidence for legal proceedings in the future.

In an embodiment illustrated in the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a parental group controls service. In this embodiment the user interaction system may be configured to enable users to set and manage parental and or group controls for selected user equipment or a group of user equipment . For example the user interaction system may be configured to display an input screen that enables users to input information for grouping users into a category e.g. family co workers employees business contacts users subscribing to a common service plan etc. . The user interaction system may present users with options for sharing a common balance e.g. 400 texts per month for all of the phones grouped into the family category reallocating balances e.g. for users subscribing to a common service plan split billing e.g. into a personal balance and a corporate balance and other similar options for accessing and or modifying information relating to parental or group controls via the mobile application server . The user interaction system may also enable users to restrict access to information or services e.g. block streaming videos on employee phones during work hours specify which services are allowed per account e.g. charges for data consumed using YouTube are not to be charged to the corporate balance filter content e.g. block text messages that include pictures or a category of pictures establish white and black lists and perform other similar operations for restricting access to information or services. The user interaction system may present users with options for restricting communications between certain group members e.g. coworker A may not send texts to coworker B during work hours over which the subscriber has managerial control of subscriber accounts. The user interaction system may enable a subscriber to redirect content e.g. SMSs emails that include profanity etc. sent to a first phone e.g. son s phone to a second phone e.g. dad s phone or an external server or website. The user interaction system may enable a subscriber of the second phone e.g. dad s phone to receive and approve redirected content in which case the content may be delivered to the first phone via the mobile application server .

In an embodiment illustrated in the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a live usage service that enables users to monitor and manage live usage of telecommunication and or IP services. The user interaction system may display one or more subscriber configurable live counters e.g. counters for bandwidth network speed consumption costs spend velocity etc. which may include controls that enable users to start stop pause and reset the live counters. The user interaction system may display detailed billable records and or enable users to tag costs. For example the user interaction system may display an input screen that enables users to tag a specific telephone call as work and communicate with the mobile application server to transfer costs or cost information associated with the identified call to a different account or billing category. The user interaction system may retrieve via the mobile application server and display a Top 10 most expensive list identifying the ten most expensive calls or services consumed over a subscriber selectable period e.g. day month year etc. .

In an embodiment illustrated in the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a predicted usage service in which future usage and costs may be predicted and displayed on an electronic display of the user equipment . The user interaction system may compute e.g. via client software of the user equipment or the mobile application server predicted usage and or cost information based on current and or past usage information. The displayed information may be modeled on usage velocity and or acceleration and the time periods associated with the displayed information may be subscriber selectable and or configurable e.g. per second minute day week month year billing period etc. . Current past and predicted future usage and cost information may be retrieved by the user equipment from the mobile application server .

In an embodiment illustrated in the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a threshold notification service. In this embodiment the user interaction system may be configured to display usage threshold information and notify the users when the thresholds are breached. The user interaction system may display an input screen that enables users to set thresholds and communicate with the mobile application server to set the thresholds and or request to receive notifications from the notification server when a set threshold is crossed. The threshold information may relate to mandatory thresholds e.g. thresholds set by the network operator or arbitrary thresholds set or personalized by a subscriber. Received notifications may be added to a calendar application accessible to the user equipment e.g. via the user equipment software or the mobile application server . Thresholds set by the mobile application server may trigger new policies to be enforced in a policy management system . The notifications and thresholds may be based on contextual information e.g. a subscriber s daily thresholds may be significantly lower if the subscriber is roaming .

In an embodiment illustrated in the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a connectivity pass service that enables users to purchase connectivity services as they are required without establishing a long term relationship with the network operator which may be achieved by the user equipment connecting to the telecommunications network through the mobile application server . The mobile application server may be configured to enable third party providers to provide access to sponsored content for a reduced fee or for free. For example a company e.g. Apple may register with the mobile application server to enable selected user equipment to access a site or service e.g. Apple App Store through the mobile application server at no cost to the subscriber. The user interaction system may display an input screen that enables users to purchase via the mobile application server a service or connectivity that most suits the user s needs e.g. voice only SMS Internet etc. . The user interaction system may display an input screen that enables users to pay for the connectivity directly using a credit card. Users may be presented with the option of purchasing connectivity passes having various predetermined durations e.g. 24 hour pass 7 days pass 1 month pass etc. . The user interaction system may display an input screen that enables a user who is a pre paid customer to top up increase his her balance or time on the connectivity pass using his her credit card or an external system e.g. an online baking portal . The user interaction system may add details of the connectivity pass e.g. start date end date etc. to a user calendar.

In an embodiment illustrated in the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a service pass purchase functionality that enables users to buy additional services. The user interaction system may display currently installed service passes available service passes and self provision service passes. The mobile application server may send the user interaction system targeted service passes which may be targeted to the subscriber based on his her previous or current actions and or based on contextual information. For example a subscriber having exceeded a 90 threshold for a service may be offered a service pass that doubles the previous allowance for that service. As another example a subscriber who is roaming may be offered a roaming related service pass. As yet another example the services may be targeted to a subscriber based on similar groups or categories of users e.g. same age gender monthly spending habits services etc. purchasing the same service passes. The user interaction system may add details of the service pass e.g. start date end date etc. to a user calendar.

In an embodiment the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a quality of service QoS testing service or capability that enables subscribers to self test a current level of quality of service on their user equipment. The user interaction system may be configured to display an input screen displaying a Test QoS Now button or icon that when touched or actuated causes the user equipment to send various types of information to the mobile application server which may measure various QoS parameters e.g. uplink downlink bandwidth jitter etc. and report the measured information back to the user equipment. The mobile application server may instruct the policy management system to temporarily block all other traffic to ensure an accurate test. The mobile application server may instruct the charging system to zero rate the test traffic. The mobile application server may generate data and send the generated data to the client software or user equipment. Likewise the client software or user equipment may also generate data and send the generated data to the mobile application server to disable all other services and cause all of the data to be created and terminated within the same network thereby improving the accuracy of the test unlike Internet based tests that are dependent on other networks . The mobile application server may send the results of the test to the user equipment which may receive and store the test results compare the received test results with previous test results and or expected results. The user interaction system may display the test results on an electronic display of the user equipment.

In an embodiment the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a dynamic pricing service or functionality that enables the network operator to vary the pricing of services based on network activity. The mobile application server may generate and send the user interaction system targeted dynamically priced offers in the form of service passes and or notifications e.g. via the notification engine and the user interaction system may notify the subscriber of the availability of a dynamic pricing offer. The mobile application server may generate the targeted dynamically priced offers based on the subscriber s preferences which may be specified via the user interaction system e.g. via selection of an I always want to be notified of dynamic pricing offers option . The mobile application server may be configured to increase pricing during times of high volume traffic or network congestion to discourage usage. The mobile application server may also be configured to generate dynamically priced offers to discourage usage. For example the mobile application server may access the policy management system to detect that a subscriber is trying to access a service e.g. video on demand service during peak hours and generate a dynamically priced offer that includes a free hour of access if the subscriber delays accessing the service until after peak hours. The mobile application server may also generate dynamically priced offers based on perishable services and or underutilized resources. For example the mobile application server may generate a dynamically priced offer that allows a subscriber to access a service e.g. video on demand service for a fraction of the normal price if he she does so during off peak hours in certain geographical areas during a particular time of day week etc.

In an embodiment illustrated in the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a personalized service plan option that enables a subscriber to determine how the monthly subscription will be divided between different services. The user interaction system may display details of a subscriber s current plan and enable the subscriber to tailor the allocation between services e.g. voice SMS Internet etc. . The user interaction system may further enable the subscriber to tailor the allocation between application level and or Internet services such as email web browsing video on demand etc. The user interaction system may enable the subscriber to change the allocation at any time during the month after viewing his her live usage information. The user interaction system may send information relating to the subscriber s selections and or allocations to the mobile application server for implementation.

In an embodiment the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a context based promotion service that enables a subscriber to receive promotions based on a context relating to the subscriber. The mobile application server may enable third parties to submit context based promotions for use with a network operator service provider. The context based promotions may relate to a location e.g. enter a promotional code at the airport to get 5 free SMS messages at your destination scan a barcode on the way into a concert to get 10 free photo uploads etc. . The mobile application server may also enable network operators service providers to submit context based promotions for use with a third party e.g. eTicket that enables free entry to a museum etc. .

In an embodiment the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a live advice of charge service that enables a subscriber to determine the charge associated with a specific service under specific circumstances before he she consumes the service. The user interaction system may display an input screen that enables users to enter what if scenarios e.g. How much will it cost me if I make a 10 minute call to a Canadian landline right now How much will it cost me if I watch a 90 minute film online now etc. . The user interaction system may send information relating to the subscriber s selections and or allocations to the mobile application server for analysis and display the results of the analysis on an electronic display of the user equipment. The user interaction system may enable users to enter what if scenarios that account for context time of day location roaming or not network access type etc.

In an embodiment illustrated in the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a subscription optimization service that enables the mobile application server server to access information relating to a subscriber s current and past usage and determine whether the subscriber is on the most cost effective plan. The mobile application server may obtain such information from for example the charging system . The user interaction system may display an input screen that enables users to specify the historic time period to examine so as to only consider typical usage which may be specified in days weeks months etc. The mobile application server may analyze how much the subscriber would have saved if he she had changed his her subscription at some point in the past and send the computed information to the user equipment to be displayed. The mobile application server may perform this analysis itself and notify users if they should consider changing subscription. The user interaction system may display an input screen that enables users to enter what if scenarios e.g. what is the most cost effective subscription if I increase my data downloads to 10 GB per month and the inputted information may be sent to the mobile application server for processing analysis.

In an embodiment the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a personalized news service that enables network operators service providers to send personalized news to the user equipment. The mobile application server may be configured to enable network providers to specify a news item or a category of news items that are to be sent to the user equipment. The registered news items may relate to new services that might be of interest to the subscriber sponsorship of events that are likely to be of interest to the subscriber or news not related to the network operator. The mobile application server may be configured to locate and send the registered news items to selected user equipment. The user equipment may receive and display the news item on an electronic display via the user interaction system.

In an embodiment the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a subscriber survey functionality that enables the network operator to push surveys to the subscriber. The mobile application server may be configured to collect or generate surveys and or enable third parties to register surveys that are to be sent to the user equipment. Surveys may be a general for which the subscriber was chosen randomly e.g. which of the following five services would you most like us to introduce next or directly related to an action of the subscriber e.g. we noticed that you have made 4 calls to the same number in the last 60 seconds. What was the problem a I could not hear the other person b the other person could not hear me etc. . The user interaction system may be configured to display rewards offered for completing a subscriber survey.

In an embodiment the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a customer support service that enables users to manage support tickets on the user equipment. Support ticket management may include creating a ticket monitoring the status of a ticket updating a ticket requesting a call from a representative of the network operator etc.

In an embodiment illustrated in the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support an application based usage information service that enables users to view usage information for each application or service. The user interaction system may display an input screen that enables users to select a time period for the usage information e.g. per minute hour day week month billing period etc. . The displayed usage information may include usage caused by operating system and or application updates. The application detection may be done on the user equipment .

In an embodiment illustrated in the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support an application based policy service that enables users to set policies for each application. The policies may relate to thresholds and notifications provide the ability to play pause and stop applications may relate to the access network type may provide the ability to apply thresholds and notifications etc. The user interaction system may display an input screen that enables users to select a time period in which the policies are to be enforced. The user interaction system may display visual indicators to indicate the percentage of a quota that has been consumed e.g. an empty to full bucket green to red color change etc. . Some policies may be mandatory and set by the network operator others may be subscriber specified policies.

In an embodiment the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support an application based charging service that enables users to view charging information for each application. The user interaction system may display charging information retrieved via the mobile application server for each application.

In an embodiment illustrated in the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support an access network aware policies service that enables a client application to apply different policies to the user equipment depending on the type of access network e.g. 3G 4G WiFi etc. . The mobile application server may communicate with a policy management system in order to obtain these policies. Policies may be specified in terms of high level goals e.g. I want the cheapest service I want the best service I want the most secure service etc. . Policies may also be specified in terms of the access network type or in terms of the services.

In an embodiment the user interaction system and the mobile application server may be configured to support a network wide aggregation functionality that enables a network operator to determine the effects of specific actions on groups of users. For example the mobile application server may be configured to compute costs associated with a group of users receiving the latest update to their user equipment operating systems and send such information to the network operator and or user equipment. An action may be a system wide event and the groups may be chosen randomly.

In various embodiments the mobile application server may enable users to directly interact with their live charging information within a telecommunications network. The mobile application server may receive a charging request from user equipment identify a relevant charging system and send a charging request to the identified charging system. The charging system may receive and process the charging request and send the results of the processing back to the mobile application server . The mobile application server may receive a response from the charging system process the received response and send the results of the processing to the user equipment . The charging request may be generated on an application running on the user equipment and may relate to all charging information including charging information associated with a specific subscriber charging information associated with a subscriber defined counter charging information associated with a specific service for a specific subscriber charging information relating to services that are not telecommunications related charging information associated with specific devices belonging to a specific subscriber. The charging requests may be requests to view charging information increment a charging balance decrement a charging balance or modify charging information. Charging requests may relate to balance or spending rate thresholds being set.

The mobile application server may be configured to send notifications when charging thresholds are breached. The mobile application server may identify a relevant charging system based on information from a subscriber repository availability and or redundancy. The charging system may be one of an online charging system OCS or an offline charging system OFCS as defined by 3GPP.

The mobile application server may be configured to predict future charging spending balances and rates based on current spending amounts and rates. This may be achieved on an aggregate basis or on a per service basis. Charging requests may enable a subscriber to obtain network connectivity without having a prior commercial relationship additional telecommunications services personalized subscription plans non telecommunications services e.g. mCommerce etc. .

The mobile application server may be configured to enable the telecommunications services to be priced and purchased dynamically allow for under utilization and perishable services and allow for over utilization e.g. congestion .

The mobile application server may be configured to provide the subscriber with advice of charge information. The mobile application server may provide the subscriber with the optimal subscription plan and additional services based on the subscriber s previous usage and spending. The charging information may relate to other interdependent information such as loyalty points.

The mobile application server may be configured to operate in real time support multiple client types including web application servers provide functionality specific to a particular type of user equipment and support an extremely high number of transactions.

The mobile application server may include published integration points that offer a very low barrier to integration. These published integration points may use simple and widely adopted protocols and formats such as SOAP HTTP and JSON. The system may enable user equipment to obtain information from the mobile application server either via using a pull model in which the information is requested by the user equipment or via a push model in which the mobile application server pushes the information to the user equipment . The information may be obtained on demand or preemptively during periods of inactivity of the user equipment or of the telecommunications operator s network .

The mobile application server may simplify the integration of client software on user equipment by hiding stateful information. The mobile application server may include security management functionality that protects the telecommunications operator s infrastructure from harmful malicious or fraudulent activity. The mobile application server security features may include generic security features such as Network Address Translation NAT and or application and context specific security features e.g. application level firewalls reverse proxy servers etc. . The mobile application server may provide front end load balancing and routing for the client software on the user equipment . The mobile application server may be deployed into a cloud environment. The mobile application server may provide back end load balancing and routing for the telecommunications operator s business and operating systems infrastructure. The mobile application server may use caching to improve performance. The caching may be based on customized caching algorithms that are application and context aware. The improved performance due to caching may be used to reduce the load on the telecommunications operator s business and operating systems back end infrastructure.

The mobile application server may include a decision core engine configured to provide run time adaptability and extensibility by supporting the addition removal and modification of business logic in real time. These changes in business logic may occur at run time while the mobile application server is online and in service.

The mobile application server may be configured to be context aware. The contextual awareness may relate to users and their usage traffic and spending patterns. The contextual awareness may relate to historical information current information and future predictive information.

The mobile application server may generate contextual information via an analytics engine. The mobile application server may use industry standard practices to improve reliability and performance. This may include the use of redundancy clustering and caching. The mobile application server may use built in standards based identification and authentication modules such as RFC4005 HSS Diameter modules and RADIUS AAA modules.

The mobile application server may contain built in security features ensure data remains confidential ensure access control models are implemented and or ensure users cannot access confidential information within the telecommunications operator s network. This confidential information may include private metadata relating to the use cases.

The mobile application server may include functionality to immediately disable client software running on user equipment that has been compromised or stolen. The mobile application server may use behavioral heuristics to determine if user equipment has been compromised or stolen. The mobile application server may be configured with the identities of user equipment that have been compromised or stolen. This configuration may be either set by the users and or the telecommunications operator.

The mobile application server may include built in support for charging functionality. This charging functionality may be based on standard based charging protocols such as RFC3588 RFC4006 Rf Ro RADIUS Accounting Diameter Accounting and CAMEL.

The mobile application server may be tightly integrated with a policy management system e.g. a PCRF . The mobile application server may be tightly integrated with a charging system e.g. an OCS . The mobile application server may be tightly integrated with a dynamic context router. The dynamic context router may include a diameter routing agent DRA .

The mobile application server may be integrated with standard user equipment applications. The mobile application server may be integrated with the address book calendar etc. The mobile application server may allow the easy integration of information from the mobile application server with other sources. These other sources could include Web 2.0 sources such as Facebook Twitter Skype etc. These other sources may include policy and charging information.

The mobile application server may use resource utilization information from the policy management system in conjunction with rating information from the charging system in order to advertise dynamically priced offers and perishable services to the subscriber via the software client. Further the subscriber may purchase these dynamically priced offers and perishable services.

In an embodiment the mobile application server may enable users to create and adjust personalized subscription plans. These subscription plans may be based on changing individual service usage allowances or individual constituent costs while maintaining a constant subscription cost. These subscriptions may be based on contextual information such as receiving discounted rates for usage within a subscriber defined geographic area. The mobile application server may provide topology hiding to the user equipment . This may prevent the discovery of network addresses.

The mobile application server may provide QoS management. This QoS management may be controlled by the subscriber. This QoS management may be set mandatorily by the telecommunications operator.

The mobile application server may support the promotion and distribution of offers and servers targeted directly at users who are roaming. The mobile application server may enable users to manage additional devices associated with the telecommunications operator. These additional devices may include broadband routers and Femtocells.

The mobile application server may enable users to apply discount and promotional offers that are available in their environs. These offers may be in the form of unique numbers that are manually input into the user equipment by the subscriber. These offers may be in the form of 1D or 2D barcodes that are captured using a camera of the user equipment . These offers may be in the form of signals that are broadcast using a wireless technology such as Near Field Communications NFC Bluetooth or WiFi.

The mobile application server may provide the subscriber with contextual information. This contextual information may be displayed on user equipment using graphics or text. This contextual information may also be rendered as audio. This contextual information may relate to location information such as locating the nearest phone credit top up location or Wi Fi hotspot.

The mobile application server may enable users to obtain real time Advice of Charge AoC information. Users may set thresholds and alerts based on this AoC information. The mobile application server may make recommendations to users regarding their charges. These recommendations may be based on changing the subscription plan. These recommendations may be based on adding service bundles.

The various embodiments may be implemented on any of a variety of computing devices including commercially available servers such as the server illustrated in . Such a server typically includes a processor coupled to volatile memory and a large capacity nonvolatile memory such as a disk drive . The server may also include a floppy disc drive compact disc CD or DVD disc drive coupled to the processor . The server may also include network access ports coupled to the processor for establishing data connections with a network such as a local area network coupled to other operator network computers and servers.

The processors may be any programmable microprocessor microcomputer or multiple processor chip or chips that can be configured by software instructions applications to perform a variety of functions including the functions of the various embodiments described below. Multiple processors may be provided such as one processor dedicated to wireless communication functions and one processor dedicated to running other applications. Typically software applications may be stored in the internal memory before they are accessed and loaded into the processor . The processor may include internal memory sufficient to store the application software instructions.

The foregoing method descriptions and the process flow diagrams are provided merely as illustrative examples and are not intended to require or imply that the steps of the various embodiments must be performed in the order presented. As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the order of steps in the foregoing embodiments may be performed in any order. Words such as thereafter then next etc. Are not intended to limit the order of the steps these words are simply used to guide the reader through the description of the methods. Further any reference to claim elements in the singular for example using the articles a an or the is not to be construed as limiting the element to the singular.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The hardware used to implement the various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Alternatively some steps or methods may be performed by circuitry that is specific to a given function.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. The steps of a method or algorithm disclosed herein may be embodied in a processor executable software module executed which may reside on a tangible non transitory computer readable medium or processor readable medium. Non transitory computer readable and processor readable media may be any available media that may be accessed by a computer or processor. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media may comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that may be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media. Additionally the operations of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a non transitory processor readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

The preceding description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

