---

title: Methods and systems for top-up
abstract: Methods and systems for top-up are provided. A representative top-up system includes an interface module that receives and transmits a phone number associated with a phone user's account; and a top-up gateway that receives and transmits the phone number from the interface module and requests for a telephone service company associated with the phone number to a home location register (HLR) look up service. The top-up gateway tops up phone minutes and/or balance of money of the phone user's account associated with the phone number based on the phone number, and requested telephone service company.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09432525&OS=09432525&RS=09432525
owner: 
number: 09432525
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20140807
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR TOP UP having Ser. No. 61 863 407 filed on Aug. 7 2013 all of which are entirely incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure is related to top up systems e.g. mobile real time replenishment RTR systems . This top up system uses computing logics programmed in a computing system to top up recharge add and or transfer telephone minutes or money to a phone user account.

Top up systems for phone services having a portal web interface exist today in commerce. Phone users typically provide several information about a phone number in order to top up recharge add and or transfer telephone minutes or money. The information includes a telephone number the country that the telephone number is used in and the mobile telephone service company that the telephone number is associated with.

Desirable in the art is an improved top up system for phone services that would improve upon the conventional top up system.

Methods and systems for top up are provided. A representative top up system includes an interface module that receives and transmits a phone number associated with a phone user s account and a top up gateway that receives and transmits the phone number from the interface module and requests for a telephone service company associated with the phone number to a home location register HLR look up service. The top up gateway tops up phone minutes and or balance of money of the phone user s account associated with the phone number based on the phone number and requested telephone service company.

Exemplary systems are first discussed with reference to the figures. Although these systems are described in detail they are provided for purposes of illustration only and various modifications are feasible. After the exemplary systems are described examples of flow diagrams of the systems are provided to explain the manner in which a phone user provides the phone number and the improved top up system can determine the other information such as the mobile telephone service company that the telephone number is associated with based on the provided phone number to process the top up recharge addition and or transfer of telephone minutes or money. This makes any phone related transaction easier and more convenient for a user so that the user does not need to input the geographical location e.g. Vietnam Mexico etc. and telephone service company e.g. MobiFone TelCel etc. of the inputted telephone number into the top up system.

Referring to the top up system generally includes at least one top up service premise that can include a top up server at least one telephone service provider premise at least one switch e.g. a competitive local exchange carrier CLEC and a customer distributor retailer premise that can include a top up server a laptop and tablets and portable devices that can connect to the Internet. The premises and the portable devices can be connected to a network such as the Internet telephone network system and cellular network system.

The top up server establishes phone calls based on how many minutes and or how much money a user has in the phone user s account. The top up server includes a top up application that enables a phone user to top up phone minutes and or money on the phone user s account or another phone user s account. The top up application also enables the phone user to transfer phone minutes and money from the phone user s account to another phone user s account. It should be appreciated that although the top up application is shown at the top up server the top up application entirely or partially can be located anywhere in the top up system such as that shown in .

It should also be appreciated that the top up application can facilitate processing a top up and or a money transfer in at least the following systems a top up system using an interactive voice response IVR system and a pin and fixed denomination platform which will be described further in connection to a top up system using a short message system SMS and a pin and fixed denomination platform which will be described further in connection to a top up system using a real time refill RTR and select denomination platform which will be described further in connection to a top up system using an interactive application and open denomination platform which will be described further in connection to and a top up system using a mobile wallet which will be described further in connection to .

At line the top up application communicates with an interactive voice response IVR system to initiate an application programming interface API that facilitates topping up and or transferring phone minutes and or money to a phone user s account. At line the API requests and provides the inputted phone number to a top up gateway to top up and or transfer phone minutes and or money. At lines the top up gateway communicates with a home location register HLR look up service to determine the telephone service company e.g. MobiFone Telcel etc. that provides phone service and or the geographical location e.g. Vietnam Mexico etc. respectively associated with the inputted phone number. A mobile or any telephone service operator can communicated with the top up gateway to determine whether how many minutes and or how much money a user has in the phone user s account. If the user s phone account has minutes and money the mobile operator provides phone service to phone user s telecommunication device e.g. smartphone cellular phone etc. that is registered with the phone number associated with the phone user s account.

The top up gateway verifies whether the phone user s account is a valid phone number having phone minutes and or amount of money that can be top up recharge add and or transfer the phone minutes and or money into the phone user s account. The phone user can also top up recharge add and or transfer the phone minutes and or money from a purchased pin based card into the phone user s account. Responsive to the top up gateway verifying that the phone user s account and or the purchased pin based card having a valid number of phone minutes and or amount of money and obtaining information from the HLR lookup service based on the inputted phone number the top up gateway at lines tops up recharges adds and or transfers the phone minutes and or money to a phone user s account associated with the inputted phone number and stores this information at a database based on the phone number and determined telephone service company.

The top up of phone minutes and or money to the phone user s account can be accomplished by way of credit card transfer of balance from one phone user s account to another phone user s account and pin based calling card among others. The top up gateway provides confirmation of the top up recharge addition and or transfer of the phone minutes and or money to the phone user via the API and block through lines .

Alternatively or additionally the top up application can notify the phone user whether the inputted phone number is new or previously inputted based on the phone user s historical inputted phone numbers. Alternatively or additionally the top up gateway at lines tops up recharges adds and or transfers the phone minutes and or money to a phone user s account associated with the inputted phone number and stores this information at a database based on the phone number determined telephone service company and determined geographical location.

At blocks and the phone user inputs the pin number of the purchased pin based calling card and the recipient s phone number respectively. At block the phone user confirms the inputted information with the IVR system . At block the IVR system receives the submission from the phone user confirms the pin number of the pin based calling card and processes the top up that were previously described in connection to based on the determined telephone service company associated with the recipient s phone number. If the top up process is successful or unsuccessful the IVR system at block can notify the phone user of the successful or unsuccessful top up via an audio message over the telephone and or a SMS message.

Responsive to verifying the pin number to be correct the IVR system request the phone user to input the recipient s phone number with the country code that the phone user wish to top up. At block in the phone user enters the recipient s phone number. At block the IVR system confirms the inputted information with the phone user by playing an audio confirmation message. For example during a telephone IVR session the IVR system can request the user to press the number 1 on his phone responsive to the playback of the recipient s phone number is correct. Responsive to the phone user pressing number 2 on his phone the top up process repeats blocks and .

Responsive to the phone user pressing number 1 on his phone the phone user submits a number of phone minutes or a monetary amount to the IVR system to be topped up at the recipient s phone number. The IVR system processes the top up that were previously described in connection to based on the determined telephone service company associated with the recipient s phone number. If the top up process is successful or unsuccessful the IVR system at block can notify the phone user of the successful or unsuccessful top up via an audio message over the telephone and or a SMS message. If the top up process is successful the IVR system at block can notify the phone user of the successful top up via an audio message over the telephone. At block the IVR system can send a SMS message notifying the phone user of the successful top up.

If the top up process is unsuccessful the IVR system at block can notify the phone user of the unsuccessful top up via an audio message over the telephone and request for re retry of the recipient s phone number or press to connect to a customer service representative for further support. At block the IVR system determines whether the phone user presses or the recipient s phone number. Responsive to the phone user pressing the recipient s phone number the top up process repeats blocks and . Responsive to the phone user pressing on his phone the IVR system connects the phone user to a customer service representative at blocks and .

At block the SMS system can determine whether the top up format is correct or wrong. At block responsive to the SMS system determining that the top up format is wrong the SMS system notifies the user that the SMS format is wrong requests the customer to check the SMS format and try again. At block responsive to determining that the SMS format is correct the SMS system can determine whether the top up transaction was successful or not is correct or wrong. At block responsive to the SMS system determining that the top up transaction failed the SMS system notifies the user that the top up transaction has failed and requests the customer to try again or call customer service for further support such as that shown in block . At block the SMS system processes the top up that were previously described in connection to based on the determined telephone service company associated with the recipient s phone number. Responsive to the SMS system determining that the top up transaction was successful the SMS system notifies the user that the top up transaction was successful such as that shown in block .

At block the terminal can prompt the phone user to input a recipient s phone number with a country code in accordance to an E.164 format. At block the terminal can display a confirmation screen displaying the selected denomination and the inputted recipient s phone number so that the phone user can confirm that the information is correct. At block responsive to the phone user confirming that the information is correct the terminal receives the submission from the phone user and processes the top up that were previously described in connection to based on the determined telephone service company associated with the recipient s phone number. If the top up process is successful or unsuccessful the terminal at block can notify the phone user of the successful or unsuccessful top up via a screen message on the terminal and or a SMS message.

The phone user at block can select any denomination e.g. 1 500 that the phone user wishes to top up. The interactive application at block can display a confirmation screen displaying the selected denomination and the inputted recipient s phone number so that the phone user can confirm that the information is correct. Responsive to the phone user confirming that the information is correct the interactive application at block receives the submission from the phone user and processes the top up that were previously described in connection to based on the determined telephone service company associated with the recipient s phone number. If the top up process is successful or unsuccessful the interactive application at block can notify the phone user of the successful or unsuccessful top up via a screen message on the interactive application and or a SMS message.

Responsive to the phone user selecting the option of recharging a recipient s phone number the IVR system at blocks and requests the phone user to enter the recipient s phone number and chooses a denomination that the phone user wishes to top up. The IVR system at block confirms with the phone user the submitted information associated with the top up transaction. Responsive to the phone user confirming that the information is correct the IVR system at block receives the submission from the phone user and processes the top up that were previously described in connection to based on the determined telephone service company associated with the recipient s phone number. If the top up transaction is successful or unsuccessful the IVR system at block can notify the phone user of the successful or unsuccessful top up via an audio message and or a SMS message. The IVR system at can provide the remaining balance on the mobile wallet.

Responsive to the IVR system confirming that the pin number is correct the IVR system at block provides a balance amount on the mobile wallet and at block requests for transaction commands such as enter a destination phone number press 1 to recharge a recipient s phone number press 2 to recharge the phone user s mobile wallet or press 0 for customer service. At block the IVR system determines the selected transaction commands. Responsive to selecting customer service the IVR system at blocks and connects the phone user to a customer service representative. Responsive to selecting the option of calling a phone number the phone user at block inputs a destination phone number to the IVR system. At block the IVR system verifies whether the phone number is valid. Responsive to verifying that the phone number is invalid the IVR system notifies the phone user of the invalid destination phone number at block and repeats blocks and . Responsive to verifying that the phone number is valid the IVR system provides the number of phone minutes remaining on the ANI account and connects the phone user to the destination phone number at blocks and .

Responsive to the phone user selecting the option of recharging a recipient s phone number the IVR system at block requests the phone user to enter the recipient s phone number. At block the phone user inputs the recipient s phone number into the IVR system. At block the IVR system confirms the inputted recipient s phone number with the phone user such as that shown in blocks and . At block the phone user submits a denomination that the phone user wishes to top up. At block the IVR system receives the submission from the phone user and processes the top up that were previously described in connection to based on the determined telephone service company associated with the recipient s phone number. If the top up transaction is successful the IVR system at block can notify the phone user of the successful top up via an audio message and at block send a SMS successful confirmation message. At block the IVR system can provide the remaining balance on the mobile wallet and repeat the process at block . If the top up transaction is unsuccessful the IVR system at blocks and can notify the phone user of the unsuccessful top up via an audio message request the phone user to enter the recipient s phone number and repeat blocks and .

The one or more user interface devices comprise those components with which the user e.g. administrator can interact with the generic computer . Where the generic computer comprises a server computer or similar device these components can comprise those typically used in conjunction with a PC such as a keyboard mouse keypad and terminal.

The one or more I O devices comprise components used to facilitate connection of the generic computer to other devices and therefore for instance comprise one or more serial parallel small system interface SCSI universal serial bus USB or IEEE 1394 e.g. Firewire connection elements. The networking devices comprise the various components used to transmit and or receive data over networks where provided. By way of example the networking devices include a device that can communicate both inputs and outputs for instance a modulator demodulator e.g. modem a radio frequency RF or infrared IR transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router as well as a network card etc.

The memory normally comprises various programs in software and or firmware including an operating system O S . The O S controls the execution of programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services. The memory further includes a calling setup application that facilitates setting up an assigned number to call a calling number. This description has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to the precise forms disclosed. Obvious modifications or variations are possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiments discussed however were chosen to illustrate the principles of the disclosure and its practical application. The disclosure is thus intended to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to use the disclosure in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. All such modifications and variation are within the scope of this disclosure as determined by the appended claims when interpreted in accordance with the breadth to which they are fairly and legally entitled.

