---

title: Systems and methods for modulation and coding scheme selection and configuration
abstract: Methods, systems, and devices for modulation and coding scheme selection and configuration. A mobile communication device includes a table component, a table selection component, and a communication component. The table component is configured to maintain two or more tables each having entries for a plurality of available modulation schemes. The two or more tables include a default table and a secondary table. The default table and the secondary table have a matching number of entries, and the secondary table includes an entry corresponding to a 256-QAM scheme. The table selection component is configured to select a selected table from one of the default table and the secondary table. The communication component is configured to receive and process a communication from a base station based on a modulation and coding scheme of the selected table.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09467269&OS=09467269&RS=09467269
owner: INTEL IP CORPORATION
number: 09467269
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140925
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 924 194 filed on Jan. 6 2014 which is hereby incorporated by reference its entirety. This application also claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 943 973 filed on Feb. 24 2014 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 990 628 filed on May 8 2014.

The present disclosure relates to selecting and configuring a modulation and coding scheme for communication on a mobile network.

A detailed description of systems and methods consistent with embodiments of the present disclosure is provided below. While several embodiments are described it should be understood that this disclosure is not limited to any one embodiment but instead encompasses numerous alternatives modifications and equivalents. In addition while numerous specific details are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments disclosed herein some embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these details. Moreover for the purpose of clarity certain technical material that is known in the related art has not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the disclosure.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station or a transceiver node and a wireless device e.g. a mobile communication device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE Rel. 8 9 and 10 the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 2012 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In a 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE system the node may be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicate with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission may be a communication from the node e.g. eNB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission may be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node or macro cell may provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell may be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets may be used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets may include a layer of planned high power macro nodes macro eNBs or macro cells overlaid with layers of lower power nodes small cells small eNBs micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that may be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes may generally be referred to as small cells small nodes or low power nodes.

In addition to increasing coverage and or load capacity the proximity to a node and favorable geometry experienced by UEs in some small cell deployments provides the possibility for using higher order modulation schemes for the downlink transmission. For example current modulation schemes in 3GPP peak at 64 quadrature amplitude modulation QAM while the improved proximity and geometry may allow for 256 QAM. However support of the additional modulation scheme may in some proposals include changes in the downlink control signaling formats for indicating a modulation and coding scheme MCS with 256 QAM as well as a modification in uplink control information UCI signaling formats for reporting a channel quality indicator CQI for a link quality corresponding to 256 QAM. In some cases straightforward extension of the existing signaling by adding additional bits in the corresponding fields of the downlink and uplink control information is not desirable due to additional signaling overhead and potential negative impact on the uplink coverage for some of the uplink control messages e.g. Physical Uplink Control Channel PUCCH .

Currently in accordance with the LTE specification see 3GPP Technical Specification TS 36.213 V11.4.0 2013 10 the modulation is derived at the UE based on a 5 bit field provided by a serving cell in DCI per each transport block using an MCS index parameter I . The UE uses the value Ireceived in the DCI in conjunction with a table coded into the specification specifically Table 7.1.7.1 1 of 3GPP TS 36.213 to determine the modulation order Q and transport block size TBS used in the physical downlink shared channel PDSCH .

The channel quality indicator CQI contains information sent from a UE to the eNB i.e. in the UL to indicate the most suitable MCS value for the downlink transmissions. The CQI is a 4 bit value and is based on the observed signal to interference plus noise ratio SINR at the UE on each codeword. The CQI estimation takes into account the UE capability such as the number of antennas and the type of receiver used for detection. The CQI values are used by the eNB for MCS selection link adaptation for the downlink transmission. The CQI definition and interpretations of CQI indices are given in Table 7.2.3 1 of 3GPP TS 36.213. Based on an unrestricted observation interval in time and frequency the UE derives for each CQI value reported in uplink subframe n the highest CQI index between 1 and 15 in Table 7.2.3 1 which satisfies a channel quality condition or CQI index if CQI index does not satisfy the condition. Specifically the channel quality condition is that a single PDSCH transport block with a combination of modulation scheme and transport block size corresponding to the CQI index and occupying a group of downlink physical resource blocks termed the CSI reference resource could be received with a transport block error probability not exceeding 0.1.

Based on the foregoing and in light of the present disclosure it can be seen that straightforward extension of the existing MCS and CQI tables with additional entries corresponding to 256 QAM would require an additional bit for each of the Iand CQI parameters. However this change would necessitate changes in the downlink and uplink control signaling formats. In the present disclosure we propose various methods for configuring 256 QAM signaling in the downlink and uplink control channels without requiring changes to the uplink and downlink control signaling formats. In one embodiment the sizes of the tables used for indicating Iand CQI are maintained so that there is no need to define new DCI format and CQI reporting.

In one embodiment a UE includes a table component a table selection component and a communication component. The table component is configured to maintain two or more tables each having entries for a plurality of available modulation schemes. The two or more tables include a default table and a secondary table. The default table and the secondary table have a matching number of entries and the secondary table includes an entry corresponding to a 256 QAM scheme. The table selection component is configured to select a selected table from one of the default table and the secondary table. The communication component is configured to receive and process a communication from an eNB based on a modulation and coding scheme of the selected table. In some embodiments the present disclosure allows a UE or an eNB to support an entire range of modulation schemes from QPSK to 256 QAM without any changes in the signaling format for downlink and uplink control channels i.e. no new DCI and UCI formats .

As used herein the terms node and cell are both intended to be synonymous and refer to a wireless transmission point operable to communicate with multiple user equipment such as an eNB a low power node or other base station.

While three small cells are illustrated within the macro cell coverage area of the eNB a macro cell s coverage area may include hundreds of small nodes. For example small nodes configured as HeNBs may be located in hundreds of homes that are within the coverage area of a single macro node. Similarly within one RAN there may be a mixture of sparse and dense small cell deployments. In one embodiment one or more of the small cells are deployed independently of a macro node. Similarly one or more of the small cells may be positioned such that there is no overlap with the macro node s coverage area .

According to one embodiment the eNB or other controllers for the macro cell small cells and are configured to vary an MCS used to communicate with the UEs . For example an MCS used to communicate with a specific UE may vary based on a current channel quality. As discussed above due to reduced distances and improved geometry UEs may be capable of communicating using higher order modulation schemes within small cells than within the macro cell. In one embodiment the UE and eNB or other RNC maintain or configure alternate tables for selecting or indicating an MCS. For example the eNB may send a message to a UE configuring a new table to be used in place of a legacy table. The new table may include an MCS that has a higher spectral efficiency than the legacy table. The UE may determine which table to use for sending channel quality indicators and for interpreting an indication of which MCS to use to process received communications. More detailed operation and examples will be discussed in relation to the remaining figures.

The table component is configured to store or maintain a plurality of tables. In one embodiment the table component is configured to maintain tables for selection and indication of modulation schemes coding rates transport block size or the like. In one embodiment the table component maintains two different tables that are used for the same purpose. For example the table component may store a default table and a secondary table which can be used in place of the default table. The default table may correspond to a previous version of a communication standard or to modulation schemes that some UEs that use a mobile network are capable of using. For example multiple types and versions of UEs may be used to access a mobile network and different types and versions may have different peak data rates or modulation order capabilities. In one embodiment in a given subframe on a given cell only one of the tables is used. For example all PDSCH within a given subframe may be interpreted based on the same table.

Each table may include a plurality of entries for different modulation schemes which can be used by a UE or an eNB . In one embodiment the number of entries in each table matches so that the entries can be used in place of each other. In one embodiment the number of entries in the secondary table is less than or equal to the number of entries in the default table. In one embodiment the default table includes schemes that can be used by any attached UE while the secondary table includes higher order modulations or schemes that only certain UEs are capable of utilizing. In one embodiment the secondary table includes a modulation scheme that has a higher order modulation than any of the schemes in the default table. For example the maximum modulation order in the default table may be 64 QAM while the highest order modulation in the secondary table may be 256 QAM.

In one embodiment the table component stores or maintains a modulation and coding scheme index Itable. The Itable may include a table used to select a modulation order and transport block size using I based on an MCS index. One example of an Itable includes the Modulation and TBS index table for PDSCH Table 7.1.7.1 1 defined in 3GPP TS 36.213 which is reproduced below.

In one embodiment Table 1 is used as the default or legacy table while a new table is used as the enhanced or secondary table. Usage of Table 1 may provide backward compatibility with existing UEs and UEs that operate with current standards. In one embodiment a secondary table is used to provide modulation schemes that can be used by new UEs and subsequent releases. In one embodiment the secondary table includes a 256 QAM modulation order Qm 8 . In one embodiment the total number of entries in each of the default table and the secondary table does not exceed 32 to accommodate indication using Iin a 5 bit field.

In one embodiment multiple secondary tables are specified or maintained. For example any one of the secondary tables may be a candidate for the secondary or new table. In one embodiment a radio resource control RRC message from the serving cell indicates which table out of the multiple secondary tables should be used as the secondary table. In one embodiment one of the secondary tables are defined as a default secondary table. The UE may use the default secondary table as the secondary table unless a serving cell or eNB indicates otherwise.

In one embodiment the secondary table includes a table similar to Table 1 with one or more of the entries e.g. rows swapped out for a different configuration. In one embodiment the default table includes a first entry corresponding to a first modulation order and a second entry corresponding to a second modulation order higher than the first modulation order and having the same spectral efficiency. In one embodiment the secondary table includes a 256 QAM scheme in place of one of the first entry and the second entry. By way of example rows corresponding to Ivalues 10 and 17 in Table 1 may be swapped out with 256 QAM modulation orders Qm 8 in the secondary table. Values 10 and 17 may be of interest because they have a same spectral efficiency as Ivalues 9 and 16. Specifically note that in Table 1 two entries with the same spectral efficiency are defined since one performs better than the other depending on frequency time selectivity of the channel. For instance Ivalues 9 and 10 have the same spectral efficiency and Ivalues 16 and 17 have the same spectral efficiency but I 9 performs better than I 10 in a less frequency selective channel while I 10 performs better than I 9 in a more frequency selective channel. However in one embodiment the main target of the secondary table is to serve a UE experiencing a less time frequency selective channel. In this embodiment we can substitute entries for Ivalues 10 and 17 to make more entries available to 256 QAM entries while minimizing the performance impact of having less entries assigned to QPSK 16 QAM and 64 QAM. Table 2 illustrates one embodiment of a secondary Itable.

In one embodiment the default table and the secondary table each include a CQI table. The CQI table may include a table used to indicate a modulation preferred by the UE and a coding rate preferred by the UE based on a CQI index. One example of a CQI table includes Table 7.2.3 1 defined in 3GPP TS 36.213 which is reproduced in Table 3 below.

Any of the examples or principles discussed above in relation to the Itable may be used in relation to the CQI table for channel state information reporting. For example a UE supporting 256 QAM may be configured with two CQI mapping tables where some of the entries in two tables are different and at least one table should include CQI values corresponding to the 256 QAM modulation order. The total number of entries in each of the configured tables may not exceed 16 to accommodate the maximum length of 4 bit CQI report. For a given CQI report only one CQI table is used. In one embodiment a plurality of secondary CQI tables are specified or maintained. Similar to an embodiment with multiple Itables an RRC message may indicate which table out of the multiple secondary CQI tables is used as the secondary table. Furthermore one secondary CQI table can be specified as the default secondary CQI table. The default secondary CQI table may be used unless RRC signaling changes the secondary table to be a different secondary CQI table. One embodiment of a secondary CQI table is shown below in Table 4.

In one embodiment the table component maintains default and secondary tables for both Itables and for CQI tables. For example the table component may store a secondary Itable which may be selectively used in place of a default Itable and may also store a secondary CQI table which may be used in place of a default CQI table.

The table component may store tables that include predefined tables. For example the default table and secondary table may be defined within a corresponding standard such as a release of LTE. The table component may store the tables such that a service cell and UE know which tables are available and can use minimal signaling to configure which table is needed for use. In one embodiment the table component maintains the tables by receiving messaging to configure one or more of the default table and the secondary table. For example the UE or table component may receive a table configuration message from a base station such as a small cell defining at least a portion of the secondary table or the default table. The configuration message may indicate a higher modulation scheme for at least one entry which may allow the UE to communicate using the higher order modulation. In one embodiment the configuration message indicates one or more entries to be changed in the secondary table over the default table. For example the secondary table may be the same as the default table except that some entries in the secondary table are different from corresponding entries in the default table. The table component may maintain the tables by modifying any tables based on the table configuration message.

In one embodiment two Itables are hard coded in the specification where the first table is the same as Table 7.1.7.1 1 of TS 36.213 with QPSK 16 QAM and 64 QAM modulation entries and the second table has one or more entries corresponding to QPSK modulation or other modulations in the first table removed with 256 QAM modulation entries in their place. In another embodiment two Itables are configured by RRC signaling e.g. by using a bitmap where the entries for each table is explicitly configured e.g. each element in a bitmap indicates the activated MCS and TBS for a given entry of a table . In another embodiment two Itables are hard coded in the specification and an eNB can reconfigure at least one of the first and the second Itables through medium access control MAC or RRC signaling if needed.

Similarly two CQI tables may also be hard coded in the specification where the first table is the same as Table 7.1.7.1 1 of TS 36.213 with QPSK 16 QAM and 64 QAM modulation entries and the second table has one or more entries corresponding to QPSK modulation or other modulations in the first table removed with 256 QAM modulation entries in their place. In another embodiment two CQI tables are configured by RRC signaling e.g. by using a bitmap where the entries for each table is explicitly configured e.g. each element in bitmap indicates the activated MCS and TBS for a given table . In another embodiment two CQI tables are hard coded in the specification and an eNB can reconfigure at least one of the first and the second CQI tables through MAC RRC signaling if needed.

The table selection component is configured to select which of the default table and the secondary table to use for a specific communication. For example the table selection component is configured to determine a selected table from the default table and the secondary table. In one embodiment the table selection component selects one of a default Itable and a secondary Itable and the table selection component also selects one of a default CQI table and a secondary CQI table.

In one embodiment the table selection component is configured to select a selected table in response to the UE receiving downlink control information DCI in a physical downlink control channel PDCCH or in enhanced physical downlink control channel EPDCCH communication. For example the table selection component may select one of the default table and the secondary table based on one or more of a number of scheduled layers a radio network temporary identifier RNTI used for scrambling a cyclic redundancy check CRC or an extra bit in the DCI for indicating which table to use. As a specific non limiting example the downlink control information indicates a number of scheduled layers and the selecting the selected table includes selecting based on the number of scheduled layers.

In one embodiment the table selection component is configured to select the table based on the number of scheduled layers. For example the table selection component may determine whether the number of scheduled layers for a communication exceeds a layer threshold. If the number of scheduled layers as indicated by the DCI meets or exceeds the layer threshold the table selection component may select the secondary table. On the other hand if the number of scheduled layers does not meet or exceed the layer threshold the table selection component may select the default table.

In one embodiment DCI based signaling is used for switching between tables where the table is implicitly selected in accordance with the total number of scheduled layers for PDSCH indicated in DCI. For example if a total number of layers is above or less than a certain threshold the secondary table with 256 QAM entries may be used for all transport blocks or codewords . Otherwise the first MCS TBS table without 256 QAM entries may be used for all transport blocks or codewords . The threshold for the total number of layers can be RRC configured or correspond to the maximum number of layers that can be scheduled to a given UE i.e. 256 QAM table is only used when the maximum number of layers is scheduled or table without 256 QAM is not used for single layer transmission. In an example the tables are selected per each codeword in accordance with the number of layers assigned for the transmission of a given codeword. If the total number of layers used for the codeword transmission is above or less than a certain threshold e.g. RRC configured or maximum possible for the UE the secondary table with entries corresponding to 256 QAM modulation is used otherwise the default or legacy table without 256 QAM entries is used. In some cases where the transmission corresponds to a hybrid automatic repeat request HARD retransmission of a transport block the tables used should be the same as in the original transmission regardless of the current total number of layers scheduled for the retransmissions. It should be noted that the present disclosure contemplates embodiments where only one of the default table and secondary table include 256 QAM entries as well as embodiments where both of the default table and secondary table include 256 QAM entries.

In one embodiment the table selection component is configured to select the table based on an RNTI used to scramble a CRC corresponding to received DCI. For example the CRC for a PDCCH EPDCCH corresponding to the DCI may be scrambled using an RNTI so that only UEs that were meant to receive the PDCCH EDPCCH can process the information. In one embodiment the UE can determine which RNTI was used to scramble the CRC after receiving and processing the PDCCH EPDCCH. The table selection component may then select the table based on which RNTI was used. In one embodiment the table selection component is configured to select the secondary table in response to the RNTI comprising a UE specific RNTI e.g. cell RNTI or C RNTI . For example if 256 QAM is configured the UE shall assume 256 QAM only for PDSCH scheduled by C RNTI. In one embodiment if a UE receives DCI scrambled with paging RNTI P RNTI random access RNTI RA RNTI semi persistent scheduling RNTI SPS RNTI or system information RNTI SI RNTI the table selection component may assume default or legacy tables are to be used regardless of 256 QAM configuration. In one embodiment the table selection component is configured to select the secondary table when the RNTI includes a higher order modulation RNTI HOM RNTI . For example the DCI CRC may be scrambled by a new RNTI e.g. a higher order modulation RNTI HMO RNTI . If the HMO RNTI is not used a default legacy table without 256 QAM entries may be used.

In one embodiment the DCI includes an extra bit specifically designated for table selection. For example in addition to a 5 bit Ivalue the DCI may include an additional X bit e.g. 1 bit value for selecting which of the default table and the secondary table to use. If the additional X bit is included in DCI content for UE specific search space USS only it can provide for the handling of reconfiguration. For example common search space CSS for DCI is used for handling reconfiguration while USS for DCI is used for selecting one of legacy and evolved ones. In this case the X bit value in CSS would refer to the default or legacy table. The 1 bit indicator e.g. when X 1 in DCI for USS may represent which table is used. For example a bit value of 0 indicates to use the default table while a bit value of 1 indicates to use the evolved or secondary table or vice versa . One advantage of including an extra bit in DCI allows a UE to utilize full degree of freedom to support 256 QAM by fully utilizing existing MCS bits e.g. 5 bit in USS.

In one embodiment a UE supporting 256 QAM or a UE configured with 256 QAM by higher layer signaling have a default table that does not support 256 QAM and a secondary table that does support 256 QAM. The secondary table may include a number of entries that is greater than the number of entries for a legacy or default table. For example the default table may include a number of entries that only requires use of a 4 bit value to select any entry while the secondary table may include a number of entries that requires more than a 4 bit value. In one embodiment only the default table e.g. with 4 bit value in DCI can be used for scheduling via CSS while the secondary table i.e. evolved enhanced table with X bit value in DCI e.g. X 4 or X 5 can be used only for the scheduling via USS. One advantage of this embodiment is that a UE or eNB can utilize full degree of freedom to support 256 QAM by not having any restriction on the number of bits for an Ior a CQI table for supporting 256 QAM.

In one embodiment the table selection component is configured to select the selected table in response to the UE receiving one or more of an RRC layer message and a MAC layer message indicating the selected table. For example the higher layer message may include an explicit indication regarding which of a default table or a secondary table should be used for PDSCH communications. In one embodiment the RRC layer message may include a value that indicates which table is to be used.

The table selection component may use any of the above methods for Itable selection or CQI table selection. Alternatively or in addition the table selection component may select a CQI table based on a rank indicator RI . For example the UE may determine an RI based on current channel quality for reporting to a serving cell. The UE and or eNB may determine which table to use based on whether the RI is above or less than a certain RI threshold e.g. RRC configured or maximum possible reported RI . For example if the RI meets the threshold a table that has modulation entries corresponding to 256 QAM should be used. Similarly if the RI does not meet the threshold a default or legacy table should be used by the UE for CQI reporting. In one embodiment a default or legacy CQI table is only used if RI 1. In one embodiment the RI threshold is configured via RRC or MAC layer signaling.

In one embodiment after a handoff of a UE i.e. a change of the UE s serving cell from the current serving cell to another cell the default or legacy CQI table is used unless RRC MAC signaling indicates that the second table is used after the handoff.

The communication component is configured to communicate information between the UE and a serving cell. In one embodiment the UE is configured to receive PDCCH EPDCCH and PDSCH communications from an eNB and process and interpret the information for the UE . In one embodiment the communication component receives and processes a PDSCH based on an MCS of a selected table. For example the communication component may receive an Ivalue indicating a specific entry in a table to be used to process a PDSCH component. The communication component may reference the specific entry in the table selected by the table selection component to determine the MCS for the specific PDSCH. The UE may then decode the PDSCH and use or forward the information as needed.

The soft buffer may include memory for storage of received encoded bits. In one embodiment the soft buffer includes a size that is sufficient to handle at least 256 QAM peak data rates. For example LTE uses incremental redundancy HARQ. For example a UE usually stores received coded bits in the soft buffer . During retransmission the UE combines the newly received bits with the previously received and stored bits to improve reliability in the accuracy of the received encoded data. Generally the soft buffer size depends on the peak data rate in that a greater peak data rate generally needs a soft buffer size that is bigger than when a peak data rate is smaller. Thus with introduction of 256 QAM the peak data rate will be increased and the soft buffer size may also need to be increased. Thus the UE may have a soft buffer having a greater size than other legacy UEs e.g. UEs from previous releases of LTE . Thus in one embodiment the soft buffer includes a size that is sufficient to handle at least 256 QAM peak data rates.

The soft buffer size component is configured to determine an amount of the soft buffer that should be used for a specific communication. For example some of the UEs eNBs or small cells may correspond to a previous release such as release 8 10 etc. of LTE. Furthermore if there is a mismatch between the soft buffer size at the eNB where encoded bits are stored in preparation for transmission the UE will not be able to properly decode a packet. Because a UE is currently not able to determine a release of the serving cell the UE may not know what size of soft buffer is used to prepare and transmit the bits. In order to ensure that there is no mismatch the soft buffer size component may determine a size of a soft buffer that should be used for data reception and HARQ. In one embodiment the soft buffer size component may at times utilize a portion of the soft buffer that corresponds to a legacy soft buffer size e.g. a soft buffer size of a previous 3GPP release for backwards compatibility.

In one embodiment the soft buffer size component is configured to use a default soft buffer size until an indication from the eNB or other serving cell indicates a capability corresponding to an increased soft buffer size. For example the soft buffer may have a maximum soft buffer size and the soft buffer size component may use a default soft buffer size that is less than the maximum soft buffer size. In one embodiment if the serving cell configures 256 QAM communication both the serving cell and the UE begins using the maximum soft buffer size. In one embodiment the soft buffer size component determines that an increased soft buffer size can be used in response to the eNB indicating that it is configured for a 3GPP release that supports the increased soft buffer size. This indication may be a direct or an indirect indication of release or soft buffer size. For example if the eNB configures a table that includes a 256 QAM entry as the selected table the UE and eNB may then begin using the increased soft buffer size. Another example indication that the eNB is capable of an increased soft buffer size may include the configuration of a secondary table by RRC an Ivalue that indicates a 256 QAM modulation scheme or the like. In other words although UE has a larger soft buffer size to store the bits it should use a smaller soft buffer corresponding to previous UE categories unless 256 QAM is configured or a serving cell otherwise indicates it is capable of an increased soft buffer size. In one embodiment using a larger soft buffer size if supported both by the UE and eNB can provide increased performance even if lower order modulations are used.

To support 256 QAM a larger soft buffer size needs to be supported by the UE to accommodate increased peak data rate when MCSs with 256 QAM are used or enabled . Currently the supported soft buffer size at the UE is provided by Rel 8 and Rel 10 ueCategory messages ue Category and ue Category v1020 using RRC signaling as defined in 3GPP TS 36.306 and 3GPP TS 36.331. According to one embodiment additional UE categories with increased total number of soft channel bits will be defined for 256 QAM capable UEs . Then a 256 QAM capable UE is required to report a new UE category ue Category v12x on top of Rel 8 10 UE category to support backward compatibility with eNB of the previous releases Rel 8 9 10 11 . According to one embodiment the UE uses the total number of soft channel bits of legacy Rel 8 10 UE categories by default unless special signaling indicating support of 256 QAM tables is provided by the serving eNB . According to one example embodiment 3GPP TS 36.212 of the 3GPP specification may be revised to read as follows 

According to one example embodiment 3GPP TS 36.213 of the 3GPP specification may be revised to read as follows 

The table configuration component is configured to maintain and or configure a plurality of tables for selection and indication of modulation schemes coding rates transport block size or the like. Specifically the table configuration component may store configure or maintain any of the variations on the default and secondary tables discussed above in relation to the table selection component of the UE . For example the table configuration component may store one or more of Table 1 Table 2 Table 3 or Table 4 above. In one embodiment the table configuration component is configured to configure a secondary table. For example the table configuration component may generate and send a table configuration message as discussed above to configure one or more entries of a secondary table. In one embodiment the table configuration component is also configured to determine which of a default table and secondary table should be used. The table configuration component may determine a current selected table based on any of the direct or indirect indications discussed above such as based on one or more of the following RRC messaging an RNTI or number of layers corresponding to DCI an RI received from a UE or any of the other disclosed variations. Any of the variations discussed above in relation to the default table and secondary table configuration of the default table and secondary table and selection of the default table may be performed or determined by the table configuration component on the network side.

The capability component is configured to determine whether a specific UE is capable of a high order modulation scheme e.g. 256 QAM . For example the eNB may be located in a small cell and may be capable of higher order modulation and may be in communication with the UE . In one embodiment the capability component may determine that the UE is capable of the high order modulation scheme based on a 3GPP release version of the UE . For example if the UE has a release version that is capable of 256 QAM the eNB may assume that the UE is capable of 256 QAM and that the UE is capable of maintaining and selecting a default table and a secondary table.

The control component is configured to send control information to a UE to configure a downlink communication. For example the control component may send DCI to the UE in a PDCCH EPDCCH communication. In one embodiment the control information indicates to the UE directly or indirectly which of a default table and a secondary table are to be used for a corresponding PDSCH communication. For example as discussed above in relation to the table selection component of the control information may include information about a number of layers a CRC scrambled by an RNTI or other information that the UE can interpret to determine which table to use for MCS selection or CQI.

In one embodiment the control component sends control information comprising a value such as I indicating the MCS to receive and process the PDSCH communication. For example the Ivalue may indicate which entry of a selected table should be used to decode and process the PDSCH communication. In one embodiment the Ivalue is determined by the MCS selection component which provides the Ivalue to the control component for inclusion in DCI.

The MCS selection component is configured to determine an MCS to be used for a specific communication. In one embodiment the MCS selection component determines the MCS based on information about a channel received from the UE . For example the MCS selection component may receive a CQI from the UE that indicates a recommended modulation and a recommended coding rate. The MCS selection component may use the recommendation from the UE to determine what MCS should be used for a PDSCH. In one embodiment the MCS selection component references a selected CQI table based on the CQI value to determine the UE s recommendation. The MCS selection component may then select an MCS and a corresponding Ivalue for communication to the UE . For example the MCS selection component may select an MCS that does not exceed the CQI recommendation by the UE . The MCS selection component may provide the Ivalue to the control component for communication to the UE .

The eNB may also include a soft buffer size component configured to determine a size of a soft buffer to use when communicating with a specific UE . For example the soft buffer size component of the eNB may operate in the same or a similar manner as the soft buffer size component of the UE . For example the soft buffer size component of the eNB may use a default buffer size until the eNB provides information to the UE that indicates that the eNB has a capability of using an increased soft buffer size.

The method begins and the UE enables 256 QAM at the UE . For example the UE may include a radio hardware and or software that are capable of communicating using a 256 QAM scheme. The UE configures two CQI mapping tables e.g. a default table and a secondary table at the UE . For example the UE may be configured with two CQI mapping tables that are defined within a communication standard or may be configured dynamically based on table configuration messages from an eNB . The UE determines an RI for a communication and selects a CQI mapping table based on the RI. The UE determines a CQI from an entry in the selected CQI mapping table and reports the CQI to a serving cell.

The method begins and the UE is configured for PDSCH reception using 256 QAM. For example the UE may include a radio hardware and or software that are capable of communicating using a 256 QAM scheme. The UE configures two MCS TBS mapping tables e.g. a default table and a secondary table . In one embodiment the UE configures the mapping tables based on messages received from a serving cell or eNB . The UE receives DCI and selects one of the MCS TBS mapping tables based on the DCI. For example the DCI may indicate a number of layers and the UE may select a table based on the number of layers. As another example the DCI may include a CRC scrambled based on an RNTI and the UE may select a table based on the RNTI. The UE determines an MCS to be used for a PDSCH and receives the PDSCH based on the MCS. For example the UE may determine the MCS based on an Ivalue received from a UE in DCI.

The method begins and a table component maintains two or more tables each having entries for a plurality of available modulation schemes. The two or more tables may include a default table and a secondary table. In one embodiment the default table and the secondary table have a matching number of entries. In one embodiment the secondary table comprises an entry corresponding to a 256 QAM scheme.

The table selection component selects a selected table from one of the default table and the secondary table. In one embodiment the table selection component selects a table based on DCI received from a serving cell. The communication component receives and processes a communication from the serving cell based on an MCS of the selected table.

The method begins and a table component stores a first table having entries for a plurality of modulation schemes for communication between the mobile communication device and a base station. The first table may include a default table or a legacy table. The table component receives a table configuration message from a base station such as a small cell. The table configuration message defines at least a portion of a second table. The second table includes an entry for a modulation scheme having a higher order modulation than any of the plurality of modulation schemes of the first table. In one embodiment the second table includes a same number of entries as the first table and is configured for selective use in place of the first table.

A table selection component selects a selected table from one of the first table and the second table. In one embodiment the table selection component selects a table based on DCI received from a serving cell. The communication component receives and processes a communication from the serving cell based on an MCS of the selected table.

The method begins and a table configuration component maintains two or more tables each having entries for a plurality of available modulation schemes. The one or more tables may include a first table and a second table wherein the first table and the second table include a matching number of entries and the second table includes an entry for a high order modulation scheme higher than a highest modulation scheme of the first table. In one embodiment the table configuration component maintains the tables by storing the tables. In one embodiment the table configuration component maintains the tables by sending a table configuration message to a UE to define at least a portion of the two tables.

A capability component determines that a UE is capable of a high order modulation scheme. For example the capability component may determine whether a specific UE is capable of communication using 256 QAM. A control component sends control information to a UE in a PDCCH EPDCCH communication. The control information indicates to the UE which table of the first table and the second table to use for a corresponding PDSCH communication.

Example 1 is a UE that includes a table component a table selection component and a communication component. The table component is configured to maintain two or more tables each having entries for a plurality of available modulation schemes. The two or more tables include a default table and a secondary table which have a matching number of entries. The secondary table includes an entry corresponding to a 256 QAM scheme. The table selection component is configured to select a selected table from one of the default table and the secondary table. The communication component is configured to receive and process a communication from an eNB based on a modulation and coding scheme of the selected table.

In Example 2 the default table and secondary table of Example 1 each include a modulation and coding scheme table used to select a modulation order and transport block size based on a modulation and coding scheme index. The secondary table is for selective use in place of the default table.

In Examples 3 the default table of Example 2 includes a first entry corresponding to a first modulation order and a second entry corresponding to a second modulation order higher than the first modulation order. The first entry and the second entry correspond to coding schemes having the same spectral efficiency and the secondary table includes the entry corresponding to the 256 QAM scheme in place of one of the first entry and the second entry.

In Example 4 the default table and secondary table of any of Examples 1 3 each include a channel quality indicator table used to indicate a modulation and coding rate preferred by the UE based on a channel quality indicator index. The secondary table is for selective use in place of the default table

In Example 5 the default table of any of Examples 1 4 includes a default modulation and coding scheme table and the secondary table includes a secondary modulation and coding scheme table. The table component is further configured to maintain a default channel quality indicator table and a secondary channel quality indicator table. The table selection is optionally further configured to select a plurality of selected tables comprising one of the default modulation and coding scheme table and the secondary modulation and coding scheme table and select one of the default channel quality indicator table and the secondary channel quality indicator table.

In Example 6 the table selection component of any of Examples 1 5 is configured to select the selected table in response to the UE receiving one or more of an RRC layer message or a MAC layer message indicating the selected table.

In Example 7 the table selection component of any of Examples 1 6 is configured to select the selected table in response to the UE receiving downlink control information in a PDCCH or EPDCCH communication.

In Example 8 the UE of any of Examples 1 7 includes a soft buffer having a maximum soft buffer size. The UE further includes a soft buffer size component that is configured to use a default soft buffer size until an indication from the eNB indicates a capability corresponding to the maximum soft buffer size. The default soft buffer size is less than the maximum soft buffer size.

In Example 9 the soft buffer size component of Example 8 selects the maximum soft buffer size in response to the eNB configuring 256 QAM.

Example 10 is a mobile communication device configured to store a first table having entries for a plurality of modulation schemes for communication between the mobile communication device and a base station. The mobile communication device is further configured to receive a table configuration message from the base station the table configuration defining at least a portion of a second table. The second table includes a modulation scheme having a modulation order higher than the plurality of modulation schemes of the first table. The second table includes a same number of entries as the first table and the second table is configured for selective use in place of the first table. The mobile communication device is further configured to select a selected table from one of the first table and the second table and to receive and process a communication from the base station based on an entry in the selected table.

In Example 11 the first table and the second table of Example 10 are predefined by a communication standard.

In Example 12 the mobile communication device of any of Examples 10 11 is further configured to determine a rank indicator based on a current channel quality and select the selected table based on the rank indicator.

In Example 13 selecting the selected table in Example 12 optionally includes selecting based on the rank indicator meeting or exceeding a rank indicator threshold configured via one or more of a RRC layer message and a MAC layer message

In Example 14 the table configuration message of any of Examples 10 13 optionally indicates which entries in the first table should be removed and replaced with entries corresponding to the higher order modulation in the second table.

In Example 15 selecting the selected table in any of Examples 10 14 includes selecting based on control information received in a physical layer communication.

In Example 16 the control information of any of Examples 10 15 indicates a number of scheduled layers and selecting the selected table is based the number of scheduled layers.

In Example 17 selecting the selected table in any of Examples 10 16 includes selecting based on the number of scheduled layers meeting or exceeding a layer threshold configured via one or more of a RRC layer message and a MAC layer message.

In Example 18 the physical layer communication of any of Examples 10 17 includes a cyclic redundancy check scrambled using an RNTI and the selected table is selected based on the RNTI.

In Example 20 the mobile communication device of any of Examples 10 19 include a soft buffer having a maximum soft buffer size. The mobile communication device is further configured to use a default soft buffer size until an indication from a base station indicates a capability corresponding to the maximum soft buffer size. The default soft buffer size is less than the maximum soft buffer size.

In Example 21 the mobile communication device of any of Examples 10 20 is configured to use the maximum soft buffer size in response to the eNB configuring the modulation scheme comprising the higher order modulation. The higher order modulation includes a 256 QAM scheme.

Example 22 is an eNB that includes a table configuration component a capability component and a control component. The table component is configured to maintain two or more tables each including entries for a plurality of available modulation schemes. The one or more tables include a first table and a second table having a matching number of entries. The second table includes an entry for a high order modulation scheme higher than a highest modulation scheme of the first table. The capability component is configured to determine that UE is capable of the high order modulation scheme. The eNB is in communication with the UE via a small cell. The control component is configured to send control information to the UE in a PDCCH or EPDCCH communication. The control information indicates to the UE which table of the first table and the second table to use for a corresponding PDSCH communication.

In Example 23 the capability component of Example 22 is configured to determine that the UE is capable of the high order modulation scheme based on a 3GPP release version of the UE.

In Example 24 the eNB of any of Examples 22 23 further includes a modulation and coding scheme selection component that is configured to receive a channel quality indicator from the UE indicating a recommended modulation and a recommended coding rate and determine a modulation and coding scheme for the UE based on the channel quality indicator.

In Example 25 the control component of any of Examples 22 24 is further configured to send control information comprising a modulation and coding scheme index indicating the modulation and coding scheme to receive and process the PDSCH communication.

Example 26 is a method for determining an MCS. The method includes maintaining two or more tables each having entries for a plurality of available modulation schemes. The two or more tables include a default table and a secondary table which have a matching number of entries. The secondary table includes an entry corresponding to a 256 QAM scheme. The method includes selecting a selected table from one of the default table and the secondary table. The method includes receiving and processing a communication from an eNB based on a modulation and coding scheme of the selected table.

In Example 27 the default table and secondary table of Example 26 each include a modulation and coding scheme table used to select a modulation order and transport block size based on a modulation and coding scheme index. The secondary table is for selective use in place of the default table.

In Examples 28 the default table of Example 27 includes a first entry corresponding to a first modulation order and a second entry corresponding to a second modulation order higher than the first modulation order. The first entry and the second entry correspond to coding schemes having the same spectral efficiency and the secondary table includes the entry corresponding to the 256 QAM scheme in place of one of the first entry and the second entry.

In Example 29 the default table and secondary table of any of Examples 26 28 each include a channel quality indicator table used to indicate a modulation and coding rate preferred by the UE based on a channel quality indicator index. The secondary table is for selective use in place of the default table

In Example 30 the default table of any of Examples 26 29 includes a default modulation and coding scheme table and the secondary table includes a secondary modulation and coding scheme table. The method further includes maintaining a default channel quality indicator table and a secondary channel quality indicator table. The method includes selecting a plurality of selected tables comprising one of the default modulation and coding scheme table and the secondary modulation and coding scheme table and selecting one of the default channel quality indicator table and the secondary channel quality indicator table.

In Example 31 the method of any of Examples 26 30 include selecting the selected table in response to the UE receiving one or more of an RRC layer message or a MAC layer message indicating the selected table.

In Example 32 selecting the selected table in any of Examples 26 31 includes selecting in response to the UE receiving downlink control information in a PDCCH or EPDCCH communication.

In Example 33 the UE of any of Examples 26 32 includes a soft buffer having a maximum soft buffer size. The method further includes using a default soft buffer size until an indication from the eNB indicates a capability corresponding to the maximum soft buffer size. The default soft buffer size is less than the maximum soft buffer size.

In Example 34 the method of Example 33 further includes selecting the maximum soft buffer size in response to the eNB configuring 256 QAM.

Example 35 is a method for determining an MCS including storing a first table having entries for a plurality of modulation schemes for communication between a mobile communication device and a base station. The method further includes receiving a table configuration message from the base station the table configuration defining at least a portion of a second table. The second table includes a modulation scheme having a modulation order higher than the plurality of modulation schemes of the first table. The second table includes a same number of entries as the first table and the second table is configured for selective use in place of the first table. The method includes selecting a selected table from one of the first table and the second table and receiving and processing a communication from the base station based on an entry in the selected table.

In Example 36 the first table and the second table of Example 35 are predefined by a communication standard.

In Example 37 the method of any of Examples 35 36 further include determining a rank indicator based on a current channel quality and selecting the selected table based on the rank indicator.

In Example 38 selecting the selected table in Example 37 optionally includes selecting based on the rank indicator meeting or exceeding a rank indicator threshold configured via one or more of a RRC layer message and a MAC layer message

In Example 39 the table configuration message of any of Examples 35 38 optionally indicates which entries in the first table should be removed and replaced with entries corresponding to the higher order modulation in the second table.

In Example 40 selecting the selected table in any of Examples 35 39 includes selecting based on control information received in a physical layer communication.

In Example 41 the control information of any of Examples 35 40 indicates a number of scheduled layers and selecting the selected table is based the number of scheduled layers.

In Example 42 selecting the selected table in any of Examples 35 41 includes selecting based on the number of scheduled layers meeting or exceeding a layer threshold configured via one or more of a RRC layer message and a MAC layer message.

In Example 43 the physical layer communication of any of Examples 35 42 includes a cyclic redundancy check scrambled using an RNTI and the selected table is selected based on the RNTI.

In Example 45 the mobile communication device of any of Examples 35 44 includes a soft buffer having a maximum soft buffer size. The method further includes using a default soft buffer size until an indication from a base station indicates a capability corresponding to the maximum soft buffer size. The default soft buffer size is less than the maximum soft buffer size.

In Example 46 the method of any of Examples 35 45 includes using the maximum soft buffer size in response to the eNB configuring the modulation scheme comprising the higher order modulation. The higher order modulation includes a 256 QAM scheme.

Example 47 is a method for determining an MCS that includes maintaining two or more tables each including entries for a plurality of available modulation schemes. The one or more tables include a first table and a second table having a matching number of entries. The second table includes an entry for a high order modulation scheme higher than a highest modulation scheme of the first table. The method includes determining that UE is capable of the high order modulation scheme. An eNB is in communication with the UE via a small cell. The method includes sending control information to the UE in a PDCCH or EPDCCH communication. The control information indicates to the UE which table of the first table and the second table to use for a corresponding PDSCH communication.

In Example 48 determining that the UE is capable of the high order modulation scheme in Example 47 includes determining based on a 3GPP release version of the UE.

In Example 49 the method of any of Examples 47 48 further includes receiving a channel quality indicator from the UE indicating a recommended modulation and a recommended coding rate and determining a modulation and coding scheme for the UE based on the channel quality indicator.

In Example 50 the method of any of Examples 47 49 further includes sending control information that includes a modulation and coding scheme index indicating the modulation and coding scheme to receive and process the PDSCH communication.

Example 52 is a machine readable storage including machine readable instructions which when executed implement a method or realize an apparatus of any of Examples as 26 51.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives a non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM an EPROM a flash drive an optical drive a magnetic hard drive or another medium for storing electronic data. The eNB or other base station and UE or other mobile station may also include a transceiver component a counter component a processing component and or a clock component or timer component. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or an object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification may be implemented as one or more components which is a term used to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a component may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom very large scale integration VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A component may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Components may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified component of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object a procedure or a function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified component need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations that when joined logically together comprise the component and achieve the stated purpose for the component.

Indeed a component of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within components and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The components may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present disclosure. Thus appearances of the phrase in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on its presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and examples of the present disclosure may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as de facto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present disclosure.

Although the foregoing has been described in some detail for purposes of clarity it will be apparent that certain changes and modifications may be made without departing from the principles thereof. It should be noted that there are many alternative ways of implementing both the processes and apparatuses described herein. Accordingly the present embodiments are to be considered illustrative and not restrictive and the disclosure is not to be limited to the details given herein but may be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims.

Those having skill in the art will appreciate that many changes may be made to the details of the above described embodiments without departing from the underlying principles of the disclosure. The scope of the present disclosure should therefore be determined only by the following claims.

