---

title: Methods and systems for aggregating and presenting large data sets
abstract: The current document is directed to methods and systems that aggregate data from multiple sources and that organize and efficiently present data obtained from the data sources to a user on a user, or client, device. In certain implementations, a client-side application communicates with one or more servers of a cloud-based data-aggregation system. A multi-rotor-data-carousel-based graphical user interface accommodates data items continuously received from the data-aggregation system and efficiently displays portions of the data items to the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495468&OS=09495468&RS=09495468
owner: VULCAN TECHNOLOGIES, LLC
number: 09495468
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140312
---
The current document is directed to data aggregation and visualization and in particular to methods and systems for aggregating and presenting large data sets.

The ongoing evolution of computer processors data storage devices and networking technologies has revolutionized many aspects of modern life and has led to the creation and development of many new industries and businesses including distribution of multi media content and software social networking services and Internet retailing of goods. Large cloud based computational systems can aggregate and provide access to massive amounts of information from many different sources. The cloud based computational systems may provide requested information items from the aggregated information to users that access the information via a variety of different types of user devices. The user devices generally execute applications that provide graphical user interfaces GUIs through which users interact with the applications and which display information obtained from cloud based information services to the users. The number of displayed items and the types and sizes of renderings that can be displayed are often limited by available screen space which can be particularly problematic for mobile computing implementations. Designers developers and vendors of applications and information distribution services continue to seek new approaches to organizing and presenting information to users through graphical user interfaces.

The current document is directed to methods and systems that aggregate data from multiple sources and that organize and efficiently present data obtained from the data sources to a user on a user or client device. In certain implementations a client side application communicates with one or more servers of a cloud based data aggregation system. A multi rotor data carousel based graphical user interface accommodates data items continuously received from the data aggregation system and efficiently displays portions of the data items to the user.

The current document is directed to methods and systems for retrieving and aggregating large sets of data from a remote server system and presenting them to a user through a multi rotor data carousel based interface. In a first subsection computer architecture and cloud based services are introduced. In a second subsection electronic communication between a client and server is described. In a third subsection a method and system for retrieving and gathering data content from a data aggregation network is described. In a fourth subsection one implementation of the multi rotor data carousel based interface is provided.

It should be noted at the onset that method and system implementations are not restricted to a particular class or type of application programs or web sites but are generally applicable to a wide variety of different types of application programs web sites and web site based businesses and organizations. For example implementations can be applied to application programs that compile media content including movies TV shows music books and games but can also be applied to web sites or mobile applications for Internet commerce to social networking web sites and application programs to search engine service providers and many other types of application programs web sites and web site based business. It should also be noted at the onset that the currently disclosed methods and systems are directed to real tangible physical systems and methods carried out within physical systems including client computers and server computers. Those familiar with modem science and technology well appreciate that in modem computer systems and other processor controlled devices and systems the control components are often fully or partially implemented as sequences of computer instructions that are stored in one or more electronic memories and in many cases also in one or more mass storage devices and which are executed by one or more processors. As a result of execution of the computer instructions a processor controlled device or system carries out various operations generally at many different levels within the device or system according to control logic implemented in the stored and executed computer instructions. Computer instruction implemented control components of modem processor controlled devices and systems are as tangible and physical as any other component of the system including power supplies cooling fans electronic memories and processors and other such physical components.

Of course there are many different types of computer system architectures that differ from one another in the number and types of different memories employed including different types of hierarchical cache memories the number and types of processors and the connectivity of the processors with other system components the number and types of internal communications busses and serial links and in many other ways. However computer systems generally execute stored programs by fetching instructions from memory and executing the instructions in one or more processors. Computer systems include general purpose computer systems such as personal computers PCs various types of servers and workstations and higher end mainframe computers but may also include a plethora of various types of special purpose computing devices including data storage systems communications routers network nodes tablet computers and mobile telephones.

Client systems may include any of many types of processor controlled devices including tablet computers laptop computers mobile smart phones and other such processor controlled devices. These various types of clients may include only a subset of the components included in a desktop personal component as well components not generally included in desktop personal computers.

Electronic communications between computer systems generally comprises packets of information referred to as datagrams transferred from client computers to server computers and from server computers to client computers. In many cases the communications between computer systems is commonly viewed from the relatively high level of an application program which uses an application layer protocol for information transfer. However the application layer protocol is implemented on top of additional layers including a transport layer Internet layer and link layer. These layers are commonly implemented at different levels within computer systems. Each layer is associated with a protocol for data transfer between corresponding layers of computer systems. These layers of protocols are commonly referred to as a protocol stack. In a representation of a common protocol stack is shown below the interconnected server and client computers and . The layers are associated with layer numbers such as layer number 1 associated with the application layer . These same layer numbers are used in the depiction of the interconnection of the client computer with the server computer such as layer number 1 associated with a horizontal dashed line that represents interconnection of the application layer of the client computer with the applications services layer of the server computer through an application layer protocol. A dashed line represents interconnection via the application layer protocol in because this interconnection is logical rather than physical. Dashed line represents the logical interconnection of the operating system layers of the client and server computers via a transport layer. Dashed line represents the logical interconnection of the operating systems of the two computer systems via an Internet layer protocol. Finally links and and cloud together represent the physical communications media and components that physically transfer data from the client computer to the server computer and from the server computer to the client computer. These physical communications components and media transfer data according to a link layer protocol. In a second table aligned with the table that illustrates the protocol stack includes example protocols that may be used for each of the different protocol layers. The hypertext transfer protocol HTTP or hypertext transfer protocol secure may be used as the application layer protocol the transmission control protocol TCP may be used as the transport layer protocol the Internet protocol IP may be used as the Internet layer protocol and in the case of a computer system interconnected through a local Ethernet to the Internet the Ethernet IEEE 802.3u protocol may be used for transmitting and receiving information from the computer system to the complex communications components of the Internet. Within cloud which represents the Internet many additional types of protocols may be used for transferring the data between the client computer and server computer.

Consider sending of a message via the HTTP protocol from the client computer to the server computer. An application program generally makes a system call to the operating system and includes in the system call an indication of the recipient to whom the data is to be sent as well as a reference to a buffer that contains the data. The data and other information are packaged together into one or more HTTP datagrams such as datagram . The datagram may generally include a header as well as the data encoded as a sequence of bytes within a block of memory. The header is generally a record composed of multiple byte encoded fields. The call by the application program to an application layer system call is represented in by solid vertical arrow . The operating system employs a transport layer protocol such as TCP to transfer one or more application layer datagrams that together represent an application layer message. In general when the application layer message exceeds some threshold number of bytes the message is sent as two or more transport layer messages. Each of the transport layer messages includes a transport layer message header and an application layer datagram . The transport layer header includes among other things sequence numbers that allow a series of application layer datagrams to be reassembled into a single application layer message. The transport layer protocol is responsible for end to end message transfer independent of the underlying network and other communications subsystems and is additionally concerned with error control segmentation as discussed above flow control congestion control application addressing and other aspects of reliable end to end message transfer. The transport layer datagrams are then forwarded to the Internet layer via system calls within the operating system and are embedded within Internet layer datagrams each including an Internet layer header and a transport layer datagram. The Internet layer of the protocol stack is concerned with sending datagrams across the potentially many different communications media and subsystems that together comprise the Internet. This involves routing of messages through the complex communications systems to the intended destination. The Internet layer is concerned with assigning unique addresses known as IP addresses to both the sending computer and the destination computer for a message and routing the message through the Internet to the destination computer. Internet layer datagrams are finally transferred by the operating system to communications hardware such as a network interface controller NIC which embeds the Internet layer datagram into a link layer datagram that includes a link layer header and generally includes a number of additional bytes appended to the end of the Internet layer datagram. The link layer header includes collision control and error control information as well as local network addresses. The link layer packet or datagram is a sequence of bytes that includes information introduced by each of the layers of the protocol stack as well as the actual data that is transferred from the source computer to the destination computer according to the application layer protocol.

Next the RESTful approach to web service APIs is described beginning with . illustrates the role of resources in RESTful APIs. In and in subsequent figures a remote client is shown to be interconnected and communicating with a service provided by one or more service computers via the HTTP protocol . Many RESTful APIs are based on the HTTP protocol. Thus the focus is on the application layer in the following discussion. However as discussed above with reference to the remote client and service provided by one or more server computers are in fact physical systems with application operating system and hardware layers that are interconnected with various types of communications media and communications subsystems with the HTTP protocol the highest level layer in a protocol stack implemented in the application operating system and hardware layers of client computers and server computers. The service may be provided by one or more server computers as discussed above in a preceding section. As one example a number of servers may be hierarchically organized as various levels of intermediary servers and end point servers. However the entire collection of servers that together provide a service is addressed by a domain name included in a uniform resource identifier URI as further discussed below. A RESTful API is based on a small set of verbs or operations provided by the HTTP protocol and on resources each uniquely identified by a corresponding URI. Resources are logical entities information about which is stored on one or more servers that together comprise a domain. URIs are the unique names for resources. A resource about which information is stored on a server that is connected to the Internet has a unique URI that allows that information to be accessed by any client computer also connected to the Internet with proper authorization and privileges. URIs are thus globally unique identifiers and can be used to specify resources on server computers throughout the world. A resource may be any logical entity including people digitally encoded documents organizations services routines and other such entities that can be described and characterized by digitally encoded information. Digitally encoded information that describes the resource and that can be accessed by a client computer from a server computer is referred to as a representation of the corresponding resource. As one example when a resource is a web page the representation of the resource may be a hypertext markup language HTML encoding of the resource. As another example when the resource is a list of movie items the representation of the resource may be one or more records each containing one or more fields that store a media metadata charactering the movie such as the movie s name cast members director a synopsis of the movie and other such information.

In the example shown in the web servers provides a RESTful API based on the HTTP protocol and a hierarchically organized set of resources that allow clients of the service to access information about the users and movies watched by users of the Acme Company. This service may be provided by the Acme Company itself or by a third party information provider. All of the user and movie information is collectively represented by a user information resource associated with the URI http www.acme.com userInfo . As discussed further below this single URI and the HTTP protocol together provide sufficient information for a remote client computer to access any of the particular types of user and movie information stored and distributed by the service . A user information resource represents a large number of subordinate resources. These subordinate resources include for each of the users of the Acme Company a user resource such as user resource . All of the user resources are collectively named or specified by the single URI http www.acme.com userInfo users . Individual user resources such as user resource are associated with user identifier numbers and are each separately addressable by user resource specific URIs such as URI http www.acme.com userInfo users 361 which includes the user identifier 361 for the user represented by user resource . Each user may be logically associated with one or more movies. For example the user represented by user resource is associated with three different movies each represented by a movie resource. All of the movie are collectively specified or named by a single URI http www.acme.com userInfo movies . All of the movies associated with the user represented by resource movies represented by movie resources can be collectively specified by the URI http www.acme.com userInfo users 361 movies . A particular movie such as the movie represented by movie resource may be specified by a unique URI associated with that movie such as URI http www.acme.com userInfo users 361 movies 1 where the final 1 is an movie number that specifies a particular movie within the set of movies corresponding to the particular user identified by the user identifier 361. 

In one sense the URIs bear similarity to path names to files in file directories provided by computer operating systems. However it should be appreciated that resources unlike files are logical entities rather than physical entities such as the set of stored bytes that together compose a file within a computer system. When a file is accessed through a path name a copy of a sequence of bytes that are stored in a memory or mass storage device as a portion of that file are transferred to an accessing entity. By contrast when a resource is accessed through a URI a server computer returns a digitally encoded representation of the resource rather than a copy of the resource. For example when the resource is a human being the service accessed via a URI specifying the human being may return alphanumeric encodings of various characteristics of the human being a digitally encoded photograph or photographs and other such information. Unlike the case of a file accessed through a path name the representation of a resource is not a copy of the resource but is instead some type of digitally encoded information with respect to the resource.

In the example RESTful API illustrated in a client computer can use the verbs or operations of the HTTP protocol and the top level URI to navigate the entire hierarchy of resources in order to obtain and post information. illustrate four basic verbs or operations provided by the HTTP application layer protocol used in RESTful applications. RESTful applications are client server protocols in which a client issues an HTTP request message to a service or server and the service or server responds by returning a corresponding HTTP response message. use the illustration conventions discussed above with reference to with regard to the client service and HTTP protocol. For simplicity and clarity of illustration in each of these figures a top portion illustrates the request and a lower portion illustrates the response. The remote client and service are shown as labeled rectangles as in . A right pointing solid arrow represents sending of an HTTP request message from a remote client to the service and a left pointing solid arrow represents sending of a response message corresponding to the request message by the service to the remote client. For clarity and simplicity of illustration the service is shown associated with a few resources .

As further discussed below and as mentioned above a service may return in response messages various different links or URIs in addition to a resource representation. These links may indicate to the client additional resources related in various different ways to the resource specified by the URI associated with the corresponding request message. As one example when the information returned to a client in response to a request is too large for a single HTTP response message it may be divided into pages with the first page returned along with additional links or URIs that allow the client to retrieve the remaining pages using additional GET requests. As another example in response to an initial GET request for the user info resource in the service may provide URIs and in addition to a requested representation to the client using which the client may begin to traverse the hierarchical resource organization in subsequent GET requests.

The data aggregation system described in this section can generally aggregate and distribute any of many different types of data to any of many different types of client applications. In the current document an implementation of the data aggregation system aggregates data related to movies that can be accessed by users from user devices through the Internet. This movie data aggregation system is only one example of the data aggregation systems that may provide large data sets to client applications.

The back end data servers provide movie browsing guides and data storage manage account information for users and carry out various additional tasks. The data servers may aggregate and curate raw data collected from proprietary servers as well as third party providers hosting free or subscription based content. For example third party providers may include websites that collect store and deliver movie content and related metadata such as Netflix YouTube Redbox and many other third party service providers.

In one implementation the back end data servers comprise a plurality of server computers and computer clusters including a logging server that aggregates log data streamed in real time from other internal servers one or more user profile database servers one or more recommendation engine servers a media content cluster and a staging database cluster . The one or more user profile database servers store user information such as user account information which include user names authentication credentials user preferences watch lists and movie collections for users and other information.

Staging database cluster processes ingests and validates raw data such as movie content and related metadata from various services including Netflix YouTube and Redbox. The frequency of data ingestion varies with the frequency of which raw data is made available by the services. The ingested raw data in the staging database cluster is further curated to ensure accuracy and additional metadata may be added to the curated data to facilitate organization and indexing of the curated data. The curated data is then pushed to the media content cluster for consumption by client side applications executed in client devices . Client side applications access the data stored by the media content cluster through the API server . The one or more recommendation engine servers further filter the media content and related metadata stored in the media content cluster . The one or more recommendation engine servers may also produce lists of recommendations for users through collaborative or content based filtering. For example in collaborative filtering a model is built from items accessed by the user and from the user s past behavior including movies the user has given numerical ratings to or shown interest in items the user previously purchased or selected and behaviors exhibited by other users in the user s community. The model is then used to predict items in which the user may have an interest. In content based filtering a series of discrete characteristics of an item are utilized to recommend additional items with similar characteristics. These approaches can be used individually or combined for curating the recommendation list. The data filtered by the one or more recommendation engine servers together with the data stored in the media content cluster is cached in the API server for client side application consumption. The data aggregation system includes many other types of systems and layers to facilitate data management and data transfer. Certain of the stored data sets may be redundantly stored to create multiple versions of data sets. Multiple data sets can be made available to other APIs and applications and may serve as back up sources. Additionally the data sets can be partitioned among various physical server computers to allow for efficient access.

One implementation of the currently described methods and systems includes a client side application that runs on a personal computer laptop notebook smart phone or other user device generally in the context of a web browser. The client side application communicates through a device operating system and the Internet with one or more server side API servers. The client side application creates and transmits requests to the one or more API servers. The one or more API servers process the request by querying the back end data servers. The one or more back end servers access a hierarchically organized set of resources Internet connected information services and or databases and caches on behalf of client side applications in order to process queries submitted to the one or more back end servers on behalf of the client side application by the one or more API servers. The one or more back end data servers return query responses to the one or more API servers which then return the requested results and related data to the client side application. The request response communications are carried out in one implementation using the RESTful approach based on the HTTP HTTPS protocol. Requests from the client side application include requests for authorization storage of data retrieval of data modification of data and deletion of data. The client side application undertakes rendering of returned data into various different types of visual representations provided to users through a multi rotor data carousel based interface described in following sections including carrying out lower level graphics processing in order to render representations of query results for display to the user. The one or more API servers provide various sets of RESTful APIs through which client side applications access different types of data and services including an authorization API a view API a user API a collection API and other APIs. The authorization API provides user login related services. For example a GET request GET http www.acme.com api authorization signup allows a client application to create an account for a new user. As another example a POST request POST http www.acme.com api authorization signin allows a user to login with an email address and password information. An example authorization request message is provided below 

Another set of calls is referred to as the view API . The view API is provided for retrieving details about an entity. For example a GET request GET http www.acme.com api view 2334f7b2 8a01 11df b0b0 7df443d5c70b detail allows a user to retrieve details about an entity represented by the entity URI 2334f7b2 8a01 11df b0b0 7df443d5c70b . The entity may be a movie item and details about the entity may include media metadata for the movie such as the name of the movie the cast members the ratings the synopsis of the movie and other such information. Additional APIs can be provided for access to playable actions for a movie TV show information for a season or an episode or other such information.

Another set of calls is referred to as the user API . The user API is provided for managing user information including a user ID user profile user picture user preferences a user s movie collection user rated movies by genre people following the user in a social network people whom the user is following a list of activities of the user and other user information.

The collection API is provided for retrieving a collection of entities that match the query parameters specified in requests for data from the data aggregation system a collection count and other properties of the collection such as category subcategory and tags. The API server provides resources that allow for the retrieval of partial information using query parameters so that client side applications avoid transferring parsing and storing unneeded data. The various APIs can be extended to accommodate additional information and types of information that may reside in or that can be accessed by the data aggregation system.

Responses to various types of requests submitted to the one or more API servers are often coded in JSON and transmitted back from the one or more API servers to the application using the RESTful approach and the HTTP HTTPS protocol. Responses may include status codes either numeric or descriptive and many different types of requested data. For example a response to an API call for accessing a movie collection list is provided below 

Application programs designed to run on computer systems allow users to perform a wide variety of functions including scientific computations business applications entertainment and so on. Many application programs include a graphical user interface GUI . The GUI typically includes various different icons menus list boxes and or other display features that allow users to browse select and execute commands. When a user selects a window or an icon new display features may be displayed on the display showing information related to the theme of the selected icon. Often the new display features include additional icons windows or list boxes that allow users to select and receive even more detailed information. GUI may also include hyperlinks that allow a user to navigate to other sites initiate execution of additional application programs and or command a device to execute various functions. In some cases application GUIs are configured to present data items that are extracted from a remote database and made available to users to browse and select.

One challenge faced by GUI designers is the limited display space available on a device display such as a computer monitor television set display and in particular a hand held device such as a mobile phone. To increase the number of data items displayed simultaneously within limited display space data items may be displayed vertically in a scrollable list or a grid controlled by a scroll bar on one side of the display screen. Likewise data items may also be displayed horizontally in a filmstrip presentation which may include a horizontal listing of data items coupled with a scroll bar below the displayed items or rotation features that rotate the items displayed in the horizontal list. The data items that do not fit within the vertical or horizontal display features can be accessed for viewing by a user swiping his or her fingers on a touch screen surface or scrolling with a computer mouse. One problem associated with these traditional data presentation methods is navigation or swipe fatigue from excessive sliding or swiping in large pannable regions. The current disclosure discusses a new method in the following sections that presents and displays a large set of data in a multi rotor data carousel based GUI.

A data carousel or carousel provides a two dimensional display of a logical three dimensional cylindrical section with a circular or elliptical cross section along the outer surface of which visual renderings of data items are displayed. The carousel can be controlled to rotate in order to display data items that are located on portions of the three dimensional surface that are not visible to the user in the two dimensional projection of the three dimensional carousel at the carousel s current rotational position. The carousel may be integrated into an application program such as for example an application program that compiles and displays media content including movies TV shows music books and games.

A termination marker may be included in the data displayed in a result rotor of the multi rotor data carousel based interface. The termination marker is a special graphic object that indicates that the last item in a carousel has been reached. As one example a data bin that displays the phrase The End may serve as a termination marker. Following the termination marker in certain implementations the display wraps around from the termination marker back to the first data item of the list of data items displayed in the carousel.

Data items and associated metadata may be stored in various data sources and metadata repositories such as one or more databases of the data aggregation system shown in . The data items are retrieved and aggregated by the API server after the API server receives a request for display of data items from the client application. Database queries may be executed to extract data items from the database tables. A list of data items returned by the queries may be temporarily stored in one or more databases or in buffers in or accessible to the API server with subsets of the data items loaded to memory for transfer to a user device when the user sends requests for additional data items for display. In certain cases data items may be pre loaded into the memory of a client device when the client application program is launched in order to save initial data retrieval and data transfer time. The API server may initially return only a portion of the data list to the client application. The client application may request additional data items by making subsequent requests to the API server. The lists of data items returned from the API server may be further filtered by specific attributes and grouped into sub categories by the application program.

The result rotor automatically rotates continuously revealing new data items as already displayed data items rotate out of view allowing the user to continuously view data items without providing navigation inputs such as swipes or scrolls. The result rotor spins at a rotational speed that may be pre defined for the user device or that may be configured by the user. The rotational speed is in certain implementations selected from among multiple discrete rotational speeds or from a continuous range of rotational speeds. The data items fade out of existence as they leave the viewable surface of the carousel. The data items corresponding to those bins with external surfaces pointing away from the user or obscured by the portion of the rotor logically closest to the user are not displayed to the user.

Content awareness is another feature of the data carousel based GUI disclosed in the current document. Content awareness relates a display mode selected for a carousel to the number of data items contained in the list to be displayed by the carousel. In certain cases the number of data items in a list may be shorter than the total number of data bins available within a rotor. In this situation empty bins may be left unpopulated. As the rotor spins and reaches the last data bin the rotor may fast forward to the first data bin. As another example the rotation speed of a result rotor may be set to a speed that depends on the number of data items associated with the result rotor.

Note that the data bins in the result rotor shown in are recycled as the rotor spins to display the data items in the list. As a result the result rotor is capable of displaying an essentially infinite number of data items contained in the list as the carousel cycles through the set of data bins. Additional data items can be continuously requested by the user device from the data aggregation system and returned to the user device for display during display of data items by the result rotor. In certain implementations the user device requests additional data items for display from the data aggregation system only when the result rotor is capable of displaying the data items to the user. For example in certain implementations the result rotor needs to be spinning and conveniently visible to the user.

While in free spin the rotor rotates at a constant speed. But the user can interrupt the free spin by swiping a finger on a touch screen display to the left or to the right. Each swipe implies a rotation from the current rotor position to another position. The user may swipe the touch screen at different velocities. For example a high velocity swipe causes the rotor to be rotated at higher rate. The carousel rotor may slowly come to a stop on a data item to which the user navigates with the swipe. Once free spin is interrupted an inactivity timer is set. When there is no further action from the user following setting of the inactivity timer up to expiration of the inactivity timer free spinning resumes. The user may repeatedly manually spin the result rotor using a finger swipe and the user can click a data item of interest to make a selection and stop rotation of the result rotor.

The user can touch a finger or input a mouse click to a data bin in order to display the metadata associated with the data item. When the user selects a data bin in this fashion information related to the data item is displayed in a new pop up window by displaying over the original contents of the data bin or by using another information display feature. For example a new display window may feature one or more navigational panels or icons devoted to different aspects or details of the movie item including a synopsis panel a cast panel that lists the cast of the movie item a review panel with reviews about the movie a viewable trailer for the movie a similar content panel that displays information about related movie items and other types of information. The client application may also aggregate and present a variety of remote sources to the user from which the user is able to stream or access the media content. For example the user may make a selection and choose to watch the movie through an external source such as Netflix or YouTube. The display window may have options that allow the user to make comments and recommendations share an interest in a movie with other users through network connections or add the movie to a watch list to be watched later. The user may navigate among panels using horizontally or vertically directed gestures or by using a scroll bar. At any panel the user may select one of the items displayed in the panel for example a similar movie item in the similar content panel and is directed to a new hierarchical information display with more detailed information and or hyperlinks that allow navigation to other sites or initiation of additional application programs. In certain implementations navigation tools are provided in the pop up window to allow users to navigate from the current data item to the next data item of the result rotor without leaving the pop up window. The user may also close the window by clicking a cross button located on the upper right corner of the pop up window. In certain implementations breadcrumb navigation features are provided to indicate the steps or paths a user has taken to arrive at the current window and to provide a return path to previously viewed information. The user can close the current window and return to the upper level display window by touching the navigation history.

The application program also provides additional mechanisms such as a search function allowing a user to search for a particular data item. The search function may access a search engine component that permits users to enter search queries in order to retrieve relevant data items. The search function also accesses a back end component that performs a search of stored data items and associated metadata to identify relevant search results. The stored data items may include data items retrieved from the data aggregation system in addition to the data items currently associated with result rotor data bins.

The client application maintains the new data buffer and the old data buffer in certain implementations in order to facilitate a change of direction in result rotor rotation. In these implementations data items are input to the result rotor from the new data buffer when the result rotor spins in a forward direction and data items are input to the result rotor from the old data buffer when the direction of the result rotor spinning is reversed by user input. In certain implementations the data aggregation system can determine the total number of data items contained in the list of data items retrieved from the one or more data sources and return to the user device a first portion of data items from the top of the list stored in the new data buffer and a second portion of data items from the bottom of the list stored in the old data buffer.

Although the present disclosure has been described in terms of particular implementations it is not intended that the disclosure be limited to these implementations. Modifications within the spirit of the disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example various implementations disclosed in the document may be adapted for use with any computer based display including personal computers distributed computing systems programmable consumer electronics tablet displays smart phone displays and so on. Any of many different implementations of the data aggregation system and data carousel based GUI can be obtained by varying any of many different design and implementation parameters including programming language underlying operating system data structures control structures modular organization and other such parameters. The underlying database may take different forms and different types of database management systems may be employed to store data. As noted there are many ways for an application to communicate with API. Subject matter described herein is not limited to the above request and response examples. The foregoing descriptions of specific implementations of the present disclosure are presented for purposes of illustration and description.

It is appreciated that the previous description of the disclosed implementations is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present disclosure. Various modifications to these implementations will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other implementations without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is not intended to be limited to the implementations shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

