---

title: Digital rights and integrity management in three-dimensional (3D) printing
abstract: Systems, methods and media for managing digital rights and pre-verification of structural integrity in three-dimensional (3D) printing are provided. In one example, a system comprises at least one module, executing on one or more computer processors, to receive a request from a user to print a 3D object by a 3D printer or printing service and receive a conditional authorization from an owner of digital rights in the 3D object to print the 3D object. The conditional authorization can include a printing specification or limitation. The at least one module pre-verifies, for structural integrity once printed by the 3D printer or printing service, a digital model on which the 3D object is based. In response to a received conditional authorization, the at least one module transmits instructions to the 3D printer or printing service to print the 3D object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09595037&OS=09595037&RS=09595037
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09595037
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141216
---
The present application relates generally to the technical field of three dimensional 3D printing and in particular to digital rights management and printing service fulfillment in online environments. In various embodiments systems methods and media are provided for facilitating digital rights management and promoting the use of three dimensional printing services.

Additive manufacturing or 3D printing is a process of making a three dimensional solid object of virtually any shape from a digital model. 3D printing is achieved using an additive process where successive layers of material are laid down in different shapes. 3D printing is considered distinct from traditional machining techniques which mostly rely on the removal of material by methods such as cutting or drilling subtractive processes .

The 3D printing technology is used for both prototyping and distributed manufacturing with applications in architecture construction AEC industrial design automotive aerospace military engineering civil engineering dental and medical industries biotech human tissue replacement fashion footwear jewelry eyewear education geographic information systems food and many other fields.

While there is a desire on the one hand to promote ubiquitous use and availability of 3D technology and its unique capabilities there is also a need to manage digital rights appropriately and avoid indiscriminate or unlawful use of 3D printing services.

The description that follows includes illustrative systems methods techniques instruction sequences and computing machine program products that embody illustrative embodiments. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of various embodiments of the inventive subject matter. It will be evident however to those skilled in the art that embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In general well known instruction instances protocols structures and techniques have not been shown in detail. In this specification the terms user and participant are used interchangeably unless the context indicates otherwise.

In some embodiments a three dimensional 3D printing marketplace is created in which 3D printing service providers compete to fulfill requests for 3D printing tasks. In some examples a 3D printing marketplace allows marketplace participants such as CAD designers manufacturers engineers consumers and so forth to upload designs or specifications generally referred to herein as digital models into a marketplace platform for example hosted by an online retailer or a 3D service provider. In some examples an upload fee is charged for example based on a fixed price or a variable price based on file size. In some examples the uploaded designs are displayed to 3D service providers or users buyers participating in the marketplace. The display can occur through various communication mediums such as web enabled devices mobile applications and the like. In some examples buyers can select a 3D printing service to print a 3D version of the displayed design. In some examples 3D service providers can compete or bid to complete a 3D printing task based on the displayed design. The buyers or 3D service providers can select a printing option associated with the displayed design from an array of available 3D printing options. In some examples the 3D printing marketplace may have access to a system of federated 3D printing services or a network of such services. The federated or networked printing services may be ranked and displayed to a buyer in order of preference or other identified criteria. As used in this specification the term ranking includes listing and where appropriate these terms are used interchangeably.

In one example a buyer can seek authorization from a digital rights owner or content provider in order to complete submission of or a request for a digital model for 3D printing. As used herein the term digital rights refers to the human or other rights that allow individuals or entities to access use create reproduce and publish digital media or to access and use computers other electronic devices or communications networks. The term is particularly related to the protection and realization of existing rights such as copyright or other designs rights vesting in a three dimensional article and includes rights in or to a digital model of that three dimensional article or adaptations of it. An owner of digital rights may for example be an original proprietor of such rights an author a designer or a licensee or transferee of such rights. The term digital rights is not intended to be limiting and the reference to an owner of digital rights in a 3D object is intended to include any entity having rights to create use or reproduce that 3D object. An owner may authorize others to use the digital rights vesting in a 3D object or a digital model of the object.

In some examples unless authorized a buyer is restricted from using any 3D printing services to 3D print the digital model. In some cases a buyer may be limited in the number of 3D models authorized for replication by 3D printing. In some examples a digital rights owner may pre authorize replication of a digital model for 3D printing in exchange for payment by the buyer of a royalty or other fee. The pre authorization to print a specified digital model may be published to the 3D printing marketplace at large. The pre authorization can be represented or embodied in the marketplace in various forms as discussed further below. A payment for royalty fees may be collected by a participant in the 3D marketplace such as a 3D printing service provider a retail merchant for example a toy store or Disney channel outlet or an electronic storefront for example. In some examples a royalty payment or authentication fee is included in a service charge for 3D printing services.

In some examples buyers can select an available 3D printing option or customize a design or digital model for 3D printing and in some examples may have multiple choices in buying the design or model rights to the design or model or three dimensionally printing the design or model. In some examples printing options for a buyer can include downloading a design file or digital model for their own use requesting printing services limited to 3D variants only requesting shipment of a 3D printed object to a buyer address in which event for example a 3D printing service could print and ship the 3D object from its own facility. The printing options could include requesting expedited shipment of a 3D printed object to a buyer address the same day for example using a print now facility or requesting collection of a 3D printed object from a nearby 3D printing kiosk or mobile facility such as a 3D printing van for example. In some examples the 3D kiosk or mobile facility may form part of the federated or networked system of 3D printing services discussed further above.

Thus an example system and related methods and media comprise at least one module executing on one or more computer processors to receive a request from a user to print a 3D object by a 3D printer or printing service receive a limited authorization also termed a restricted or conditional authorization herein from an owner of digital rights in the 3D object to print the 3D object the limited authorization including a printing specification or limitation pre verify for structural integrity once printed by the 3D printer or printing service a digital model on which the 3D object is based and based on a received limited authorization transmit instructions to the 3D printer or printing service to print the 3D object. The limited authorization may be a pre authorization to print the 3D object and the at least one module may publish the pre authorization in a publication network e.g. an electronic marketplace or environment. A limited restricted or conditional authorization is an authorization which has restrictions limitations or conditions in it.

The at least one module may further receive a certification of the 3D printer or printing service and publish the certification in a publication network.

In some examples the at least one module can permit the user to initiate a request for authorization to print the 3D object from the owner of digital rights to the 3D object and further can include the received limited authorization in the instructions transmitted to the 3D printer or printing service.

Conveniently the at least one module can process a monetary consideration for the received limited authorization and remit the monetary consideration to the owner of digital rights in the 3D object.

In some examples the at least one module communicates with a network of 3D printer service providers and lists the 3D printing service providers based on an availability or a suitability to fulfill a 3D printing task or by other criteria received from a user. For further convenience the network of 3D printer service providers may include a mobile printing facility.

The at least one module can in some examples instruct a digital rights management device to be embedded in or associated with an authorized printed 3D object. This can prevent further replication of the 3D object. In some examples the at least one module generates for display 3D printing options to the user the 3D printing options including one or more of a digital model download option a print option a shipping option a same day delivery option and a print at kiosk or mobile facility option.

In another example the system includes a portal allowing a digital rights owner to register rights in a digital model or 3D printed object. The at least one module can publish a registration of digital rights in the 3D object in a publication network or communicate the registration to the user or other third party.

Referring now to of the accompanying drawings participants in an online or electronic 3D printing marketplace environment generally designated by reference number can at operations submit or upload designs or specifications digital models for 3D printing into a marketplace selling platform such as a 3D printing services selling platform . The marketplace participants can include for example CAD designers manufacturers having direct or original designs for example consumers or private persons and entities creating or owning proprietary 3D designs or digital models. The entities can include retailers merchants branded entities TV channels or other electronic storefronts for example. Other examples of marketplace participants are possible. In some examples the participants own rights to the digital models submitted to the 3D printing services selling platform and the printed 3D objects based on such models.

In some examples an on line 3D printing service or online retailer for example presents an interface in the marketplace which displays various 3D printing service options including different ways of selecting and purchasing these services. In some examples an interface includes a portal allowing a user e.g. a buyer to obtain access to or pay for authorization to 3D print a digital model from a digital rights owner. In some examples a portal is provided allowing the owner of rights in a digital model to register those rights or authenticate or grant permission for 3D printing of the model. In some examples a digital rights owner can prevent 3D printing of a digital model or restrict the number of copies made. A monitoring or gate keeper function for the 3D printing of digital models can be enabled by the printing service or marketplace host for example.

With reference to of the accompanying drawings an example interface displayed by a 3D printing service may include among other elements an access link and or other type of visual or audible media suitable for an electronic storefront mobile application interface or website. In the example interface user interface elements such as download the 3D design print 3D design only ship printed 3D object . same day delivery 3D printed object and print 3D design at kiosks are provided. In some examples seek 3D digital rights and or register grant 3D digital rights user interface elements are provided. In some examples further user interface elements are provided allowing a buyer to select a checkout flow using a third party payment service provider. The interface is merely an example. The advertisement banner and user interface elements are merely examples. Other examples of user interfaces and interface elements are possible.

With reference to example 3D printing service channels in the 3D printing marketplace environment can include a 3D printing service web channels mobile channels 3D print kiosks or vehicles and printing locations . The kiosks and vehicles and printing locations may be branded by a major retailer 3D service provider or an electronic marketplace host for example.

In some examples a 3D printing certification device a symbol graphic mark or word brand or trademark for example is displayed in a user interface associated with a 3D printing service to attest to or confirm that authorized 3D printing rights have been granted to a certain 3D printing service or other marketplace participant offering or engaged in the provision of 3D printing services. The device may be encrypted or made special in an appropriate manner so that the granting of genuine rights in digital models can be certified or assured. In some examples use of the device or proxy by a 3D printing service provider or other marketplace participant can be restricted by the digital rights owner in relation to at least one aspect for example relating to a defined period a geographic location or territory defined buyers defined 3D printed objects defined uses defined characteristics and so forth. The restrictions may for example be based on a compliance with domestic or international statutes regulations contractual rights safety laws gun rights legislation constitutional freedoms and so forth.

Other examples of the conditional grant of digital rights include limiting or setting a fixed number of authorized goods or objects that can be printed with authorization and then de activating a 3D printer or digital file associated with that replication. In other instances a designated 3D printer or digital file may be provided to a user for the limited purpose of printing specified objects under specified conditions.

Certain goods derive their value by virtue of the fact that they are relatively scarce which may appear to be at odds with the limitless replication opportunities afforded by 3D printing. The present disclosure allows limited reproduction of limited edition or other unique types of goods. Viewed broadly an example system allows a set number of copies that can be made of a good and then no more copies can be produced. Thus one example includes creating by a digital rights owner or other party a defined pool or set of authorizations for a rare object to be replicated by 3D printing and decrementing the pool or set as each replication occurs until the pool or set is exhausted. Such restrictions on authorization can preserve the rarity or value of rare or limited edition items.

In other examples a digital rights owner e.g. sports memorabilia merchant can enable or authorize 3D printing of souvenirs and the like for creation only on certain days e.g. final game of the World Series or within certain time periods e.g. over Halloween . This can increase demand or interest in such items of memorabilia and as with the examples above preserve a degree of exclusivity and enduring value.

In some examples an owner of digital rights may authorize a printing service marketplace host or other marketplace participant to allow 3D printing of proprietary digital models based on acceptance by the 3D printing service or a buyer of certain terms and conditions. The authorization may be a pre authorization or provided on demand in some examples. The terms and conditions can be presented to a buyer in the course of the buyer selecting various example 3D printing options such as those discussed further above. Payment for access to or exercise of granted digital rights in addition to payment for 3D printing services can also be enabled and presented to a buyer in the course of a checkout flow. To this end one or more third party payment services provider may be employed. A cost model can be created for example based on a purchase or delivery option selected by a buyer in a checkout flow. In some examples money flows or royalty streams due to a digital rights owner can be separated from income derived from the purchase of 3D printing services. Authentication devices may be employed to manage the exercise of digital rights and some examples are discussed below.

In some examples digital rights to brands TV channels movie rights and other entertainment media are authorized and managed using the systems methods and media described herein. For example a 3D certification device in an interface managing requests and authorization to print 3D version of Disney characters might include a depiction of Mickey Mouse. The depiction may include two or three dimensional views of Mickey Mouse or a hologram effect for example. The certification symbol may be associated with code or other credentials submitted to a 3D printing machine. The code or credentials may relate to specific modes codes or numbers of 3D printing authorized by the digital rights owner. The code or other credentials may accompany a 3D printing request or instructions sent to a 3D printing facility for example. The printing facility may be a kiosk or mobile 3D printing van as discussed above. A great variety of 3D printing orders can be facilitated and fulfilled while preserving the rights of digital rights owners.

In some examples a need for 3D printing of an object is posted in the online marketplace. For example a user seeking a replacement case for a smartphone for example a Droid Razor can post this need and request 3D printing services to create a replacement case. A price for fulfillment can be set by the user or a printer service or other marketplace participant at a fixed or variable price by auction RFP or other manner for example. An ability to seek authorization from or pay a royalty or fee to the owner of digital rights to the smart phone case for example Samsung is provided.

In some examples a digital model is verified before 3D printing to check that it is able to be printed in a certain form or to exhibit a structural integrity or certain characteristics after production. For example to avoid a structural weakness or risk of breakage in a 3D printed object a 3D printing service or digital rights owner may provide instructions or algorithms to take into account a material choice an object configuration or size to assess or ensure whether the object proposed to be three dimensionally printed is able to stand unaided or will not break. Other examples of verification criteria are possible. In some examples prior verification of a digital model or proposed 3D object is important to a digital rights owner to avoid damage to a brand. A 3D printing run of thousands of Mickey Mouse figurines that each fall over cannot maintain a pose or can be broken easily by a child can be harmful to a brand owner and so the manner in which 3D printing is conducted may need to be controlled.

The unauthorized use of 3D printing to make replica copies of original works can raise further concerns about quality. For example poorly made Lego blocks or other branded toys could negatively impact the image and reputation of that brand. One proposed solution is to allow only printers of a certain capability and setting to print such branded toys. A brand owner could further specify that only printers of a certain quality running on settings determined by the brand owner will be permitted to print branded toys. In certain aspects a feedback loop is provided whereby replica objects printed by a particular printer are inspected via an automated process e.g. visual sensors and so forth to ensure that the quality of the objects the authorized 3D printers are producing is suitably high to maintain a certified status.

Management of these additional aspects may be desirable even when a buyer or 3D service provider has otherwise sought or been granted 3D printing authorization using an example method or system described above. In some examples a combination of certification devices code and or credentials and verification instructions or algorithms are employed by a digital rights owner a 3D service provider or other marketplace participant to manage and fulfill 3D printing requests and fulfillment.

In some examples an artifact or other device is caused to be embedded in a digital model or 3D printed object that disallows or controls further production. A design fingerprint can be employed in encrypted or hidden manner to prevent unauthorized 3D scanning or printing of an object. In some examples a chip code or tag embedded in an object for example a Mickey Mouse figurine can be scanned or otherwise configured or interrogated to authorize control or prevent 3D printing replication of the object one or more times as may have been authorized by a digital rights owner for example Disney in the case of Mickey Mouse . The chip code or tag is provided in some examples in an original version of the object that may have been created using casting subtractive manufacturing or other conventional manufacturing techniques. In some examples the chip code or tag is included in a 3D printed replication of the object or a digital model or scan from which the object can be made. In some examples the chip code or tag is transmitted to a 3D printing service or facility for inclusion in 3D objects that may be printed by that service or facility. The transmission may accompany 3D printing instructions sent to a printing facility kiosk or mobile van for example by a 3D printing service . In some examples a user buyer service provider or other marketplace participant can source a chip code or tag from a digital rights owner or an owner s agent. This sourcing may form part of the authorization operations discussed further above. In some examples a digital rights owner may mandate inclusion of a chip code or tag in a 3D printed object when providing authorization to a user or 3D printing service .

In some examples the rights managed by the inventive subject matter relate to compliance aspects such as CBT tax customs import export copyright or other intellectual property. In one example gun control authorities can manage or prevent the 3D replication of weapons firearms projectiles ammunition and so forth. In some examples algorithms or code can be used to modify 3D printed objects to comply with local laws or regulations.

As mentioned above the 3D printing marketplace may include or have access to a system of federated 3D printing services . The federated 3D printing services may be ranked by a marketplace participant and displayed in order of user preference or based on other identified criteria identified by a user e.g. a buyer .

In some examples a computer implemented system is provided for managing digital rights pertaining to the 3D printing of digital models. The system may include a computing device that implements a 3D printing marketplace component wherein the marketplace component further comprises a merchant unit a transaction unit a consumer unit and a digital rights authorization unit wherein the merchant unit the transaction unit the consumer unit and the digital rights authorization unit cooperatively act to receive a request from a consumer for a 3D printing task rank a plurality of 3D printing service providers based on an availability or a suitability to fulfill the 3D printing task or by other criteria received from the consumer enable the consumer or a 3D service provider selected by the consumer to seek a 3D printing authorization from an owner of digital rights associated with the requested 3D printing task enable the owner of digital rights to publish or convey a 3D printing authorization to the consumer or selected 3D service provider and collect from the consumer or selected 3D service provider a royalty or fee in consideration of a used authorization. The units may also act cooperatively to collect a charge from the consumer for fulfillment of the requested 3D printing task. In some examples the units may also act cooperatively to publish or convey to the 3D printing marketplace a certified pre authorization granted by a digital rights owner for 3D printing tasks or services.

Thus in some embodiments a system comprises a memory and at least one module executing on one or more computer processors to host or participate in a 3D printing marketplace environment including marketplace participants the marketplace participants including at least one 3D printing service provider receive a request from a marketplace participant to print a 3D object at a 3D printing service provider receive an authorization from an owner of digital rights to the 3D object to print the 3D object and based on an received authorization transmit instructions to a 3D printing service provider to print the 3D object.

In some examples the authorization is a pre authorization to three dimensionally print a defined 3D object and wherein the at least one module is further to publish the pre authorization and a representation of the defined 3D object in the 3D marketplace environment. In some examples the at least one module is further to certify the received authorization and display the certified authorization to a marketplace participant. In some examples the at least one module is further to permit a marketplace participant to initiate a request for authorization to print the 3D object from an owner of digital rights to the 3D object.

In some examples the at least one module is further to include the received authorization in the instructions transmitted to the 3D printing service provider. In some examples the at least one module is further to verify a digital model on which a 3D object is based before the 3D object is printed. In some examples the at least one module is to receive from a marketplace participant a monetary consideration for the received authorization and remit the monetary consideration to the owner of digital rights to the printed 3D object.

In some examples the at least one module is further to communicate with a network of 3D printer service providers and rank the 3D printing service providers based on an availability or a suitability to fulfill a 3D printing task or by other criteria received from a marketplace participant. In some examples the network of 3D printing service providers includes a mobile printing facility.

In some examples the at least one module is further to instruct or cause a digital rights management device to be embedded in an authorized printed 3D object.

In some examples the at least one module is further to display 3D printing options to a marketplace participant the 3D printing options including one or more of a download a design option a print a design option a ship a printed object option a same day 3D object delivery option and a print at kiosk or mobile van option.

In some examples the system further includes a portal allowing a digital rights owner to register rights in a digital model or 3D printed object. In some examples the at least one module is further to publish a registration of digital rights to the 3D printing marketplace or communicate the registration to a marketplace participant. In some examples the system including the at least one module may be configured to perform any of the operations functions and method steps discussed within the present disclosure.

In some embodiments a non transitory machine readable medium may include a set of instructions that when executed by a machine cause the machine to perform any of the operations functions and method steps discussed within the present disclosure.

Turning again to the accompanying drawings illustrates a network diagram depicting an example system for facilitating 3D printing services provided in a 3D printing service marketplace e commerce environment according to some embodiments. A networked system forms a network based system that provides server side functionality via a network e.g. the Internet or wide area network WAN to one or more clients and devices. further illustrates for example one or both of a web client e.g. a web browser and a programmatic client executing on client machines and . In one embodiment the system comprises a marketplace system. In another embodiment the system comprises other types of systems such as but not limited to a social networking system a matching system an electronic commerce e commerce system and the like.

Each of the client machines comprises a computing device that includes at least a display and communication capabilities with the network to access the networked system . The client machines comprise but are not limited to work stations computers general purpose computers Internet appliances hand held devices wireless devices portable devices wearable computers cellular or mobile phones portable digital assistants PDAs smart phones tablets ultrabooks netbooks laptops desktops multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics game consoles set top boxes network PCs mini computers and the like. Each of the client machines may connect with the network via a wired or wireless connection. For example one or more portions of network may be an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network a wireless network a WiFi network a WiMax network another type of network or a combination of two or more such networks .

Each of the client machines includes one or more applications also referred to as apps such as but not limited to a web browser messaging application electronic mail email application an e commerce site application also referred to as a marketplace application including 3D printing service applications and the like. In some embodiments if the e commerce site application is included in a given one of the client machines then this application is configured to locally provide the user interface and at least some of the functionalities with the application configured to communicate with the networked system on an as needed basis for data and or processing capabilities not locally available such as access to a database of items available for sale 3D printing services available to authenticate a user to verify a method of payment etc. . Conversely if the e commerce site application is not included in a given one of the client machines the given one of the client machines may use its web browser to access the e commerce site or a variant thereof hosted on the networked system . Although two client machines are shown in more or less than two client machines can be included in the system .

An application program interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application server s host one or more marketplace applications and payment applications . The marketplace application s can include 3D printing service applications. The application server s is in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases .

The marketplace application s may provide a number of e commerce functions and services to users that access networked system . E commerce functions services may include a number of publisher functions and services e.g. search listing content viewing payment etc. . For example the marketplace application s may provide a number of services and functions to users for listing goods and or services or offers for goods and or services for sale searching for goods and services facilitating transactions and reviewing and providing feedback about transactions and associated users. The services can include 3D printing services. Additionally the marketplace application s may track and store data and metadata relating to listings transactions 3D service providers rankings and user interactions. The data can include digital rights data digital rights certification and registration digital model and 3D object verification data of the type discussed elsewhere in this specification. In some embodiments the marketplace application s may publish or otherwise provide access to content items stored in application server s or database s accessible to the application server s and or the database server s .

The payment application s may likewise provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment application s may allow users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products or items e.g. goods or services that are made available via the marketplace application s . The payment application s may regulate payment to sellers for goods and or services sold in the marketplace and direct a portion of the proceeds to a marketplace controller for use of susceptibility profiles for boosting the conversion of sales. The payment application s may allow collection or payment of royalty fees and the like for use of digital rights associated with requests or fulfillment of 3D printing tasks. The payment application s may be configured or coded to allow any of the money related operations functions and method steps discussed within the present disclosure.

While the marketplace and payment applications and are shown in to both form part of the networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the payment application s may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the networked system . In other embodiments the payment application s may be omitted from the system . In some embodiments at least a portion of the marketplace application s may be provided on the client machines and or .

Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to such an architecture and may equally well find application in for example a distributed or peer to peer architecture system. The various marketplace and payment applications and may also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client accesses the various marketplace and payment applications and via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the marketplace and payment applications and via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example be a seller application e.g. the TurboLister application developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. to enable sellers to author and manage listings on the networked system in an off line manner and to perform batch mode communications between the programmatic client and the networked system .

The networked system may provide a number of publishing listing and or price setting mechanisms whereby a seller also referred to as a first user may list or publish information concerning goods or services including 3D printing services for sale or barter a buyer also referred to as a second user can express interest in or indicate a desire to purchase or barter such goods or services and a transaction such as a trade may be completed pertaining to the goods or services. To this end the networked system may comprise at least one publication engine and one or more selling engines . The publication engine may publish information such as item or service listings or product description pages on the networked system . In some embodiments the selling engines may comprise one or more fixed price engines that support fixed price listing and price setting mechanisms and one or more auction engines that support auction format listing and price setting mechanisms e.g. English Dutch Chinese Double Reverse auctions etc. . The various auction engines may also provide a number of features in support of these auction format listings such as a reserve price feature whereby a seller may specify a reserve price in connection with a listing and a proxy bidding feature whereby a bidder may invoke automated proxy bidding. The selling engines may further comprise one or more deal engines that support merchant generated offers for products and services.

A listing engine allows sellers to conveniently author listings of items or authors to author publications. In one embodiment the listings pertain to goods or services including 3D printing services that a user e.g. a seller wishes to transact via the networked system . In some embodiments the listings may be an offer deal coupon or discount for the good or service. Each good or service is associated with a particular category. The listing engine may receive listing data such as title description and aspect name value pairs. Furthermore each listing for a good or service may be assigned an item identifier. In other embodiments a user may create a listing that is an advertisement or other form of information publication. The listing information may then be stored to one or more storage devices coupled to the networked system e.g. database s . Listings also may comprise product description pages that display a product and information e.g. product title specifications and reviews associated with the product. In some embodiments the product description page may include an aggregation of item listings that correspond to the product described on the product description page.

The listing engine also may allow buyers to conveniently author listings or requests for items desired to be purchased. In some embodiments the listings may pertain to goods or services that a user e.g. a buyer wishes to transact via the networked system . Each good or service is associated with a particular category. The listing engine may receive as much or as little listing data such as title description and aspect name value pairs that the buyer is aware of about the requested item. In some embodiments the listing engine may parse the buyer s submitted item information and may complete incomplete portions of the listing. For example if the buyer provides a brief description of a requested item the listing engine may parse the description extract key terms and use those terms to make a determination of the identity of the item. Using the determined item identity the listing engine may retrieve additional item details for inclusion in the buyer item request. In some embodiments the listing engine may assign an item identifier to each listing for a good or service.

In some embodiments the listing engine allows sellers to generate offers for discounts on products or services. The listing engine may receive listing data such as the product or service being offered a price and or discount for the product or service a time period for which the offer is valid and so forth. In some embodiments the listing engine permits sellers to generate offers from the sellers mobile devices. The generated offers may be uploaded to the networked system for storage and tracking. In some embodiments the selling engine or the listing engine allows a user to request use of susceptibility profiles in offering the listed items for sale in the marketplace.

Searching the networked system is facilitated by a searching engine . For example the searching engine enables keyword queries of listings published via the networked system . In example embodiments the searching engine receives the keyword queries from a device of a user and conducts a review of the storage device storing the listing information. The review will enable compilation of a result set of listings that may be sorted and returned to the client device e.g. client machine of the user. The searching engine may record the query e.g. keywords and any subsequent user actions and behaviors e.g. navigations .

The searching engine also may perform a search based on the location of the user. A user may access the searching engine via a mobile device and generate a search query. Using the search query and the user s location the searching engine may return relevant search results for products services offers auctions and so forth to the user. The searching engine may identify relevant search results both in a list form and graphically on a map. Selection of a graphical indicator on the map may provide additional details regarding the selected search result. In some embodiments the user may specify a radius or distance from the user s current location as part of the search query in order to limit search results.

The searching engine also may perform a search based on an image. The image may be taken from a camera or imaging component of a client device or may be accessed from storage.

In a further example a navigation engine allows users to navigate through various categories catalogs or inventory data structures according to which listings may be classified within the networked system . For example the navigation engine allows a user to successively navigate down a category tree comprising a hierarchy of categories e.g. the category tree structure until a particular set of listings is reached. Various other navigation applications within the navigation engine may be provided to supplement the searching and browsing applications. The navigation engine may record the various user actions e.g. clicks performed by the user in order to navigate down the category tree.

In some embodiments a 3D printing service and authentication module s may be configured to create and implement the 3D printing service certification registration verification and other functions and methods described in this specification. It is contemplated that the 3D printing service and authentication module s may be further configured to provide or perform any of the features functions methods or operations related to 3D printing disclosed herein.

Additional modules and engines associated with the networked system are described below in further detail. It should be appreciated that modules or engines may embody various aspects of the details described below.

Client device merchant device and payment provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

Client device may be implemented using any appropriate hardware and software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment the client device may be implemented as a personal computer PC a smart phone personal digital assistant PDA laptop computer and or other types of computing devices capable of transmitting and or receiving data such as an iPad from Apple .

The client device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit the user to browse information available over the network . For example in one embodiment the browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet or access a website of the payment provider. The client device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by the user . In some embodiments the toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with the browser application .

The client device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to the client device . For example other applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over the network or other types of applications. The other applications may also include email texting voice and IM applications that allow the user to send and receive emails calls texts and other notifications through the network . The client device may include one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with the browser application identifiers associated with hardware of the client device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication or identification. In some embodiments a user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate the user with a particular account maintained by the payment provider. A communications application with associated interfaces enables the client device to communicate within system .

Merchant device may be maintained for example by a merchant or seller offering various items products and or services including 3D printing services through an online site or app. Generally the merchant device may be maintained by anyone or any entity that receives money which includes charities as well as retailers and restaurants. The merchant device may include a database identifying available products and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by the user . The merchant device may also include a marketplace application including one or more 3D printing service applications which may be configured to serve information over network the to the browser application of the client device and or the payment provider server . In one embodiment the user may interact with the marketplace application to view various 3D printing services available for purchase from the merchant.

The merchant device may also include a checkout application which may be configured to facilitate the purchase by the user of 3D printed objects or 3D printing services identified by the marketplace application . The checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from or on behalf of the user through the payment provider server over the network . For example the checkout application may receive and process a payment confirmation from the payment provider server as well as transmit transaction information to the payment provider and receive information from the payment provider e.g. a transaction ID . The checkout application may also be configured to accept one or more different funding sources for payment.

The merchant device may also include registration and authorization applications allowing the management of digital rights to 3D printed objects and digital models in accordance with any of the operations functions and methods described elsewhere in this specification. For example an owner of digital rights can use a registration and authorization application to register rights in a given 3D object or digital model or to publish or regulate those rights to the 3D marketplace environment. In other examples a 3D printing service provider can use a registration and authorization application to certify or verify a 3D object or digital model before 3D printing. Other examples as set forth in the method operations discussed below are possible.

Payment provider server may be maintained for example by an online service provider which may provide payment between the user and the operator of the merchant device . In this regard the payment provider server includes one or more payment applications which may be configured to interact with the client device and the merchant device over the network to facilitate the purchase of goods or services by the user of the client device as well as search merchant offerings and prices as discussed above.

The payment provider server may also maintain a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with individual users . For example the account information may include susceptibility profile data or private financial information of users of devices such as account numbers passwords device identifiers user names phone numbers credit card information bank information or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by the user . The account information may also include information associated with the payment process described herein. Conveniently the payment application s may be configured to interact with the merchant device on behalf of the user during a transaction with the checkout application to handle payments.

A transaction processing application which may be part of the payment application s or separate may be configured to receive information from the client device and or merchant device for processing and storage in a payment database as described above. The transaction processing application may include one or more applications to process information from the user and or the merchant for processing a transaction from the client device as described herein. As such the transaction processing application may store details of a transaction or from an email and associate the details accordingly for individual users . The transaction processing application may also regulate payments between a user and a marketplace controller based for example on use by the user of the stored susceptibility profiles. The payment application s may be further configured to determine the existence of and to manage accounts for the user as well as create new accounts if needed performing tasks such as set up digital rights management and providing various services as described herein.

Some of the embodiments disclosed herein include methods. is a flowchart illustrating a method for managing digital rights in 3D printing operations. The operations of the method may be performed by the client machine client machine client device merchant device and or a server included in the networked system e.g. API server web server or application servers . The operations may be performed by one or more modules e.g. 3D printing service and authentication module s . The various operations of the method may be performed in different orders and the method may include only some of the operations described below.

The method may comprise at operation receiving a request from a user to print a 3D object by a 3D printer or printing service at operation receiving a limited authorization also termed a restricted or conditional authorization herein from an owner of digital rights in the 3D object to print the 3D object the limited authorization including a printing specification or limitation at operation pre verifying for structural integrity once printed by the 3D printer or printing service a digital model on which the 3D object is based and at operation based on a received limited authorization transmitting instructions to the 3D printer or printing service to print the 3D object.

In some examples at operation the limited authorization is a pre authorization to print the 3D object and the method further includes publishing the pre authorization in a publication network.

The method may include at operation receiving a certification of the 3D printer or printing service and publishing the certification in a publication network. The method may further include permitting at operation the user to initiate a request for authorization to print the 3D object from the owner of digital rights in the 3D object.

In further examples the received limited authorization is included in the instructions transmitted to the 3D printer or printing service. Additionally the method may include processing a monetary consideration for the received limited authorization and remit the monetary consideration to the owner of digital rights in the 3D object.

In further examples the method includes communicating with a network of 3D printer service providers and listing the 3D printing service providers based on availability or suitability to fulfil a 3D printing task or by other criteria received from the user. The network of 3D printer service providers includes a mobile printing facility.

The method may include instructing or causing a digital rights management device to be embedded in or associated with an authorized printed 3D object and in some further examples may include generating for display 3D printing options to the user the 3D printing options including one or more of a digital model download option a print option a shipping option a same day delivery option and a print at kiosk or mobile facility option.

In a further operation a registration portal may be provided allowing a digital rights owner to register rights in a digital model or 3D printed object and some examples of the method include publishing a registration of digital rights in the 3D object in a publication network or communicating the registration to the user or other third party.

These and other variations in the performance of the method are within the scope of embodiments of the present disclosure.

In some embodiments additional details and features can be provided. In some examples a service is provided to a user or consumer that enables an enhanced online shopping experience. In various embodiments the user may select an item of interest save it for a specific occasion category and share all saved items in the category to a closed group or open group of other users . The user may share a list of one or more items along with quantity desired so that others may see and purchase items for the user .

The user may see a best or ranked price for the item across the Internet and not just from a single merchant or single site. The user may also see a list of best prices from different merchants and locations so that the user can select what is best or most desirable for the user including if and where the item is available for local pick up. The system may determine user preferences such as sizes colors and other item features from previous purchases so that when items are returned they include desired or previously purchased user features.

A list of saved items of interest may be shown on a single page from different online merchants. The list or display of items may show items that have been placed in a cart to be purchased have already been purchased or are still waiting for possible purchase. The user may drag and drop or otherwise place individual items on the display in a single cart on a user display. The single cart may show all selected items with the site or merchant that is offering each item. Once ready for purchase the user may see a pre populated screen of a shipping address shipping option and funding source which the user can edit if desired.

With an item or list that is shared from another the user may select a desired item from the list for purchase. The user may then see a pre populated screen showing the recipient name and shipping address such as of the person who shared the list with the user . The user may also be sent notifications such as through text when the item is available at or below a certain user specified price.

In some embodiments a user may express interest in an item. The system can search for best deals for that item across the web including any coupons that can be applied. Deals may be color coded to help visualize best deals. The user can also indicate that a particular item is too expensive but wants to see less expensive similar items look alikes and or knock offs and the system will return such a list to the user . The service provider may also provide information to merchants to help them provide more useful offers or recommendations to users and increase the likelihood of a sale.

It is contemplated that any of the features and or embodiments discussed herein may be combined or incorporated into any of the other features and or embodiments.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the network of and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product e.g. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a FPGA or an ASIC .

A computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network e.g. network . The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures merit consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation or cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of data structures and instructions e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media . The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the static memory .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present embodiments or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions . The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and compact disc read only memory CD ROM and digital versatile disc or digital video disc read only memory DVD ROM disks.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such instructions .

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

