---

title: Method and apparatus for restoring a shoulder joint and/or another joint
abstract: Apparatus for repairing a shoulder joint, including a baseplate having a base portion having a medially-facing surface and a laterally-facing surface, and an opening passing through the medially-facing and laterally-facing surfaces for receiving a screw; and an anterior flange having an anteriorly-facing surface and a posteriorly-facing surface, the anterior flange extending away from, and perpendicular to, the medially-facing surface, the anterior flange having an opening passing through the anteriorly-facing and posteriorly-facing surfaces for accepting a screw; an articulating surface component for mounting to the laterally-facing surface for covering the laterally-facing surface; and an anterior cover for mounting to the anteriorly-facing surface and configured to lock the articulating surface component to the base portion, such that when the anterior cover is mounted to the anterior flange, the articulating surface component is locked to the base portion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09345582&OS=09345582&RS=09345582
owner: 
number: 09345582
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20141119
---
This patent application claims benefit of prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 906 227 filed Nov. 19 2013 by Barry T. Bickley et al. for METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR RESTORING A SHOULDER JOINT which patent application is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates to medical procedures and apparatus in general and more particularly to medical procedures and apparatus for restoring a shoulder joint and or another joint.

The shoulder joint is formed at the convergence of the proximal humerus and the glenoid. More particularly and looking now at the proximal humerus comprises a protrusion or head and the lateral glenoid comprises a recess or socket for receiving the protrusion or head of the proximal humerus. Soft tissue e.g. ligaments tendons muscles etc. stabilize the joint and permit the proximal humerus to articulate through a range of motion with respect to the glenoid.

Shoulder joint replacement surgery seeks to replace one or more of the operative elements of the shoulder joint with prosthetic components so as to provide long lasting function and pain free mobility. By way of example but not limitation in a standard shoulder joint replacement surgery the proximal humerus may be replaced by a prosthetic ball and stem the lateral glenoid may be replaced by a prosthetic socket or both. By way of further example but not limitation in a reverse shoulder joint replacement surgery the proximal humerus may be provided with a prosthetic socket and the lateral glenoid may be provided with a prosthetic protrusion.

The present invention is directed to situations where the lateral glenoid is to be replaced by a prosthesis.

In one form of the invention the glenoid prosthesis comprises a socket which mimics the natural socket of the glenoid.

In another form of the invention the glenoid prosthesis comprises a protrusion for interaction with a prosthetic socket formed in the lateral humerus in a so called reverse shoulder replacement.

Significantly the glenoid prosthesis is constructed so as to allow a surgeon to switch from a standard shoulder replacement procedure to a reverse shoulder replacement procedure or vice versa either during surgery or at a later date.

While the present invention is specifically intended for use in the glenoid the prosthesis of the present invention may also be adapted for use in a variety of other joints within the body e.g. the hip knee elbow wrist ankle etc.

In one preferred form of the invention there is provided apparatus for repairing a shoulder joint said apparatus comprising 

In another preferred form of the invention there is provided a method for restoring a shoulder joint said method comprising 

mounting said baseplate to the glenoid by positioning said baseplate against the glenoid and passing at least one base portion screw through said at least one opening in said base portion and by passing at least one flange screw through said at least one opening in said flange 

mounting said articulating surface component to said base portion such that said at least one base portion screw is covered by said articulating surface component and

mounting said anterior cover to said anterior flange such that said articulating surface component is locked to said base portion and said at least one flange screw is covered by said anterior cover.

In one form of the invention the glenoid prosthesis comprises a socket which mimics the natural socket of the glenoid.

In another form of the invention the glenoid prosthesis comprises a protrusion for interaction with a prosthetic socket formed in the lateral humerus in a so called reverse shoulder replacement.

Significantly the glenoid prosthesis is constructed so as to allow a surgeon to switch from a standard shoulder replacement procedure to a reverse shoulder replacement procedure or vice versa either during surgery or at a later date.

In order to simplify description of the present invention the new glenoid prosthesis will first be discussed in the context of providing a socket which mimics the natural socket of the glenoid. Thereafter the new glenoid prosthesis will be discussed in the context of providing a protrusion for interaction with a prosthetic socket formed in the lateral humerus in a so called reverse shoulder replacement.

Looking first at there is shown a novel glenoid prosthesis formed in accordance with the present invention. Glenoid prosthesis generally comprises a baseplate an articulating surface component and an anterior cover .

More particularly and looking now at baseplate comprises a substantially flat base portion for seating against the surface of the resected glenoid. Base portion comprises a plurality of holes passing therethrough for receiving bone screws therein see whereby to secure base portion and hence baseplate to the surface of the resected glenoid as will hereinafter be discussed. Baseplate further comprises a plurality of protrusions extending outwardly from base portion of baseplate wherein each protrusion comprises a groove for securing articulating surface component to baseplate as will hereinafter be discussed. An anterior flange extends medially and substantially perpendicular to the plane of base portion . Anterior flange comprises a plurality of holes passing therethrough for receiving bone screws therein whereby to secure anterior flange and hence baseplate to the surface of the resected glenoid as will also hereinafter be discussed. Anterior flange further comprises a plurality of grooves for securing anterior cover to baseplate as will hereinafter be discussed.

Looking next at articulating surface component comprises a concave laterally facing surface and a planar medially facing surface . A plurality of grooves are disposed around the perimeter of articulating surface component intermediate laterally facing surface and medially facing surface whereby to form a plurality of tabs out of portions of the perimeter of medially facing surface . Tabs are sized to be received in grooves of baseplate whereby to secure articulating surface component to baseplate e.g. by a friction fit a snap fit etc. . By way of example but not limitation articulating surface component may be formed out of polyethylene so as to provide a smooth articulating surface. Concave laterally facing surface preferably has a surface profile approximating the surface profile of the native lateral glenoid.

Looking next at anterior cover comprises a smooth anteriorly facing surface a protrusion located along one side of anterior cover and two tabs sized to be slidably received in slots of anterior flange of baseplate .

In use the native bone i.e. the native lateral glenoid is first surgically resected so as to provide a seat for receiving glenoid prosthesis i.e. the lateral glenoid is resected so as to provide a surface for seating base portion and flange of baseplate against the bone . Then baseplate is positioned against the resected lateral glenoid and a plurality of bone screws are advanced through holes of base portion into the resected lateral glenoid whereby to secure base portion to the resected bone . Next a plurality of bone screws are advanced through holes of flange into the lateral glenoid whereby to secure flange to the resected lateral glenoid. It should be appreciated that by having bone screws disposed substantially perpendicular to bone screws baseplate of glenoid prosthesis is securely fastened to the native bone via a multi planar fixation.

Next articulating surface component is secured to baseplate by sliding tabs of articulating surface component into grooves of baseplate . Note that articulating surface component overlies bone screws thereby preventing bone screws from backing out of the resected lateral glenoid.

Finally anterior cover is secured to anterior flange and hence to baseplate by sliding tabs of anterior cover into grooves of anterior flange until protrusion of anterior cover engages the perimeter of medially facing surface of articulating surface component . Note that anterior cover overlies bone screws thereby preventing bone screws from backing out of the resected lateral glenoid. It should be appreciated that after anterior cover is secured to baseplate in this fashion anterior cover locks articulating surface component to baseplate thereby preventing articulating surface component from being removed from baseplate without first removing anterior cover .

Note that novel glenoid prosthesis is universal in the sense that the same glenoid prosthesis may be used to reconstruct either the right shoulder of the patient or the left shoulder of the patient. Thus while the glenoid prosthesis shown in is shown oriented for a right shoulder reconstruction and while the glenoid prosthesis is shown in as being used in a right shoulder reconstruction the same glenoid prosthesis may be used for a left shoulder reconstruction i.e. by simply rotating the orientation of the glenoid prosthesis by 180 degrees.

In the foregoing description glenoid prosthesis is discussed in the context of providing a concave articulating surface to approximate the socket geometry of the native glenoid. However it should also be appreciated that if desired articulating surface component can comprise a substantially convex laterally facing surface i.e. a protruding element rather than the aforementioned concave laterally facing surface or concave laterally facing surface A whereby to provide a so called reverse shoulder replacement prosthesis. By way of example but not limitation and looking now at glenoid prosthesis may comprise an articulating surface component having a convex laterally facing surface whereby to provide the protrusion portion of the shoulder joint rather than the socket portion of the shoulder joint and which can engage the socket portion of another bone structure or another prosthesis so as to provide an articulating joint.

Significantly as discussed above the glenoid prosthesis of the present invention provides a baseplate that can be used as a foundation for either a standard shoulder replacement procedure or a reverse shoulder replacement procedure. The glenoid prosthesis of the present invention allows a surgeon to easily switch from one procedure to the other procedure i.e. from a standard shoulder replacement procedure to a reverse shoulder replacement procedure or vice versa either intra operatively or at a later date if it is decided that one or the other procedure is more appropriate such as in the scenario where a patient has a standard prosthesis placed for arthritis but at a later date develops a rotator cuff tear and there is a need to revise the standard prosthesis to a reverse shoulder replacement so as to improve his her function. In such a case with the present invention the surgeon can simply exchange the articulating surface component that is fitted to the baseplate and not have to revise the entire glenoid component which could potentially jeopardize the somewhat limited bone stock at the natural glenoid on the scapula. In other words where it is desired to revise the standard prosthesis to a reverse prosthesis the surgeon can simply exchange the standard articulating surface component having a concave laterally facing surface with the reverse articulating surface component having a convex laterally facing surface without ever having to remove baseplate from the resected glenoid.

Securing a glenoid prosthesis to the native lateral glenoid so as to avoid loosening given the shape and size of the bone structure is a well known problem for surgeons. Baseplate of the present invention is mounted to the glenoid by first preparing a bone surface i.e. by resecting the lateral glenoid so as to accommodate baseplate of glenoid prosthesis or baseplate A of glenoid prosthesis A . Baseplate of glenoid prosthesis or baseplate A of glenoid prosthesis A is then mounted to the resected glenoid and secured in place by screws or pins that go through baseplate or baseplate A perpendicular to the face of the resected lateral glenoid. However a unique feature in the glenoid prosthesis of the present invention is the provision of additional screw fixation that is placed from the anterior aspect of the baseplate i.e. through anterior flange or anterior flange A . These screws i.e. screws go into the native glenoid at an angle and provide fixation from a different plane than the screws i.e. screws going perpendicular to the plane of the glenoid face. This multi planar fixation of baseplate or baseplate A is different than the standard method of glenoid fixation and provides greater strength and durability to the glenoid prosthesis. No other glenoid prosthesis provides this feature.

Screws passing through substantially flat base portion of baseplate or through substantially flat base portion A of baseplate A and or screws passing through anterior flange of baseplate or flange A of baseplate A can be locking i.e. screws can tighten into threaded holes in baseplate or threaded holes A in baseplate A that correspond to threads on the screw head so as to couple the screws and baseplate together and or screws can tighten into threaded holes in anterior flange or threaded holes A in anterior flange A so as to couple the screws and anterior flange together. Or screws and or screws can be non locking i.e. traditional smooth headed screws that go through the baseplate or baseplate A but do not mechanically lock the screws to the baseplate and or traditional smooth headed screws that go through anterior flange or anterior flange A but do not mechanically lock the screws to the anterior flange.

Additionally one or more of holes in baseplate or holes A in baseplate A can be replaced by slots. These slots can allow greater options in placing screws . If desired these slots may have offset edges that act as a thread that corresponds to a thread on the screw head so as to provide a mechanical lock between screws and baseplate . Furthermore one or more of holes in anterior flange or holes A in anterior flange A can be replaced by slots. These slots can allow greater options in placing screws . If desired these slots may have offset edges that act as a thread that corresponds to a thread on the screw head so as to provide a mechanical lock between screws and anterior flange .

As noted above screws on the face of baseplate or baseplate A are prevented from backing out by the articulating surface component or by the articulating surface component A or by the articulating surface component that is mounted to baseplate or baseplate A .

As also noted above screws extending through anterior flange or anterior flange A are covered by a separate cover plate i.e. anterior cover or anterior cover A that acts as a door to allow the standard articulating surface component or articulating surface component A or the reverse articulating surface component to be slid into baseplate or baseplate A . Note that as the articulating surface component is slid into place on the baseplate the articulating surface component is caught by grooves on baseplate or grooves A on baseplate A so that the articulating surface component cannot move in a plane perpendicular to the face of the baseplate. Note also that the articulating surface component will be unable to move anterior posterior inasmuch as the articulating surface component is bound posteriorly by a protrusion of baseplate or a protrusion A of baseplate A and anteriorly by the anterior cover which is mounted in place after positioning of the articulating surface component . With the desired articulating surface component slid into place on the baseplate the final step is to slide the anterior cover along the anterior flange of the baseplate in the grooves in the anterior flange that accommodate the anterior cover. The anterior cover will catch on the baseplate and or the articulating surface component when the anterior cover is fully seated thereby providing a snap fit. There is no force on the anterior cover to back out as there is no movement of the articulating surface component on the baseplate in the plane perpendicular to the face of the implant and the anterior cover is further secured by catching on the articulating surface component and grooves on the baseplate. The anterior cover also covers the anterior screws i.e. screws so they cannot loosen and back out and in effect this construct locks all the components together as one unit so as to minimize the risk of the entire glenoid baseplate loosening over time.

It should be appreciated that if the articulating surface component should become worn and require replacement the articulating surface component can be replaced without dismounting the baseplate from the resected glenoid thereby preserving the fusion which has been established between the baseplate and the bone. More particularly where the articulating surface component has become worn and requires replacement the anterior cover is removed the worn articulating surface component is dismounted from the baseplate the new articulating surface component is installed on the baseplate and then the anterior cover is replaced.

If it is desired to revise the prosthesis e.g. to convert the glenoid prosthesis from a socket type prosthesis to a protrusion type prosthesis the anterior cover or the anterior cover A can easily be removed as the catching mechanism i.e. the snap fit of the anterior cover with the articulating surface component is easily overcome by inserting a separate flat tool such as a flat screw driver not shown in the groove at the lateral most aspect of the anterior cover and then twisting the tool. This action slides the anterior cover medially in the grooves or grooves A that the anterior cover sits in and begins the disassembly process. With the anterior cover removed the articulating surface component on the base plate can then be slid out anteriorly and exchanged for a reverse dome shaped articulating surface component i.e. articulating surface component allowing for easy revision to a reverse prosthesis. The reverse dome shaped articulating surface component is then secured in place by replacing the anterior cover whereupon the revision is complete without ever needing to affect the security and fixation of the baseplate to the resected lateral glenoid.

If it is desired to remove the entire glenoid prosthesis e.g. such as in the case of a significant infection then the components are disassembled in a similar fashion. The anterior cover is removed which exposes the anterior screws and allows for removal of the articulating surface component from the baseplate. Removal of the articulating surface component exposes the screws extending through the baseplate. All screws can then be removed with no scar or fibrous ingrowth in the screw heads inasmuch as the screw heads have been covered previously during the life of the implant.

Thus it will be seen that the novel glenoid prosthesis of the present invention allows the surgeon to mount a baseplate to the resected glenoid and then add components to the baseplate so that a worn component of the system can be easily replaced or the shoulder reconstruction can be easily revised from standard reconstruction to a reverse reconstruction without ever disrupting attachment of the baseplate to the resected glenoid.

It will also be seen that the novel glenoid prosthesis provides a unique multi planar fixation feature to the baseplate so as to allow better fixation of the glenoid prosthesis to the resected glenoid.

And it will be seen that the manner in which the various components of the novel glenoid prosthesis fit together ensures that when they are assembled the components together prevent any of the individual components from loosening or coming apart. However when desired a portion of the construct can be disassembled so as to allow replacement of the articulating surface component either because the articulating surface component has become worn or because the shoulder reconstruction is to be revised from a standard glenoid insert to a reverse glenosphere insert or the construct can be completely disassembled and removed if needed e.g. such as in the case of a significant infection.

While the present invention is specifically intended for use in the glenoid it will be appreciated that the prosthesis of the present invention may be adapted for use in a variety of other joints within the body e.g. the hip knee elbow wrist ankle etc. In this respect it should be appreciated that inasmuch as the articulating surface component of the new prosthesis can have various profiles according to the articulating surface it is to replace the prosthesis can be used in a wide range of joint reconstructions.

It should be understood that many additional changes in the details materials steps and arrangements of parts which have been herein described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the present invention may be made by those skilled in the art while still remaining within the principles and scope of the invention.

