---

title: Piezoelectric microcantilever sensors for biosensing
abstract: A piezoelectric microcantilever for sensing compounds or molecules. The piezoelectric microcantilever, may include at least one electrode, an insulation layer, a receptor, an immobilization layer, a non-piezoelectric layer and a piezoelectric layer The sensor is capable of self actuation and detection. The piezoelectric layer may be constructed from a highly piezoelectric thin lead magnesium niobate-lead titanate film, a highly piezoelectric thin zirconate titanate film, a highly piezoelectric lead-free film. Methods of using the sensors and flow cells and arrays including the sensors are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09274087&OS=09274087&RS=09274087
owner: Drexel University
number: 09274087
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20141124
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 514 941 filed Nov. 18 2009 which is a 371 of International Patent Application No. PCT US2007 085771 filed Nov. 28 2007 which in turn claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 867 538 filed Nov. 28 2006.

This invention was reduced to practice with Government support under Grant No. R01 EB000720 awarded by the National Institutes of Health the Government is therefore entitled to certain rights to this invention.

The invention relates to piezoelectric microcantilever sensors for biosensing. More specifically the invention relates to highly sensitive piezoelectric microcantilevers capable of determining the presence and or mass of organic compounds. Applicable fields of use may include biodefense food safety and pathogen detection.

Current biosensing technologies utilize quartz crystal microbalances QCM silicon microcantilevers electrochemical enzyme immunoassays fluorescence laser based or fiber optics based methods amplification schemes such as polymerase chain reaction PCR or bound metal particles to determine the presence and or mass of organic compounds. These techniques however fail to provide quantitative efficient or highly sensitive detection. In addition to lacking sensitivity they are also incapable in some cases of simultaneously monitoring multiple compounds or being used in high throughput array applications.

Of these technologies QCM which utilizes thickness mode resonance sensing is one of the most common commercially available biosensing technologies. Detection sensitivity of a QCM is related to the resonance frequency and the thickness of the quartz membrane. A resonance frequency of about 5 MHz corresponding to a quartz membrane thickness of 330 m enables a minimum detectable mass density of about 10g cm. Sensitivity is therefore generally limited to a range of about 10g Hz.

To increase sensitivity some biosensors utilize silicon based microcantilevers which offer a sensitivity of approximately 10g Hz about three orders of magnitude higher than QCMs. Advantageously silicon microcantilevers are also widely available and may be easily integrated with existing silicon fabrication methodologies. Most silicon microcantilevers however rely on complex external optical components for deflection detection an external driving mechanism for actuation and also require laser alignment. Moreover because they are not piezoelectric silicon microcantilevers are inferior for in solution sensing yielding low resonance peaks upon immersion in a solution.

Piezoelectric cantilevers in comparison use electrical means for detection and are not encumbered by the complexity and mass of the silicon based sensors. Constructed from lead zirconate titanate PZT they are capable of electrical self excitation and self sensing for in situ electrical detection. Currently piezoelectric biosensors are millimeter size cantilevers made by bonding commercial PZT to non piezoelectric substrates such as stainless steel titanium or glass. Although capable of in situ biosensing these millimeter size cantilevers lack the desired sensitivity for such applications.

Thin film based PZT microcantilevers such as those disclosed in JP 07027559 A2 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 084 554 are highly sensitive instruments. U.S. Pat. No. 7 084 554 in particular discloses a thin piezoelectric film biomorph capable of being formed as a cantilever. The biomorph may be composed of a piezoelectric thin PZT film of about 1 10 m in thickness for the purpose of increasing the working frequency range of micro electro mechanical dimensioned MEMS systems. The patent further teaches that the piezoelectric thin film may be fabricated by thin film fabrication methods such as a sol gel method sputtering hydrothermal methods chemical vapor deposition CVD or another thin film fabrication method followed by low temperature annealing and dry etching plasma etching or patterning by wet chemical etching See col. 5 lines 55 64 of U.S. Pat. No. 7 084 554 . These piezoelectric microcantilevers however are incapable of in situ electrical detection due to degradation of resonance peaks in solution.

Recent advances in thin film PZT microcantilevers incorporate an electrical insulation layer that prevents liquid damping. U.S. Patent Publication no. 2005 0112621 discloses an insulation layer surrounding a PZT microcantilever having a thin piezoelectric film in order to prevent conduction in liquid media See e.g. col. 4 lines 28 36 .

However there remains a need for a piezoelectric microcantilever device capable of in solution biologic detection having a femtogram or higher sensitivity. In addition there remains a need for a device consisting of array piezoelectric microcantilevers that is capable of simultaneous detection of multiple compounds.

Advancement in the sensitivity accuracy and efficiency of electrical biosensing is essential to the developing field of bioterrorism defense. During the fall of 2001 for example spores a bioterrorism agent were responsible for the deaths of 5 individuals and infection of 17 others. As bioterrorism threats become more prevalent there is a growing need for reliable in situ detectors capable of efficiently detecting multiple biological agents in real time.

Advancements in biosensing accuracy sensitivity multi compound detection are also potentially useful in the health sciences for early detection and prevention of diseases. Breast cancer for example is the second leading cause of death for women. Although a number of potential breast cancer markers such as HER2 HER2 neu c erbB 2 EGFR CA 15 3 CA27.29 urokinase plasminogen activator receptor uPAR carcinoembryonic antigen CEA fetoprotein AFP and cytokeratins are known no blood test or method for detecting these markers currently exists. Mammography is frequently inadequate and often produces false positives leading to unnecessary biopsies. Therefore early detection methods for various cancers and other diseases lacking adequate diagnostic means like breast cancer that are capable of accurately effectively and non invasively identifying and quantifying pathogens and other disease markers are also needed.

In a first aspect the present invention is directed to piezoelectric microcantilever sensors useful for detecting organic compounds. The piezoelectric microcantilever includes a piezoelectric layer a non piezoelectric layer and a receptor. The microcantilever may be constructed from piezoelectric lead magnesium niobate lead titanate Pb MgNb O PbTiO PMN PT PMN PT which typically has a thickness not greater than 70 m with a dielectric constant of at least 1600.

In a second embodiment the piezoelectric layer of the microcantilever is constructed from lead zirconate titanate PZT which typically has a thickness not greater than 4 m with a dielectric constant of at least 1600.

In another aspect the present invention is directed to methods for bioterrorism defense food safety and pathogen detection.

Piezoelectric microcantilever sensors PEMS are mass sensors that use an electrical means for detection. Receptors are coated on the surface of PEMS to bind molecules of interest. The PEMS detects a change in mass because newly bound target molecules shift the mechanical resonance frequency of the device. By monitoring the resonance frequency shifts a PEMS is capable of rapid label free in situ quantitative detection of organic compounds or molecules including pathogens antigens and proteins in a small volume solution e.g. 100 l or in a cell culture using simple all electrical measurements. PEMS are capable of electric actuation and detection and may also be constructed as an array for simultaneous monitoring of multiple target compounds or molecules.

Conductive elements may be any element capable of conducting an electrical signal from the piezoelectric layer to a device for detecting that signal. In a preferred embodiment conductive elements and are electrodes which may be constructed from any conductive material. Preferably the first electrode is constructed from Au Cr or Pt Ti and subsequently patterned in several regions. The second electrode is preferably constructed from Pt TiOon SiOfor PZT SiOPEMS or Pt Ti on a metal substrate or non piezoelectric layer and subsequently patterned as well.

In order to maintain functionality in solution by preventing conduction it may be useful to electrically separate or buffer conductive element and second conductive element . Conductive element is patterned slightly smaller than the piezoelectric layer to ensure complete insulation of the edges and corners thereof. Any electrically insulating layer may be used as a coating to achieve electrical separation or buffering.

In one embodiment insulating layer may comprise a 1.5 m thick parylene poly para xylylene coating deposited on an electrode by chemical vapor deposition. When placed in static and 1 ml min flow rate of PBS solution a parylene insulating layer essentially prevents background resonance frequency shifts greater than 30 Hz and 60 Hz respectively over a period of 30 minutes. As a result insulating layer enables complete submersion of the microcantilever for in situ or in solution detection while maintaining a Q value quality value greater than 35. For the purposes of this patent application Q value is defined as the ratio of the resonance frequency to the resonance peak width at half the peak height.

Alternatively a PEMS may be insulated using self assembled monolayers with hydrophobic properties preferably methyltrimethoxysilane MTMS or a combination of MTMS with parylene coatings of varying thicknesses may also be used. When immersed in a PBS solution an MTMS insulated piezoelectric microcantilever yields strong resonance peak intensities and prevents background resonance frequency shifts greater than 30 Hz over a period of 30 minutes.

Other insulation materials may include 3 mercaptopropyl trimethoxysilane AlO SiOand any functional hydrophobic silane having a hydrophobic group selected from the group consisting of alkyl phenyl alkyl halide alkene alkyne and sulfhydryl. In a preferred embodiment the insulation material is mercaptopropylsilane MPTS which can also function to immobilize a receptor on the cantilever. The insulating materials may also include any combination of any of MTMS MPTS parylene 3 mercaptopropyl trimethoxysilane AlO SiO any functional hydrophobic silane having a hydrophobic group selected from the group consisting of alkyl phenyl alkyl halide alkene alkyne and sulfhydryl or a combination thereof.

Receptors may be densely packed and immobilized onto for example a bi functional linker modified sensor surface. Any receptor such as specially synthesized cavitants DNA oligonucleotides proteins single chain variable fragments scFvs enzymes and antibodies to cells antigens pathogens viruses parasites or combinations thereof may be bound to the sensor surface. For example when trying to detect tumors monomeric and dimeric anti tumor scFv molecules which are composed of variable light and heavy chains of antibody molecule anti ECD scFV that react to cancer markers may be bound to the electrodes. Similarly when trying to detect BA antibodies specific to BA spore surface antigens may be immobilized on the electrodes.

Any means of adhering receptors to the sensor surface may be utilized. In a preferred embodiment receptors are bound to the electrodes using an immobilization coating such as self assembled monolayers SAM MPTS and bi functional linkers. In one embodiment for purposes of binding scFv the immobilization coating may be a self assembled monolayer of 3 mercaptoproprionic acid MPA on a copper and gold coated electrode activated with 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropy carbodimide hydrochloride EDC and 5 mg ml N hydroxysulfosuccinimide NHS .

The PEMS also includes at least one non piezoelectric layer which may be fabricated from any compatible material including a ceramic material a polymeric material a metallic material or combinations thereof. Preferably the non piezoelectric layer is fabricated from silicon dioxide SiO and silicon nitride SiN for PZT thin film based PEMS. For example a silicon nitride coating on single crystal silicon wafer may be prepared by low press chemical vapor deposition. A low stress silicon dioxide layer may subsequently be deposited on the silicon nitride layer by growing silicon dioxide films using low temperature oxide deposition or plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition. For PMN PT based PEMS the non piezoelectric layer can be any ceramic metallic or polymeric layer. A metallic layer such as Cu tin Ni Ti etc. or any combination is preferred because it can be provided by simple electroplating.

Non piezoelectric layer may be bonded to a shorter piezoelectric layer so that the portion of non piezoelectric layer extending beyond the end of piezoelectric layer forms a non piezoelectric tip. Both piezoelectric layer and non piezoelectric layer may be attached to a clamp. In an alternative embodiment piezoelectric layer may extend beyond non piezoelectric layer forming a piezoelectric tip. Optionally the PEMS may be constructed so that neither piezoelectric layer nor the non piezoelectric layer extends beyond the other. In order to achieve the best results one of the piezoelectric and non piezoelectric layers preferably extends beyond the other to form a tip. A PEMS may also include multiple piezoelectric and non piezoelectric layers. For example a non piezoelectric layer may be placed between two piezoelectric layers or a piezoelectric layer may be placed between two non piezoelectric layers.

A significant aspect of the microcantilever device is the fabrication of a highly piezoelectric layer which enables electrical detection and actuation within the cantilever. The piezoelectric layer may function as a driving element vibrating element and sensing element. Applying an AC voltage input across the piezoelectric layer bends and vibrates the PEMS which in turn induces a piezoelectric voltage that produces readily detectable changes in the magnitude and phase of the output voltage. The resonance frequency of the PEMS is obtained by monitoring the maximum of the phase shift of the output voltage. This measurement is accomplished all electrically i.e. electrical actuation and electrical sensing.

Piezoelectric layer may be constructed from any piezoelectric material including a lead free piezoelectric material such as NaK LiNbSbO hereinafter Sb NKNLN Sb NaK NbO LiTaO hereinafter Sb NKNLT Sr NaK NbO LiTaO Sr NKNLN Sr NaK NbO LiTaO Sr NKNLT SbSr NaK NbO LiTaO SrSb NKNLN SrSb NaK NbO LiTaO SbSr NKNLT solid solutions with BiK TiO BiNa TiO Ba ZrTi O BaTiO hereinafter BT BiK TiO hereinafter BKT BiNa TiO hereinafter BNT Ba ZrTi O hereinafter BZT Bi ZnTi O hereinafter BiZT NaK NbO hereinafter NKN BiScO PbTiOBaTiO BiK TiO hereinafter BKBT BiNa TiO BiK TiO hereinafter BNKT BiNa TiO BaTiO hereinafter BNBT BiNa TiO Ba ZrTi O hereinafter BNBZT and BiNa TiO BaTiO BiK TiO hereinafter BNBK .

In a preferred embodiment the piezoelectric layer is fabricated from highly piezoelectric lead magnesium niobate lead titanate films e.g. Pb MgNb O PbTiO PMN PT PMN PT highly piezoelectric lead zirconate titanate PZT films or high piezoelectric lead free films. Additionally piezoelectric layer may be fabricated in any form preferably having free standing film geometry to enhance domain wall motion and piezoelectric performance.

A piezoelectric PMN PT layer may be fabricated using a precursor suspension method. Submicron crystalline PMN powder is first prepared by dispersing Mg OH coated NbOparticles in a lead acetate ethylene glycol solution followed by calcination at about 800 C. The crystalline PMN powder was subsequently suspended in a lead titanate PT precursor solution containing lead acetate and titanium isopropoxide in ethylene glycol to form a PMN PT precursor powder which can be sintered at a temperature as low as about 900 C.

The resulting suspensions have previously been used to formulate PMN PT freestanding films of about 8 75 m thick upon sintering at 1000 C. Preferably the thickness is about 1 m 127 m more preferably less than about 50 m and most preferably less than about 8 m. The precursor suspension method may also be used to produce freestanding PMN PT films having a thickness of less than 8 m or larger than 75 m. Typically the freestanding PMN PT films have femtogram sensitivity of at least 2 10g Hz dielectric constants greater than 1000 saturated polarization of about 30 C cm remnant polarization of 25 C cmand a Q value as high as 300 and as low as 20. Therefore PMN PT microcantilevers are capable of generating higher mode resonance peaks resulting in enhanced sensitivity detection.

Further PMN PT freestanding films with thicknesses of 8 m or 22 m were found to exhibit an extremely high electric field enhanced piezoelectric dcoefficient of 2000 m V at E 10 kV cm as shown in which is about 7 times that of the bulk PMN PT and commercial PZT and which also exceeds the piezoelectric coefficient of specially cut single crystalline PMN PT. The direction of the triangles in indicate whether the results were obtained when the field was ramped up or down. The piezoelectric coefficient dis calculated according to Equation 1 

In another embodiment a PEMS may be constructed from highly piezoelectric lead zirconate titanate PZT . PZT SiOPEMS may be configured to form microcantilevers less than 20 m long having attogram sensitivity of 10g Hz a piezoelectric layer thickness of about 1.0 m 8 m more preferably less than about 4 m about 1.5 m 2 m or less than about 2 m and a dielectric constant of at least 1600 more preferably at least 1900. The PZT PEMS is capable of exhibiting up to four resonance peaks with quality values Q ranging from a minimum of about 20 to between 120 and 320. PZT SiOPEMS may also be configured to have a thickness of less than 2 m and a length of less than 30 m. The dielectric constants can be further raised to above 2000 and up to about 3000 by any standard method of doping the piezoelectric layer.

A PZT SiOpiezoelectric layer of film may be formed on silicon wafers and attached to a substrate such as glass to form an array. It is also possible to fabricate thin PZT films of 1.0 to 2.0 m in thickness on a variety of different substrates using a sol gel process. depicts a preferred micro fabrication procedure for constructing PZT SiOpiezoelectric microcantilever sensors.

One advantage of this invention is the ability to construct a microcantilever from one piece of PZT SiOfilm without having to separately attach the non piezoelectric and piezoelectric layers . Because the cantilevers thus fabricated have clean interfaces between the PZT SiOlayer and the electrodes the cantilevers exhibit high Q values. The resultant clean geometry of the microcantilever increases sensitivity and facilitates the manufacturing process.

The self actuating and self detecting PEMS of the present invention overcomes a significant problem of the prior art miniaturizing microcantilevers without losing high resonance peaks. In the present invention the novel PMN and PZT micro fabrication methods produce thin piezoelectric PEMS having enhanced sensitivity as evidenced by the large dielectric constants piezoelectric coefficients and Q values.

Q values are an excellent indicator of cantilever sensitivity. Although it is expected that the Q value of silicon microcantilevers decreases with cantilever size shows that the Q value of a commercial PZT based piezoelectric microcantilever remains approximately the same even though the microcantilever length varies over two orders of magnitude due to the polycrystalline composition of the piezoelectric layer . The piezoelectric layer of the present invention therefore utilizes polycrystalline compositions such as PMN PT and PZT in order to miniaturize PEMS without losing sensitivity. For example by reducing PZT PEMS to a length scale of 300 m and 50 PMN PT and PZT PEMS are capable of attaining detection sensitivity greater than 10and 10g Hz respectively. Freestanding PMN PT PEMS 500 700 m in length are capable of achieving Q values higher than 300. Additionally PEMS with a thickness of less than 5 m and length of less 120 m long may achieve a sensitivity better than 10g Hz.

To further increase sensitivity and expedite the detection process the PEMS may be immersed in a flowing solution for in solution detection. The PEMS is preferably situated in a flow cell system to enable tailored rapid and simultaneous detection and quantification of multiple organic compounds or molecules.

Another means for further enhancing sensitivity is by increasing humidity. The mass change per unit area per percent humidity change of PZT PEMS is estimated to be about 1.2 10g Hz mm humidity. The sensitivity of PMN PEMS by comparison is known to be about three times greater than that of PZT PEMS.

The resultant PEMS are chemically inert thermally stable and miniaturized to enhance sensitivity. They function by binding target molecules that react to the receptors immobilized on the electrodes. The corresponding change in mass shifts the mechanical resonance frequency of the microcantilever. The PEMS is capable of detecting these shifts in resonance frequency by monitoring the i mode flexural resonance frequency f which is related to the effective spring constant K and effective mass M of the piezoelectric cantilever at the tip as shown in Equation 2.

These PEMS may be used for various sensing applications such as solid liquid transition detectors liquid viscosity and density sensors mass sensors for in situ and in water detection. PEMS may generally be used for detection of any molecule or organic compound.

The PEMS technology may be particularly promising for the detection of bioterrorism agents. Antibody receptors specific to at least one bioterrorism agent may be bound to an electrode and used to detect the presence of a bioterrorism antigen. In addition to identifying the existence of a bioterrorism agent it may also be used to quantify the concentration of the agent.

Additionally PEMS may be useful in the health sciences as a diagnostic instrument. It may be used as a means for early detection of cancers and other diseases. It may also be used to monitor the progress of the disease throughout treatment. The PEMS may be incorporated in a portable device and used as a noninvasive means for testing blood and other bodily fluids for various pathogens infectious agents and other markers indicative of disease.

PEMS may also be particularly applicable for the food science and food manufacturing industry. PEMS may be used as a diagnostic instrument for detecting pathogens or other disease agents present in food supplies and prepared or processed foods. Additionally it may also be useful in manufacturing plants and food service industries as a means of intermittently checking food products during different phases of food preparations thereby preventing contamination and the spread of bacterial or viral diseases such as and

PMN PT Sn PEMS were used in situ to detect the presence of BA a bioterrorism agent. Two PEMS PEMS A 500 m long 800 m wide with a 22 m thick PMN PT layer a 20 m thick tin layer and a 1 10g Hz mass detection sensitivity and PEMS B 350 m long 800 m wide with an 8 m thick PMN PT layer a 6 m thick tin layer and a 3 10g Hz mass detection sensitivity were inserted in a flow cell through which a solution containing BA was pumped.

The experiment demonstrates that in phosphate buffered saline PBS solution the PEMS were capable of achieving Q values ranging from 50 to 75. PEMS A exhibited resonance frequency shifts of 2100 200 1100 100 and 700 100 Hz at concentrations of 20000 2000 and 200 spores ml or 16000 1600 and 160 total spores respectively. PEMS B exhibited resonance frequency shifts of 2400 200 1500 200 500 150 and 200 100 Hz at concentrations of 20000 2000 100 and 45 spores ml or 16000 1600 80 and 36 total spores respectively.

The PEMS were fabricated from PMN PT freestanding films 22 m and 8 m in thickness and electrically insulated with methyltrimethoxysilane MTMS coatings on the tin surface. A 30 nm thick nickel layer with a 15 30 nm thick chromium bonding layer was first deposited on one side of the PMN PT freestanding film by evaporation using an E gun evaporator as the electrode. A tin non piezoelectric layer was then electroplated on the nickel surface at a rate of 0.5 m minute using tin sulfate in a plating solution. A 150 nm thick platinum on a 10 nm thick titanium layer was evaporated on the other face of the film as the other electrode. The resultant PMN PT Sn bilayer was embedded in wax and cut into the cantilever shape with a wire saw. Gold wires were attached to the top and bottom electrodes using conductive glue for electrical connection. The PMN PT Sn strips were finally glued to a glass slide or a plastic substrate with epoxy to form the microcantilever geometry.

To insulate the tin electrode of these PMN PT Sn PEMS the PEMS were first soaked in a diluted 1 40 in water piranha solution one part of 98 sulfuric acid with one part of 30 hydrogen peroxide at 20 C. for 2 mM. Methyltrimethoxysilane MTMS was then spin coated on the tin surface at 2000 rpm and cross linked pH 9.5 for 2 hr twice to form two MTMS coatings on the tin surface.

For antibody immobilization the platinum electrode was cleaned with a 1 40 diluted piranha solution for 2 min followed by soaking the PEMS in a 2 mM 3 mercaptopropionic acid MPA for 2 hr to form an MPA monolayer on the Pt surface. The carboxyl group of the MPA was then activated by a solution of 2 mM N Ethyl N 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide EDC and 5 mM N hydroxysuccinimide NHS in water to allow covalent bonding of primary amines on the anti BA spore antibody to the MPA on the platinum surface.

Anti BA IgG antibodies were then immobilized on the platinum electrode of the PMN PT layer by first mounting the insulated PEMS with activated MPA in a specifically designed holder and vertically inserting the PEMS into the center of a custom polycarbonate flow cell 1 mm wide by 1 mm high by 10 mm long with its major faces parallel to the flow and capable of holding a liquid volume of 0.8 ml. A baseline of pure phosphate buffered saline PBS solution was run through the flow cell for several minutes before injecting a 600 nM antibody solution into the flow cell for 40 min after which the flow system was once again rinsed with pure PBS. The flow rate used for antibody immobilization and subsequent BA binding was 1 ml min which corresponded to a Reynolds number of 1.6 and a flow speed of 2.5 cm s over the PEMS surface.

Subsequently 0.8 ml of the desired concentration of ultraviolet UV killed Sterne strain 7702 BA spores were injected into the flow system and run for 30 minutes. BA spores were then release from the sensor surface in a mixture of glycine and HCl at pH of 2.5 for 7 min. The total volume of the liquid utilized was only 0.8 ml thus the actual number of spores available for detection by the cantilever is actually only 80 of the indicated concentration. Scanning electron microscopy SEM was performed to confirm spore detection and sensitivity calculations.

The experimentally obtained mass detection sensitivities are more than 100 times more sensitive than the theoretical mass sensitivity values suggested by considering simply the mass loading effect alone.

A PZT SiOpiezoelectric cantilever sensor PECS 0.5 mm long and 2 mm wide 5 MHz QCM and various PMN PT PEMS were tested for in situ detection of prostate specific antigen PSA . The tip of each cantilever were partially immersed in PSA solutions of 26.1 17.5 8.76 4.38 and 2.19 g ml to a depth of approximately 1 mm for approximately 30 minutes. The tip was immersed in a vertical orientation in order to ensure that there was no nonspecific binding due to gravity. Between detections the antibody surface of each cantilever was regenerated by a brief dip in HCl glycine solution.

The QCM sensor exhibited a resonance frequency shift of 45 Hz for antibody immobilization PECS exhibited a resonance frequency shift of 450 Hz. Using the QCM resonance frequency value and the Sauerbrey equation the mass change per unit area due to the antibody immobilization was determined to be 3.5 10g mm. In comparison the detection sensitivity for a piezoelectric cantilever sensor shown in was determined to be approximately 3 10g Hz. and Table 2 shows the detection curves for the piezoelectric cantilever and demonstrates that the cantilever is only capable of detecting PSA at 4 g ml and above.

By comparison the sensitivities of various PMN PEMS were determined by subjecting the PEMS to a controlled 70 humidity and 16 C. environment in which they were immersed in a flowing PSA solution of various concentrations. shows that a 340 m long 750 m wide and 8 m thick PMN PT Cu microcantilever represented in by square data points was found to have a sensitivity of 2 10g Hz a 900 m long 750 m wide and 8 m thick PMN PT Cu microcantilever represented by triangle data points in was found to have a sensitivity 3 10g Hz and an 800 m long 750 m wide and 22 m thick PMN PT microcantilever represented by circle data points in was found to have a sensitivity of 5 10g Hz. Based on these sensitivities it is possible to easily detect PSA at 3.5 ng ml with a resonance frequency over 500 Hz. Also plotted in are the in situ resonance frequency shifts obtained from the PZT glass cantilever which are represented by the cross shaped data points. The intercept of the dashed lines with the 50 Hz base line suggests the concentration limit of these microcantilevers. For the in situ results of the intercept was determined to be the detection limit of the PZT glass cantilever.

In situ detection is therefore predicted to have background resonance frequency uncertainties of no more than 50 Hz. Using 50 Hz as a cutoff at the base line of the extrapolated detection limit was 0.1 ng ml for microcantilever D with 2 10g Hz sensitivity which was already as good as or better than the sensitivities of commercial PSA testing techniques while the present in situ measurements have the advantages of rapid detection and low cost.

There exist a number of means for immobilizing various receptors on various different electrode surfaces. The immobilization methods may differ depending upon the receptor to be bound on the electrode surface.

For example BA antigens may be immobilized on a lead surface by cleaning a platinum electrode with a 1 40 diluted piranha solution for 2 min soaking the PEMS in a 2 mM 3 mercaptopropionic acid MPA for 2 hr to form an MPA monolayer on the electrode surface and activating the carboxyl group of the MPA using a solution of 2 mM N Ethyl N 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide EDC and 5 mM N hydroxysuccinimide NHS in water to allow covalent bonding of primary amines on the anti BA spore antibody to the MPA monolayer.

A method for PSA receptor immobilization on a lead surface includes the steps of immersing the microcantilever in a solution containing 1 part 30 HO concentrated HSOand 29 parts water for 2 min rinsing with distilled water and immersing in a 1 mM MPA aqueous solution overnight. The microcantilever tip is then rinsed with distilled water and activated by immersing in a solution containing 5 mg ml 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropy carbodimide hydrochloride EDC 5 mg ml N hydroxysulfosuccinimide NHS and distilled water for 30 min. 1 l of a 0.1 mg ml solution containing anti PSA in PBS at a pH of 7.4 was then coated on the cantilever surface for 30 min.

scFv receptors may be immobilized on a gold surface by binding activated MPA to the amine of lysine in the scFv. The immobilization method includes the steps of coating MPA on the gold coated cantilever tip activating the MPA with a solution of 5 mg ml 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropy carbodimide hydrochloride EDC 5 mg ml N hydroxysulfosuccinimide NHS and distilled water for 30 min and partially immersing the microcantilever in the scFv solution. Alternatively it may be possible to utilize longer mercaptoundecanoic acid MUA in order to optimize the efficiency.

scFv receptors may also be immobilized on a gold surface by using Cu ions to bind to His6 tag of scFv. In this method the gold coated microcantilever tip is first cleaned with Piranha solution for 10 minutes and rinsed with distilled water. The gold surface is then treated with MPTS MPA mercaptopropionic acid or MUA mercaptoundecanoic acid to form a monolayer on the gold coated sensor surface. Preferably the gold surface is treated by immersed in a solution of 1 mM 11 Mercaptoundecanoic Acid MUA and ethanol for 3 hours and rinsed with distilled water. The cantilever is then immersed in a 2 mM Cu ClO aqueous solution for 10 min to adsorb Cu on the MUA self assembled monolayer and form a MPA Cu composite monolayer. A monolayer of Cu ions will bind to the His6 tag at the C terminal of scFv. The cantilever may then be partially immersed in the scFv solution for in situ monitoring the binding of the scFv to the Cu ions on the cantilever tip surface.

Another immobilization method of scFv to a SiOsurface entails cleaning an electrode surface using strong acid reacting the surface with Glycidoxypropyl trimethoxysilane GOPTS to generate epoxy groups. The surface is then reacted with amine groups of lysine in scFv. Alternatively it may be possible to utilize other bifunctional linkers such as alkoxysilane PEG carboxyl on the SiOsurface. The surface is then treated with Cu ClO 6HO or CuClto create Cu ions on the surface that to bind the His6 tag or cysteine tag at the c terminal of the scFv. The length of the PEG may vary to obtain optimal antigen receptor binding.

The PEMS of the present invention may also be utilized for simultaneous detection of multiple antigens using a piezoelectric cantilever array. In an experiment three piezoelectric cantilever sensors were utilized for simultaneous detection of three proteins. One sensor was coated with antibodies specific to PSA a second sensor was coated with scFv specific to HER2 and a third was coated with antibodies specific to gp120. and show the resonance frequency shifts of three PECS over time in various solutions one coated with scFv of HER2 one coated with an antibody to PSA and one coated with an antibody of gp120. shows the detection results when the PECS are placed in a HER2 solution of 23 ug ml. shows the detection results when the PECS are placed in a PSA solution of 18 g ml and shows the detection results when the PECS are placed in a gp120 solution of 100 g ml. shows that only the PECS coated with scFv of HER2 responded to the HER2 solution. Similarly only the PECS coated with antibodies to PSA responded to the PSA solution of and only the PECS coated with antibodies to gp120 responded to the gp120 solution.

The experiment demonstrated that only sensors coated with antibodies specific to the antigen solution reacted in each of the three solutions. The experiment proves that a cantilever array can perform in situ rapid simultaneous detection of multiple antigens. A portable device may therefore be used to carry multiple sensors for multiple antigen detection in a solution.

A number of methods and electrically insulating materials may be used to insulate the electrodes of a PEMS. Parylene and MTMS in particular were separately coated on PZT PEMS and evaluated for dampening impedance.

A PMN PT piezoelectric layer or film may be fabricated using a precursor suspension method. Submicron crystalline PMN powder was prepared by dispersing Mg OH coated NbOparticles in a lead acetate ethylene glycol solution followed by calcination at about 800 C. The crystalline PMN powder was subsequently suspended in a PT precursor solution containing lead acetate and titanium isopropoxide in ethylene glycol to form a PMN PT precursor powder which can be sintered at a temperature as low as about 900 C.

The PMN PT films were then polarized in order to obtain high piezoelectric coefficients. Before polarization the orientations of domains were random with no net polarization. After polarization many domains were aligned in the direction of the applied electric field resulting in a finite polarization. Although polycrystalline materials are not easily aligned in comparison to single crystal materials PMN PT films were geometrically structured so as to facilitate polarization alignment within the plane of the film.

The resulting freestanding PMN PT films were then electroplated on one side with a sputtered 30 nm thick nickel platinum Ti Pt layer. A copper layer of appropriate thickness was then electroplated on the Pt surface to create a non piezoelectric layer followed by the deposition of the Ti Pt electrode on the other face of the film. A PMN Pt Cu bi layer was then embedded in wax and cut or chemically etched to form a cantilever shape with a wire saw.

A particularly advantageous aspect of this method is the ability to construct a microcantilever from one piece of PMN PT film without having to separately attach the non piezoelectric and piezoelectric layers facilitating the manufacturing process. Because the cantilevers thus fabricated had a clean geometry and clean interfaces between the PMN PT layer and the electrodes cantilever sensitivity was heightened as demonstrated by Q values as high as 300.

The resulting suspensions have previously been used to formulate PMN PT freestanding films of about 8 75 m thick upon sintering at 1000 C. Typically the freestanding PMN PT films have femtogram sensitivity of at least 2 10g Hz dielectric constants greater than 1000 saturated polarization of about 30 C cm remnant polarization of 25 C cmand a Q value as high as 300. Therefore PMN PT microcantilevers are capable of generating higher mode resonance peaks resulting in enhanced sensitivity detection.

A PZT SiOpiezoelectric layer of film may be formed on silicon wafers and attached to a substrate such as glass to form an array. depicts a preferred micro fabrication procedure for constructing PZT SiOpiezoelectric microcantilever sensors. A low stress SiOsubstrate 2 m in thickness was first deposited on front and back sides of a 100 oriented silicon wafer by steam oxidation at 800 C. A first side of the SiOconstituted the non piezoelectric layer of the microcantilever and a second side of the SiOformed an etching mask wherein the silicon wafer was wet etched using KOH.

A 400 thick TiObonding layer was then deposited by reactive sputtering of Ti followed by the deposition of a 1500 thick platinum electrode. Reactive sputtering of Ti was carried out under 15 mTorr of 80 oxygen and 20 helium. To prepare for deposition of the platinum electrode a stage or platform was heated to 650 C. at a rate of 5 C. min. The RF power was adjusted to the expected deposition rate. After deposition the stage was cooled to room temperature at a rate of 5 C. min to avoid residue stress. Sputtering of the platinum bottom electrode began when the stage reached room temperature. The resultant platinum bottom electrode was preferably about 1500 in thickness.

A 1.5 m thick PZT layer was then deposited on the Pt TiO SiO Si substrate using a sol gel method with repeated spin coating and heat treatment steps. According to the sol gel method titanium isopropoxide and lead acetate were dissolved in ethylene glycol and zirconium n propoxide in 2 propanol. The dissolved components were mixed to obtain a PZT precursor solution. The precursor solution also contained a 50 excess of lead to compensate for lead loss during repeated heat treatment. The PZT thin films were then deposited by repeated spin coating on a Pt TiO SiOsubstrate followed by pyrolysis at 350 C. for 12 min and sintering at 650 C. for 2 hours after every 5 depositions. The Pt TiO SiOsubstrate was formed by depositing a 2 m thick low stress SiOon a silicon wafer through steam oxidation depositing 40 nm of Ti on the SiOby sputtering and oxidization at 800 C. and depositing 150 nm Pt by sputtering to prevent undesired interfacial reaction and diffusion. The TiObuffer and a SiOlayer having a thickness larger than 0.5 m together effectively eliminated diffusion between the PZT layer and the substrate.

After forming the PZT layer a first electrode Pt Ti or Au Cr was deposited by E gun evaporation in high vacuum 2 10torr or lower to avoid oxidation of metal particularly oxidation of the Cr layer. E gun evaporation was used because it is gentler than sputtering or thermal evaporation and avoids damaging the PZT layer. The thickness of the resultant Ti or Cr bonding layer was approximately 5 40 nm and the resultant Pt or Au electrode layer was approximately 100 200 nm thick. A nickel layer was deposited on the top electrode to form a hard mask for protecting the top electrode and the underlying PZT during dry etching. The Ni and top electrode were patterned using an over hang lift off process. LOR10B and SPR3012 photoresists are recommended for executing the over hang lift off process and the thickness of the undercut photoresist LOR was about 0.8 to 1.2 m approximately 1.5 times larger than the metal layer. The selectivity or etching rate ratio of PZT to Ni was nearly 5 1. The thickness of the resultant Ni layer was about 0.3 0.5 m depending on the PZT thickness.

The exposed PZT and TiO Pt bottom electrode was patterned by a chlorine based inductively coupled plasma ICP dry etching process using a chlorine etching gas to expose the SiOand 150 sccm flow rate. The pressure of the etching chamber was set to below 10 mTorr. The RF power was adjusted to the etching rate. Since the PZT is a ceramic material and the nickel etching mask is stable at high temperatures a high RF power of about 400 W is recommended for PZT dry etching. The selectivity ratios of the PZT dry etching process were 5 1 for Ni and 8 1 for Pt. The etching mask for the bottom electrode was a thick photoresist such as one in the SPR220 series. Because the etching mask was a photoresist a low RF power was recommended for this etching process. Silver glue was used to fill spaces between the sample and the stage to help dissipate heat during etching. For every 5 min of etching a 20 min cooling period was required. By keeping the etching temperature below 120 C. the PR was easily removed with acetone after etching.

The silicon dioxide on the second side was patterned by photolithography and the exposed silicon dioxide was etched by CF CHFbased reactive ion etching RIE . After the silicon dioxide etching is finished the whole first side was sealed by black wax and the sample was placed in a 45 potassium hydroxide KOH solution. The temperature of the solution was set to 55 60 C. and the KOH was used to etch the exposed silicon with the remaining silicon dioxide as an etching mask.

After etching the black wax was dissolved using trichloroethylene TCE and the front side was cleaned. The exposed silicon dioxide was removed on the front side by a CF CHF based reactive ion etching RIE . The first electrode and second electrode work together because the mask and the selectivity ratios are very high. If desired the etching duration may be increased to ensure that all the silicon dioxide is removed and the cantilevers are released. After rinsing with acetone 2 proponal and deionized water free standing PZT SiOpiezoelectric microcantilever sensors were obtained.

Mercaptopropylsilane MPTS was investigated for its ability to function both as an electrical insulator and as receptor immobilizer. The results established that MPTS is an effective insulator and immobilizer enabling the detection of the HER2 antibody both in solution and in the presence of BSA.

To prepare the MPTS coated PEMS a PMN PT tin PEMS was first soaked in a diluted 1 100 in water piranha solution containing two parts 98 sulfuric acid and one part of 30 hydrogen peroxide at 20 C. for 1 min to clean the tin and gold surfaces. Next the PEMS was submerged in a beaker containing a 40 mM solution of MPTS in ethanol and the beaker was covered with paraffin film to prevent ethanol evaporation. After 4 hours the PEMS was rinsed with DI water and submerged in a 0.01 M solution of NaOH overnight for cross linking. The PEMS was then soaked in DI water for 1 hour and dried overnight in a vacuum oven at 762 mm Hg to ensure all the water was removed. The PEMS was then submerged in a 1 volume percent solution of MPTS in ethanol titrated to a pH 4.5 with acetic acid. The solution was covered with paraffin film to prevent ethanol evaporation and the PEMS was allowed to soak for 8 hours. The PEMS was again soaked in DI water for 1 hour and dried overnight in a vacuum oven at 762 mm Hg.

To immobilize the scFv receptors on the PEMS surface sulfosuccinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate Sulfo SMCC was first mixed with scFv to form a peptide bond between a primary amine of the scFv and the NHS ester of the Sulfo SMCC as depicted in . To effectively bind SMCC to scFv 5 mM SMCC was mixed with 400 nM scFv for 2 hrs. The unreacted SMCC was then removed by repeated microcentrifugation with a 10 kD filter a total of 4 times. The MPTS coated PEMS was then soaked in the scFv bound bound SMCC solution.

For HER2 detection the scFv immobilized PMN PT tin PEMS was immersed in a home built flow cell with a peristaltic pump. First PBS was allowed to flow across the conjugated surface for 10 minutes in order to obtain a background reading. Next a blocking solution of 10 mg ml of BSA in PBS was allowed to flow over the surface of the cantilever until no significant deviations are observed in the cantilevers resonant frequency. The cantilever was then gently rinsed with a solution of TWEEN 20 followed by PBS. PBS was then allowed to flow across the surface of the cantilever for 10 minutes to ensure that there was no background drift. The flow cell contained 3 ml of HER2 solution. The detection was carried out with two faces of the PEMS tangential to the flow at a flow rate of 0.5 ml min. After each detection the HER2 was released from the PEMS surface by flushing with a glycine HCl solution having a pH of about 2.5 or a supersaturated solution of NaCl. Following the release the PEMS was then exposed to a suspension of a different concentration for another detection run.

The PEMS is capable of in situ detection applications. A one sided PEMS was able to detect the presence of HER2 in the presence of Bovine Serum Albumin BSA .

The tin surface of a PMN PT Sn PEMS was insulated using MTMS. The scFv receptors were immobilized only on the platinum side of the electrode by first coating the platinum surface with an activated MPA self assembly monolayer to bind to a primary amine of the scFv.

A one sided PMN PT tin PEMS was found capable of detecting of HER2 at a concentration of 1 ng ml in the presence of 1 mg ml of BSA in a 30 ml solution flowing at a rate of 1 ml min. shows a resonance increase in the presence of HER2 indicating that the PEMS was capable of detecting 1 ng ml of HER2 in 1 mg ml of BSA.

The BSA did not adhere to the MPA surface to the same degree as compared to the MPTS SMCC surface of and . In the presence of 1 mg ml BSA the resonance frequency of the PMN PT tin PEMS was stable as shown at t 150 of . In comparison in the presence of 1 ng ml of HER2 and 1 mg ml of BSA the resonance frequency of the PEMS increased by about 200 Hz during a 160

A 900 m long and 500 m wide PMN PT Cu PEMS having an 8 m thick PMN PT layer and a 3 m thick copper layer was used to detect the presence of HER2 in diluted fetal bovine serum FBS .

The PEMS was prepared using mercaptopropyltrimethoxysilane MPS as an insulation layer and covalent receptor conjugation. Biotin was covalently bound to the sulfhydryl of the MPS using maleimide PEO biotin Pierce . Avidin was subsequently attached to the biotin by soaking the surface of the cantilever in a 1 mg ml solution of neutravidin Pierce . Sulfosuccinimidyl 6 biotinamido 6 hexanamido hexanoate Pierce was used to attach biotin to the primary amine in a scFv. The avidin coated PEMS was then submerged in the solution containing the biotinylated scFv for 60 minutes at 4 C. The cantilever was subsequently soaked in a 3 BSA solution for 2 hours to facilitate blocking of unreacted areas. The PEMS was then rinsed with a 1 BSA solution and a 1 Tween 20 solution.

For HER2 detection the scFv immobilized PEMS was then immersed in a flow cell containing about 6 ml of liquid with a peristaltic pump. After conjugation the PEMS was exposed to a solution containing diluted 1 40 bovine serum and HER2 in one of the following concentrations about 110 pg ml 50 pg ml 30 pg ml and 10 pg ml. shows the resonance frequency shift versus time for the PEMS. As can be seen the PEMS yielded a resonance frequency shift of about 2800 200 1000 100 140 100 and 10 100 Hz at t 50 minutes for 110 50 30 and 10 ng ml HER2 concentrations respectively. The results indicate the PEMS was able to detect breast cancer markers in diluted serum with a concentration limit of 30 pg ml.

An array of three millimeter long PZT glass PEMS were used to assess the binding ability of a receptor for its ligand. The performance of 3 receptors B1 scFv H3 scFv and Herceptin was compared using an array of three identical PZT glass PEMS insulated with MPS. A heterobifunctional cross linking agent sulfosuccinimidyl 4 N maleimidomethyl cyclohexane 1 carboxylate was used to covalently attach the receptor to the MPS surface. After receptor immobilization the cantilevers were blocked using a 3 BSA solution for 1 hour and then rinsed with a 1 BSA solution and a 1 Tween 20 solution.

The three PEMS were all completely submerged in the same 6 ml flow cell. A 1 40 fetal bovine serum diluted in PBS containing a known spiked amount of HER2 ECD was introduced into the flow cell. The sample was flowed through the system at a rate of 0.7 ml minute. shows the resultant PEMS detection of HER2 in solutions containing diluted 1 40 fetal bovine serum and HER2 in concentrations of 6 ng ml 60 ng ml or 600 ng ml. In Table 3 the resonance frequency shift is given at t 60 minutes. According to and Table 3 the three identical PEMS showed that Herceptin consistently had larger frequency shifts suggesting that Herceptin can be detected using PEMS at a lower concentration limit as compared to B1 scFv and H3 scFv.

An array of millimeter long PZT glass PEMS each having a width of about 300 600 m and including a 1 mm long PZT layer and a 2 mm long glass tip as shown in was used to detect the water borne parasite CP at concentration levels of 0.1 CP ml in a volume of 60 ml i.e. 6 total CPs in the 60 ml of water. The PEMS were insulated with MPS and conjugated with the anti CP IgM using the bi functional linker SMCC.

In the experiment two arrays were used one control array whose PEMS were coated with an irrelevant protein BSA not shown served as control and one experimental array whose PEMS were coated with anti CP IgM. A CP sample was introduced to the PEMS array at a flow rate of about 1 ml min. shows the resonance frequency shift as a function of time for each of the four experimental PEMS coated with anti CP IgM i.e. C1 C2 C3 and C4. As can be seen the control array showed no resonance frequency shift while C1 C2 and C3 showed several hundred Hz resonance frequency shifts indicating that a PEMS array may be used for CP detection at very low concentrations based on the positive response from any of the PEMS which indicates the presence of a target pathogen.

A 40 m long PZT SiOPEMS as shown in was found to have an improved sensitivity of about 10g Hz with resonance peak Q values as high as 300 in a humidity controlled environment. shows the resonance frequency spectra of the PEMS corresponding to varying humidity. The resonance frequency was found to decrease with an increasing relative humidity due to the adsorption of water molecules on the sensor surface. Therefore it is possible to increase sensitivity with very small PEMS.

The resultant sensitivity of 6 10g Hz demonstrates the feasibility of further reducing PEMS size while increasing sensitivity when compared to the millimeter sized commercial PZT PEMS having a sensitivity of about 10g Hz and 300 800 m long PMN PT PEMS having a sensitivity of about 10to 10g Hz.

Having described the preferred embodiments of the invention which are intended to be illustrative and not limiting it is noted that modifications and variations can be made by persons skilled in the art in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that changes may be made in the particular embodiments of the invention disclosed which are within the scope and spirit of the invention as outlined by the appended claims. Having thus described the invention with the details and particularity required by the patent laws the intended scope of protection is set forth in the appended claims.

