---

title: Transistors with a gate insulation layer having a channel depleting interfacial charge
abstract: A metal-insulator-semiconductor field-effect transistor (MISFET) includes a SiC layer with source and drain regions of a first conductivity type spaced apart therein. A first gate insulation layer is on the SiC layer and has a net charge along an interface with the SiC layer that is the same polarity as majority carriers of the source region. A gate contact is on the first gate insulation layer over a channel region of the SiC layer between the source and drain regions. The net charge along the interface between the first gate insulation layer and the SiC layer may deplete majority carriers from an adjacent portion of the channel region between the source and drain regions in the SiC layer, which may increase the threshold voltage of the MISFET and/or increase the electron mobility therein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09343540&OS=09343540&RS=09343540
owner: Cree, Inc.
number: 09343540
owner_city: Durham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140814
---
The present application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 548 763 filed Aug. 27 2009 assigned to the assignee of the present application the disclosure and content of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present invention was made with support from the Department of the Army contract number W911NF 04 2 0021. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to microelectronic devices and more particularly to transistors for example metal insulator semiconductor field effect transistors MISFETs and related fabrication processes.

Power semiconductor devices are widely used to regulate large current high voltage and or high frequency signals. Modern power devices are generally fabricated from monocrystalline silicon semiconductor material. One widely used power device is the power Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor MOSFET . In a power MOSFET a control signal is supplied to a gate electrode that is separated from the semiconductor surface by an intervening silicon dioxide insulator. Current conduction occurs via transport of majority carriers without the presence of minority carrier injection that is used in bipolar transistor operation.

MOSFETS can be formed on a silicon carbide SiC layer. Silicon carbide SiC has a combination of electrical and physical properties that make it attractive as a semiconductor material for high temperature high voltage high frequency and or high power electronic circuits. These properties include a 3.2 eV bandgap a 4 MV cm electric field breakdown a 4.9 W cm K thermal conductivity and a 2.0 10cm s electron drift velocity.

Consequently these properties may allow silicon carbide based MOSFET power devices to operate at higher temperatures higher power levels higher frequencies e.g. radio S band X band and or with lower specific on resistance than silicon based MOSFET power devices. A power MOSFET fabricated in silicon carbide is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 506 421 to Palmour entitled Power MOSFET in Silicon Carbide and assigned to the assignee of the present invention.

Increasing the electron mobility of silicon carbide based MOSFETs may improve their power and frequency operational characteristics. Electron mobility is the measurement of how rapidly an electron is accelerated to its saturation velocity in the presence of an electric field. Semiconductor materials which have a high electron mobility are typically preferred because more current can be driven with a lower field resulting in faster response times when a field is applied.

In accordance with some embodiments a metal insulator semiconductor field effect transistor MISFET includes a SiC layer with source and drain regions of a first conductivity type spaced apart therein. A first gate insulation layer is on the SiC layer and has a net charge along an interface with the SiC layer that is the same polarity as majority carriers of the source region. A gate contact is on the first gate insulation layer over a channel region of the SiC layer between the source and drain regions.

The net charge along the interface between the first gate insulation layer and the SiC layer may deplete majority carriers from an adjacent portion of the channel region between the source and drain regions in the SiC layer which may increase the threshold voltage of the MISFET.

Fabrication of a metal insulator semiconductor field effect transistor MISFET can include providing a SiC layer having source and drain regions of a first conductivity type spaced apart therein. A first gate insulation layer is formed on the SiC layer that has a net charge along an interface with the SiC layer that is the same polarity as majority carriers of the source region. A gate contact on the first gate insulation layer is provided over a channel region of the SiC layer between the source and drain regions.

The invention is described more fully herein after with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the size and relative sizes of layers and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. It will be understood that when an element or layer is referred to as being on connected to or coupled to another element or layer it can be directly on connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer there are no intervening elements or layers present. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

It will be understood that although the terms first and second are used herein to describe various regions layers and or sections these regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms are only used to distinguish one region layer or section from another region layer or section. Thus a first region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second region layer or section and similarly a second region layer or section may be termed a first region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Furthermore relative terms such as lower or bottom or upper or top or lateral or vertical may be used herein to describe one element s relationship to another elements as illustrated in the Figures. It will be understood that relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in addition to the orientation depicted in the Figures. For example if the device in the Figures is turned over elements described as being on the lower side of other elements would then be oriented on upper sides of the other elements. The exemplary term lower can therefore encompasses both an orientation of lower and upper depending of the particular orientation of the figure. Similarly if the device in one of the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements would then be oriented above the other elements. The exemplary terms below or beneath can therefore encompass both an orientation of above and below.

Embodiments of the present invention are described herein with reference to cross section illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized embodiments of the present invention. As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus embodiments of the present invention should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. For example an implanted region illustrated as a rectangle will typically have rounded or curved features and or a gradient of implant concentration at its edges rather than a binary change from implanted to non implanted region. Likewise a buried region formed by implantation may result in some implantation in the region between the buried region and the surface through which the implantation takes place. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the precise shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

Some embodiments of the present invention are directed toward MISFET devices and related processes for fabricating MISFET devices and which may result in increasing the threshold voltage at which MISFET devices turn on and or increasing the electron mobility of MISFET devices.

The threshold voltage at which the MISFET turns on may be increased by providing a gate insulation layer on the SiC layer that has a net charge e.g. the negative charge symbols in along an interface with the SiC layer that is the same polarity as majority carriers of the source region . The net interfacial charge may thereby deplete charge carriers from the adjacent channel region and increase the threshold voltage of the MISFET .

The net charge can be created along the interface between a gate insulation layer and a carbon face of the SiC layer . Some embodiments of the present invention may arise from the present realization that a negative charge can be generated by forming a silicon dioxide layer on a SiC layer and that the net charge can be increased by increasing the amount of carbon atoms present along the crystal face of the SiC layer contacting the silicon dioxide layer. In particular a silicon dioxide layer can be formed on a carbon face e.g. substantially free of Si atoms along the face SiC layer to provide a net charge that is sufficiently strong to deplete majority charge carriers from an adjacent channel region of the SiC layer.

The silicon dioxide gate insulation layer may be formed by thermally oxidizing a surface of the SiC layer and or by depositing or otherwise providing a silicon dioxide layer on the channel region and heating the structure to form the interfacial charge therebetween. For example the gate insulating layer may be formed from silicon dioxide that is heated to react with the SiC layer to form the interfacial charge therebetween. In contrast when the silicon dioxide gate insulation layer is formed by oxidizing the SiC layer a second gate insulating layer may be formed from for example silicon nitride and or silicon oxynitride on the silicon dioxide gate insulation layer to increase the insulation between the gate contact and the SiC layer . In some exemplary embodiments a region along the interface between the gate insulation layer and the SiC layer that provides the net charge has a thickness no greater than 50 . These and other processes that may be used to form the a gate insulation layer having a net negative interfacial charge along the SiC layer are further described below with regard to .

The electron mobility of the channel region may be increased by increasing its dopant concentration and or by increasing the channel thickness vertical direction in which can decrease its electrical resistance and correspondingly increase its current capacity. However the level of increase in electron mobility that can be achieved through channel doping and or increasing thickness of the channel region can be constrained by a requirement for the MISFET to turn off with a very low preferably zero drain leakage current when the voltage potential between the gate contact and the source region V is less than a defined threshold voltage.

The interface between the gate insulation layer and the SiC layer has a net charge that is the same polarity as majority carriers of the doped channel region and biases charge carriers away from an adjacent portion of the doped channel region . Accordingly in the net negative charge e.g. the negative charge symbols in that has the same polarity as the majority charge carriers e.g. electrons in the doped channel region and which thereby depletes the majority charge carriers e.g. electrons from at least an adjacent portion of the doped channel region when the gate to source voltage V is zero. The doped channel region may therefore be fabricated to have a higher n type dopant concentration and or to have a greater thickness so as to provide higher mobility in the doped channel region and or to provide increased channel current capacity while allowing the MISFET to turn off when Vis less than the threshold voltage. The net fixed charge provided by the SiOgate insulation layer may alternatively or additionally be used to increase the threshold voltage of the MISFET .

The net negative charge per unit area may be regulated through the manufacturing processes to provide a value that is at least as high as a net charge generated by dopants in an adjacent unit area of the doped channel region . Thus for example a product of the doping concentration and thickness of the doped channel region should be equal to or less than the amount of negative fixed charge per unit area provided by the SiOgate insulation layer as defined by the following Equation 1  channel  channel Equation 1 

In Equation 1 the term N channel represents the n type dopant concentration e.g. cm of the doped channel region the term n channel represents the thickness e.g. cm of the doped channel region and the term Ng represents the negative fixed charge density cm provided by the SiOgate insulation layer .

In some embodiments the doped channel region may have a n type dopant concentration from about 1 10cmto about 1 10cmand a thickness from about 0.1 m to about 0.5 10 m. Thus according to Equation 1 the fixed negative charge provided by the SiOgate insulation layer may be configured to generate a net charge density that is in a range from about 3 10cmto about 6 10cm. The source and drain regions and each have a n type dopant concentration that is greater than the n type dopant concentration of the doped channel region and may for example have a n type dopant concentration from about 1 10cmto about 1 10cm.

As used herein p type p n type and n refer to regions that are defined by higher carrier concentrations than are present in adjacent or other regions of the same or another layer or substrate. Although various embodiments are described herein in the context of n type MISFETs that include n type channel n source and n drain regions on a SiC layer according to some other embodiments p type MISFETs structures are provided that include p type channel p source and p drain regions on a SiC layer. For p type MISFETs the gate insulation layer can be configured to provide a fixed positive charge along a surface facing a channel region that depletes charge carriers e.g. holes from at least an adjacent portion of the channel region when a zero voltage potential is present between the gate contact and the source region .

Various exemplary operational characteristics that may be provided when the MISFET shown in is in an off state in a partially on state and in a fully on state will now be described with reference to .

Referring to a mask pattern is formed on a portion of the n type layer that will become the doped channel region . Further n type dopants are implanted into the SiC layer to form the n source region and the n drain region with an n type dopant concentration from about 1 10cmto about 1 10cm. The implanted dopants may be annealed at a temperature from about 1300 C. to about 2000 C. to form the channel region the source region and the drain region . The mask pattern can be removed before or after the annealing.

The depth and concentration of the dopants that are implanted into the channel region depend upon the quantity of fixed negative charge that will be provided by the subsequently formed SiOgate insulation layer . As explained above a product of the doping concentration and thickness of the channel region should be equal to or less than the amount of negative fixed charge provided along the interface between the gate insulation layer and the SiC layer in accordance with some embodiments.

Referring to a silicon layer is formed across the SiC layer including the channel region such as by depositing a 300 thick layer of amorphous silicon. Referring to the silicon layer is oxidized to form a preliminary silicon dioxide layer and may also result in a small amount of oxidation of the C terminated SiC layer i.e. along a surface of the buried channel layer in the SiC layer . The silicon layer may for example be subjected to an oxidizing heat treatment in a dry oxygen ambient at 950 C. for 4.5 hours to form the preliminary silicon dioxide layer .

Referring to the preliminary silicon dioxide layer is subjected to an annealing heat treatment that anneals the preliminary silicon dioxide layer to form an annealed silicon dioxide layer and that controls the amount of negative charge provided by the annealed SiOgate insulation layer along the interface to the SiC layer . The annealing heat treatment may for example be carried out in a nitric oxide ambient at a temperature of 1100 C. for 2 hours. The composition of the ambient atmosphere the temperature and the duration of the annealing heat treatment can be regulated to control the amount of negative charge provided by the annealed SiOgate insulation layer .

Referring to the annealed silicon dioxide layer is patterned such as by a wet or dry etch process to form the silicon dioxide gate insulation layer .

Referring to a gate contact a source contact and a drain contact are formed by for example depositing and then patterning or more layers of nickel or other suitable metal. A body contact is formed on an opposite surface of the SiC layer by for example depositing a layer of nickel or other suitable metal.

The resulting structure may be further annealed such as at 850 C. to improve the ohmic contact between each of the contact structures and and the corresponding regions of the SiC layer . The temperature and duration of the annealing process can be regulated to provide a desired net negative charge that is generated along the interface between the SiOgate insulation layer and the SiC layer . The net negative charge may be controlled to be at least as high as a net charge generated by dopants in an adjacent unit area of the doped channel region which was described above for Equation 1 as being defined by the doping concentration and thickness of the channel region .

Comparing the C face MISFET of curve to the Si face MISFET of curve it is observed that the negative charge in the SiOgate insulation layer of the C face MISFET increased its threshold voltage Vth about 5 V compared to the Si face MISFET Vth about 0.8 V . Curves and illustrate that increasing the dopant concentration in the doped channel region causes a decrease in the threshold voltage of the Si face MISFETs although their threshold voltages remain above 0 V and causes an increase in the drain current. The negative fixed charge in the SiOgate insulation layer can therefore be used to enable the C face MISFET to be fabricated with a higher dopant concentration in the channel region to increase the channel current capacity while allowing the C face MISFET to turn off when the gate to source voltage is zero. The negative charge in the SiOgate insulation layer may alternatively or additionally be used to increase the threshold voltage of the C face MISFET.

Referring to a mask pattern is formed on a portion of the n type layer that will become the doped channel region . Further n type dopants are implanted into the SiC layer to form the n source region and the n drain region with an n type dopant concentration from about 1 10cmto about 1 10cm. The implanted dopants may be annealed at a temperature from about 1300 C. to about 2000 C. to form the channel region the source region and the drain region . The mask pattern can be removed before or after the annealing. As explained above a product of the doping concentration and thickness of the channel region should be equal to or less than the amount of negative fixed charge provided by the CSiOdepletion layer in accordance with some embodiments.

Referring to a surface of the SiC layer is oxidized including a surface of the channel region to form a first SiOgate insulation layer . The oxidation may be carried out by heating the SiC layer at a temperature range from about 800 C. to about 1200 C. The temperature and duration of the heating can be controlled to regulate the amount of negative charge generated by the first SiOgate insulation layer .

Referring to a second gate insulation layer is formed on the first SiOgate insulation layer . Referring to the resulting structure may be subjected to an annealing heat treatment that anneals the first gate insulation layer to control the amount of negative charge provided along the interface between the first gate insulation layer and the SiC layer . The annealing heat treatment may for example be carried out in a nitric oxide ambient at a temperature of 1100 C. for 2 hours. The composition of the ambient atmosphere the temperature and the duration of the annealing heat treatment can be regulated to control the net negative charge provided along the interface between the first gate insulation layer and the SiC layer .

Referring to the second gate insulation layer and the first gate insulation layer are patterned such as by a wet or dry etch process to form a multi layered stacked gate insulation layer between a subsequently formed gate contract and the SiC layer .

Other processes described above may be carried out on the resulting structure to provide a gate contact a source contact a drain contact and a body contact as describe above regarding for example. The resulting structure may be further annealed such as at 850 C. to improve the ohmic contact between each of the contact structures and and the corresponding regions of the SiC layer and to further increase the negative charge along the interface between the gate insulation layer and the SiC layer . The temperature and duration of the annealing process can be regulated to provide a desired net negative charge where the net negative charge may be controlled to be at least as high as a net charge generated by dopants in an adjacent unit area of the doped channel region which was describe above for Equation 1 as being defined by the doping concentration and thickness of the channel region .

In the drawings and specification there have been disclosed typical preferred embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are employed they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation the scope of the invention being set forth in the following claims.

