---

title: Portable device with circuit board mounted radiator
abstract: A portable electronic device is provided, which includes a circuit board, and a radiator arranged along an edge of the circuit board on one side of the circuit board.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509050&OS=09509050&RS=09509050
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd
number: 09509050
owner_city: 
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20141008
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 a to Korean Patent Application Serial No. 10 2014 0049140 which was filed in the Korean Intellectual Property Office on Apr. 24 2014 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to a portable electronic device and in particular to a body wearable portable electronic device having for example a communication function.

An electronic device may output information stored therein as texts sounds or images. As the degree of integration of electronic devices has increased super high speed and large capacitance wireless communication has been popularized and various functions have been recently incorporated in a single mobile communication terminal. For example in addition to a communication function an entertainment function such as game a multimedia function such as music video reproduction a communication and security function for mobile banking and the like and a function such as schedule management or electronic wallet may be integrated into a single electronic device.

Portable electronic devices for example an electronic scheduler a portable multimedia player a mobile communication terminal and a tablet Personal Computer PC are generally equipped with a flat display device and a battery and have an appearance of either bar type a folder type or a slide type. As electronic communication technologies develope electronic devices that are miniaturized to be wearable on a body portion such as a wrist or a head are now being commercialized.

Depending on the functions of a single electronic device the electronic device may require a plurality of antenna devices. For example it is possible to access various communication networks having different service frequency bandwidths such as a commercial communication network a wireless Local Area Network LAN Bluetooth and a Near Field Communication NFC network.

However even if a miniaturized and light electronic device for example a mobile communication terminal or a body wearable electronic device is equipped with a plurality of antenna devices there may be a difficulty in securing a stable performance depending on the environment of the electronic device. For example a mobile communication terminal may be used when a proximity wireless communication antenna device is disposed on the rear surface thereof. However there may be restrictions in the placement of a proximity wireless communication antenna device on a body wearable electronic device because a rear surface of the body wearable electronic device is worn in contact with a part of the body.

The present invention has been made to solve at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present invention is to provide a portable electronic device that may facilitate placement of an antenna device while being miniaturized.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide a portable electronic device that secures a stable operation characteristic of an antenna device while facilitating placement of the antenna device.

According to an aspect of the present invention a portable electronic device is provided which includes a circuit board and a radiator disposed along an edge of a circuit board on one side of the circuit board.

The present invention may have various modifications and embodiments and thus will be described with reference to specific embodiments in detail. However it should be understood that the present invention is not limited to the specific embodiments but the present invention includes all modifications equivalents and alternatives within the spirit and the scope of the present invention.

Although the terms including an ordinal number such as first second etc. can be used for describing various elements the structural elements are not restricted by the terms. The terms are only used to distinguish one element from another element. For example without departing from the scope of the present invention a first structural element may be named a second structural element. Similarly the second structural element also may be named the first structural element. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more associated items.

The relative terms such as a front surface a rear surface an upper surface and a lower surface which are described with reference to the drawings may be replaced by ordinal numbers such as first and second. In the ordinal numbers such as first and second their order are determined in the mentioned order or arbitrarily and may not be arbitrarily changed if necessary.

Herein terms are used to describe a specific embodiment and are not intended to limit the present invention. Singular forms are intended to include plural forms unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. In the description it should be understood that the terms include or have indicate existence of a feature a number a step an operation a structural element parts or a combination thereof and do not exclude the existences or probability of addition of one or more another features numeral steps operations structural elements parts or combinations thereof.

Unless defined differently all terms used herein which include technical terminologies or scientific terminologies have the same meaning as that understood by a person skilled in the art to which the present invention belongs. Such terms as those defined in a generally used dictionary are to be interpreted to have the meanings equal to the contextual meanings in the relevant field of art and are not to be interpreted to have ideal or excessively formal meanings unless clearly defined in the present specification.

In the present invention an electronic device may be a random device and the electronic device may also be referred to as a terminal a portable terminal a mobile terminal a communication terminal a portable communication terminal a portable mobile terminal a display device and the like.

For example the electronic device may be a smartphone a portable phone a game player a TV a display unit a heads up display unit for a vehicle a notebook computer a laptop computer a tablet PC a Personal Media Player PMP a Personal Digital Assistants PDA etc. The electronic device may be implemented as a portable communication terminal which has a wireless communication function and is in a pocket size. Further the electronic device may be a flexible device or a flexible display unit.

The electronic device may communicate with an external electronic device such as a server or perform an operation through an interworking with the external electronic device. For example the electronic device may transmit an image photographed by a camera and or position information detected by a sensor unit to the server through a network. The network may be a mobile or cellular communication network a LAN a Wireless LAN WLAN a Wide Area Network WAN an Internet a Small Area Network SAN but is not limited thereto.

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention a portable electronic device is provided which includes a circuit board and a radiator disposed along an edge of the circuit board on one side of the circuit board.

The portable electronic device may further include a recessed portion formed on the one side of the circuit board and the radiator may be accommodated in the recessed portion.

The portable electronic device may further include a ferrite member interposed between the radiator and the other side of the circuit board.

The ferrite member may be disposed between the radiator and a bottom surface of the recessed portion.

The portable electronic device may further include an opening formed in the recessed portion and a clip member supported on the bottom surface of the recessed portion and an elastic piece of the clip member may be accommodated in the opening to be in contact with the radiator.

According to an embodiment the clip member may include a fixed piece which is at least partially fixed around the opening and the elastic piece may extend from the fixed piece.

The radiator may be configured by a conductor pattern formed along the edge of the circuit board on the one side of the circuit board.

The portable electronic device may further include a ferrite member placed on the other side of the circuit board.

The portable electronic device may further include a recessed portion formed on the one side of the circuit board and the ferrite member may be accommodated in the recessed portion.

The ferrite member may be positioned to correspond to a region where the conductor pattern is formed.

The circuit board may include a fill cut region formed between the conductor pattern and the ferrite member.

The portable electronic device may further include a board housing that accommodates the circuit board and the radiator may be positioned to face a front side of the board housing.

The portable electronic device may further include wearing members which extend from the board housing in directions in which the wearing members are farther apart from each other.

The electronic device may further include a display device positioned on the front side of the body housing.

According to the aspects of the present invention the portable electronic device may contribute to miniaturization and reduction of weight since an antenna device may be arranged so as not to increase the thickness of a circuit board. In addition an antenna device may be easily situated even in an electronic device which is provided with a curved appearance in consideration of a user s convenience and appearance design like a body wearable electronic device.

Further according to the aspects of the present invention the portable electronic device may secure a stable operation characteristic in a state where it is worn on a body portion since an antenna device may be placed on one side or the other of a circuit board of a circuit board in consideration of a state where the electronic device is worn on a part of the body.

Referring to a portable electronic device includes a board housing that accommodates a circuit board and a wearing member . The electronic device may be worn on a body portion of a user such as a wrist using the wearing member . For example the board housing may be tied on the user s wrist by the wearing member extending from the board housing .

The board housing includes a display device mounted on a front side of the board housing and a circuit board accommodated in the board housing . The display device includes a display module that outputs a picture and a window member positioned on the surface of the board housing . The display device may be provided with a touch panel for example between the display module and the window member such that the display device may be used as an input device. At least one physical key is installed on the front side or a lateral side of the board housing . The physical key may perform functions such as power ON OFF and sleep mode switching.

The wearing member ties the board housing to a portion of the user s body. According to an embodiment of the present invention the wearing member is composed of first and second bands and . Each of the first and second bands and extends from the board housing to be farther apart from each other and form a ring shape together with the board housing when they are tied to each other. Here the first and second bands may extend from different positions in different directions and thus it should be noted that the extending directions are not specifically defined. For example when the first and second bands and are flexible or are pivotally coupled to the board housing the first and second bands and may be positioned to be parallel to each other as illustrated in .

Fastening members and are provided on an end of the first band and fastening holes corresponding to the fastening members and are formed on the second band . Each of the fastening members and is tied to the end of the first band . The first fastening member has a frame shape so as to allow the second band to pass therethrough. When the second fastening member is engaged and fixed in one of the fastening holes when the second band passes through the first fastening member the first and second bands and may form a ring shape together with the board housing . The first band may be further provided with a band guide . A part of the second band which has passed through the first fastening member may be maintained when it is closely contacted with the outer surface of the first band by the band guide .

Referring to a radiator is mounted on the circuit board . For example the radiator may be disposed along edges of the circuit board on one surface of the circuit board . The illustrated radiator has a closed loop shape but may be made of a flexible printed circuit board which is formed with a conductive pattern. The conductive pattern that forms the radiator may be implemented in various forms such as a helical form or a meander line form. Upon wearing the electronic device the rear side of the board housing may face or come into contact with a user s body portion. Accordingly when the radiation direction of the antenna device is directed to the front side of the board housing a stable operation may be secured. For example the radiator may be disposed such that it is positioned on one side of the circuit board to face the front side of the board housing . The radiator may be used as an NFC antenna that resonates at a frequency of about 13.56 MHz for example an electromagnetic inductive coupling type antenna .

In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device further includes a ferrite member having a shape corresponding to that of the radiator . The ferrite member is disposed between the radiator and the one side of the circuit board to face the radiator in which the ferrite member controls the direction of a wireless signal emitted through the radiator and suppresses interference between the radiator and other circuit devices.

The one side of the circuit board is composed of a component mounting region and a recessed portion provided around the component mounting region . The recessed portion may be formed to be lower than the component mounting region . For example the recessed portion may be formed to be lower than the component mounting region using a cavity method which removes a part of the circuit board . The recessed portion may be exposed as part of the one side of the circuit board and exposed at the periphery of the circuit board . An Application Processor AP a communication module a memory a sensor module etc. may be mounted on the component mounting region . The configurations of such circuit devices will be described in detail below with reference to .

The radiator and the ferrite member may be accommodated and disposed in the recessed portion . When the radiator is implemented by a flexible printed circuit board the radiator and the ferrite member may be formed to have a thickness of about 0.25 mm and a width of about 2 mm. When the recessed portion is formed to have a depth and a width which are equal to or larger than 0.25 mm and 2 mm respectively the radiator and the ferrite member may be disposed in the recessed portion when they do not protrude either from the one side or lateral sides of the circuit board . Here although upper limits of the depth and width of the recessed portion are not specifically defined a person ordinarily skilled in the art may properly set the limits in consideration of the thickness of the circuit board the side of the component mounting region etc. Since the thickness of the circuit board can be maintained even though the radiator is disposed on the circuit board miniaturization and reduction of weight of an electronic device can be accomplished even if the radiator and the circuit board is equipped in the electronic device. In addition an antenna device for example the radiator may be easily disposed substantially within the mounting region of the circuit board in an electronic device fabricated in a curved line or curved plane shape considering wearing on a portion of the body.

The electronic device includes a connection member or a clip member for example a C clip in order to connect the radiator with a communication module mounted on the circuit board . The C clip is mounted on the recessed portion to be connected with the communication module through a wiring of the circuit board . An opening is formed in the recessed portion to at least partially accommodate a part of the C clip for example an elastic piece . The C clip may include a fixed piece which is fixedly mounted on the bottom surface of the recessed portion . At least a portion of the fixed piece is fixed to the circumference of the opening and another portion of the fixed piece is disposed across the opening . The elastic piece extends from the fixed piece in which a portion of the elastic piece is positioned within the opening and another portion protrudes from the bottom surface of the recessed portion .

When the radiator is mounted on the recessed portion the portion of the elastic piece which protrudes from the bottom surface of the recessed portion comes into contact with the radiator so as to connect the radiator to the communication module. When the elastic piece is in contact with the radiator the elastic piece may be turned back into the inside of the opening and accommodated therein. For example the radiator may compress a portion of the elastic piece while the radiator is being mounted on the recessed portion thereby causing the portion to be introduced into the opening . As a result the C clip may connect the radiator to the communication module without protruding from the one side or the other side of the circuit board . The ferrite member may be interposed between the radiator and the bottom surface of the recessed portion and another opening may be formed in the ferrite member so as to provide a route through which the elastic piece comes into contact with the radiator .

Referring to an electronic device utilizes a part of a conductive pattern formed on a circuit board as a radiator .

The circuit board is formed as a multi layer printed circuit board and a conductive pattern in any one layer that forms the circuit board is configured as the radiator . For example a part of the conductive pattern formed on the uppermost layer L of the circuit board is formed in a helical shape along the edge of the circuit board to constitute the radiator . Since the radiator is configured by the conductive pattern formed on the circuit board it is connected to a communication module through a wiring of the circuit board even if a separate connection member is not disposed. Each of the layers L L L . . . that constitute the circuit board is formed with a conductive pad or a wiring . If needed conductive pads or wirings in different layers may be connected with each other through via holes which penetrate respective layers or a conductive material filled in the via holes.

A ferrite member having a shape corresponding to the region where the radiator is formed is attached to the circuit board . When the radiator is formed on one side of the circuit board the ferrite member is attached to the other side of the circuit board . As an example of the distribution of wireless signal powers of the radiator the radiation direction may be controlled using the ferrite member . The circuit board includes a recessed portion . When the radiator is formed on one side of the circuit board the recessed portion may be formed on the other side of the circuit board to correspond to the region where the radiator is formed. The ferrite member is attached to the recessed portion to be positioned correspondingly with the radiator . As a result it is possible to attach the ferrite member to the circuit board while maintaining the thickness of the circuit board .

The circuit board includes a fill cut region F formed between the radiator and the ferrite member . The fill cut region F is a region where the conductive pads or wirings the via holes or the conductive material filled in the via holes are not placed. The fill cut region F ensures a stable operation of each of the radiator and other circuit devices.

Referring to the electronic device includes a bus a processor a memory an input output interface a display a communication interface and an application operation module .

The bus includes a circuit that interconnects the above described components and transfers a communication between the above described components for example a control message .

The processor receives commands from other above described components for example the memory the input output interface the display the communication interface or the application operation module through for example the bus decrypts the received commands and executes an arithmetic operation or data processing according to the decrypted commands.

The memory stores the commands or data received from or generated by the processor or other components for example the input output interface the display the communication interface or the application operation module . The memory may include programming modules for example a kernel a middleware an Application Programming Interface API or applications . Each of the above described programming modules may be configured by software firmware or hardware or a combination at least two of them.

The kernel controls or manages system resources for example the bus the processor or the memory which are used to execute an action or a function implemented in the other program modules for example the middleware the API or the applications . In addition the kernel provides an interface which may access individual components of the electronic device from the middleware the API or the applications so as to control or manage the components.

The middleware acts as an intermediary such that the API or the applications communicates with the kernel so as to exchange data. In addition in connection with task requests received from the applications the middleware performs a control for the task requests for example scheduling or load balancing by using a method of setting a priority of using the system resources of the electronic device for example the bus the processor or the memory for example for at least one application among the applications

The API is an interface that allows the applications to control the functions provided from the kernel or the middleware and may include for example at least one interface or function for example command for performing for example a file control a window control an image processing or character control.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the applications may include for example a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS application an e mail application a calendar application an alarm application a health care application for example an application that measures physical exercise blood sugar or the like or an environmental information application for example an application that provides atmospheric pressure humidity temperature information and the like . Alternatively the applications may be applications related to information exchange between the electronic device and an external electronic device. The applications related to the information exchange may include for example a notification relay application for transferring specific information to the external electronic device or a device management application for managing the external electronic device.

For example the notification transferring application may include a function of transferring notification information generated in the other applications of the electronic device for example the SMS MMS application the e mail application the health care application or the environmental information application to the external electronic device. Alternatively the notification transferring application may receive notification information from for example the external electronic device and provide the notification information to the user. The device management application may manage for example install delete or update for example at least some functions for the external electronic device which communicates with the electronic device for example turn on turn off of the external electronic device itself or some components thereof or tuning of brightness or resolution of a display an application operated in the external electronic device or a service provided from the external electronic device for example a communication service or a message service .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the applications may include an application designated according to a property of the external electronic device for example a kind of electronic device . For example when the electronic device is an MP3 player the applications may include an application related to music reproduction. Similarly when the external electronic device is a mobile medical appliance the applications may include an application related to health care. According to an embodiment of the present invention the applications may include at least one of an application designated to the electronic device and an application received from other electronic devices for example a server or the external electronic device .

The input output interface transfers commands or data input from the user through an input output device for example a sensor a keyboard or a touch screen to the processor the memory the communication interface or the application operation module for example through the bus . For example the input output interface provides the data in relation to the user s touch which is input through the touch screen to the processor . In addition the input output interface outputs commands or data received through for example the bus from the processor the memory the communication interface or the application operation module through the input output device for example the speaker or the display . For example the input output interface outputs sound data processed through the processor to the user through the speaker.

The display displays various information items for example multimedia data or text data to the user and may be implemented as the above described display device .

The communication interface connects communication between the electronic device and other electronic devices for example the external electronic device or the server . For example the communication interface may be connected to the network through wireless communication or wired communication to communicate with the external electronic device. The wireless communication may include at least one of for example Wireless Fidelity WiFi WiFi direct Bluetooth BT NFC Global Positioning System GPS or cellular communication for example Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband CDMA WCDMA Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Wireless Broadband WiBro or Global System for Mobile Communications GSM . The wired communication may include at least one of for example Universal Serial Bus USB High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI Recommended Standard 232 RS 232 and Plain Old Telephone Service POTS .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the network may be a telecommunications network. The communication network may include at least one of for example a computer network internet internet of things and a telephone network. According to an embodiment of the present invention a protocol for communication between the electronic device and the external electronic device for example a transport layer protocol a data link layer protocol or a physical layer protocol may be supported by at least one of the applications the API the middleware the kernel and the communication interface .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the application operation module supports the driving of the electronic device by performing at least one action among the actions or functions implemented in the electronic device . For example the server includes a communication control server module which is capable of supporting the application operation module implemented in the electronic device . For example the communication control server module includes at least one of the components of the application operation module and performs for example substitutes for at least one actions performed by the application operation module .

The application operation module processes at least a part of information acquired from other components for example the processor the memory the input output interface the communication interface and uses the processed information in various methods. For example the application operation module controls at least some functions of the electronic device such that the electronic device may be interlocked with other electronic devices for example the external electronic device or the server by using the processor or independently from the processor . The application operation module may be integrated in the processor . According to an embodiment of the present invention at least one configuration of the application operation module may be included in the server for example the communication control server module and may be supported with at least one action implemented in the application operation module from the server . Additional information for the application operation module will be provided through . illustrates a block diagram of a portable electronic device according to an embodiment of the present invention. Specifically the electronic device illustrated in may constitute the whole or a part of the electronic device described above.

Referring to the electronic device includes at least one of an Application Processor AP a communication module a Subscriber Identification Module SIM card a memory a sensor module an input module a display an interface an audio module a camera module a power management module a battery an indicator and a motor .

The AP drives an operation system or an application program so as to control a plurality of hardware or software constituent elements connected to the AP process various data including multimedia data and perform an arithmetic operation. The AP may be implemented using for example a System on Chip SoC . According to an embodiment of the present invention the AP may further include a Graphic Processing Unit GPU .

The communication module for example the above described communication interface in performs data transmission reception in communication between the other electronic devices for example external electronic device or the server in . According to an embodiment of the present invention the communication module includes at least one of a cellular module a WiFi module a BT module a GPS module an NFC module and a Radio Frequency RF module .

The cellular module provides voice communication video communication a text messaging service an internet service and the like through a communication network for example LTE LTE A CDMA WCDMA UMTS WiBro or GSM . In addition the cellular module performs discrimination and authentication of an electronic device within a communication network using for example a subscriber identification module for example the SIM card . According to an embodiment of the present invention the cellular module performs at least some of functions which may be provided by the AP . For example the cellular module may perform at least a part of the multimedia control function.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the cellular module includes a Communication Processor CP . In addition the cellular module may be implemented using for example an SoC. illustrates the components such as the cellular module for example the CP the memory and the power management module as components separate from the AP . However according to an embodiment of the present invention the AP may be implemented by at least some of the above described components for example cellular module .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the AP or the cellular module for example the CP loads commands or data received from at least one of a non volatile memory or other components connected to each of them in a volatile memory to process the commands or data. In addition the AP or the cellular module stores data received from or generated by at least one of the other components in a non volatile memory.

Each of the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may include a processor that processes data transmitted received through for example a corresponding module. illustrates the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module as separate blocks. However according to an embodiment of the present invention at least some for example two or more of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may be included in a single Integrated Chip IC or IC package. For example at least some of the processors which respectively correspond to the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module for example the CP corresponding to the cellular module and the WiFi processor corresponding to the WiFi module may be implemented using a single SoC.

The RF module performs data transmission reception for example transmission reception of RF signals. Although not illustrated the RF module may include for example a transceiver a Power Amp Module PAM a frequency filter or a Low Noise Amplifier LNA . In addition the RF module may further include components for electromagnetic waves on a free space in wireless communication for example a conductor or a conducting wire. illustrates that the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module share one RF module . However according to an embodiment of the present invention at least one of the cellular module the WiFi module the BT module the GPS module and the NFC module may perform transmission reception of RF signals through a separate RF module.

The SIM card is a card including a subscriber identification module and may be inserted into a slot formed in a specific position in the electronic device. The SIM card may include intrinsic identification information for example Integrated Circuit Card Identifier ICCID or subscriber information for example International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

The memory for example the memory includes a internal memory or an external memory . The internal memory may include at least one of for example a volatile memory for example a Dynamic RAM DRAM a Static RAM SRAM a Synchronous Dynamic RAM SDRAM and a non volatile memory for example a One Time Programmable ROM OTPROM a Programmable ROM PROM an Erasable and Programmable ROM EPROM an Electrically Erasable and Programmable ROM EEPROM a mask ROM a flash ROM a NAND flash memory and NOR flash memory .

According to an embodiment of the present invention the external memory may be a Solid State Drive SSD . The external memory may further include a flash drive for example a Compact Flash CF a Secure Digital SD a Micro Secure Digital Micro SD a Mini Secure Digital Mini SD an extreme digital xD or a memory stick. The external memory may be functionally connected with the electronic device through various interfaces. According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device may further include a storage device storage medium such as a hard drive.

The sensor module measures a physical amount or an operating state of the electronic device and converts the measured or sensed information into an electric signal. The sensor module includes at least one of for example a gesture sensor A a gyroscope sensor B an atmospheric pressure sensor C a magnetic sensor D an acceleration sensor E a grip sensor F a proximity sensor G a color sensor H for example an RGB red green blue sensor a biometric sensor I a temperature humidity sensor J an illumination sensor K and an Ultra Violet UV sensor M. Alternatively the sensor module may include for example an Electronic nose sensor E nose sensor an ElectroMyoGgraphy EMG an ElectroEncephaloGram EEG sensor an ElectroCardioGram ECG sensor an Infra Red IR sensor a iris sensor or a fingerprint sensor. The sensor module may further include a control circuit that controls one or more sensors included therein.

The input module includes a touch panel a digital pen sensor a key or an ultrasonic input device . The touch panel recognizes a touch input using for example at least one of capacitive pressure sensitive infra red and ultrasonic methods. In addition the touch panel may further include a control circuit. A capacitive touch sensor recognizes physical contact or proximity. The touch panel may further include a tactile layer. In such a case the touch panel may provide a feeler response to the user.

The digital pen sensor may be implemented for example with a method which is the same as or similar to receiving a user s touch input or by using a separate recognition sheet. The key may include for example a physical button an optical key or a keypad. The ultrasonic input device is a device that may sense a sound wave using a microphone for example a microphone in the electronic device through an input instrument that generates an ultrasonic signal so as to confirm data. The ultrasonic input device performs wireless recognition. According to an embodiment of the present invention the electronic device may receive a user input using the communication module from an external electronic device for example a computer or a server connected to the communication module .

The display for example the display in includes a panel a hologram device or a projector . The panel may be for example a liquid crystal display LCD or an Active Matrix Organic Light Emitting Diode AM OLED . The panel may be configured for example to be flexible transparent or wearable. The panel may be configured as a single module together with the touch panel . The hologram device shows a stereoscopic image in the air using interference of light. The projector projects light to a screen to display an image. The screen may be positioned for example inside or outside the electronic device . According to an embodiment of the present invention the display may further include a control circuit that controls the panel the hologram device or the projector .

The interface includes for example a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI a USB an optical interface or a D subminiature D sub . The interface may include for example the communication interface illustrated in . Alternatively the interface may include for example a Mobile High Definition Link MHL interface a Secure Digital SD card Multi Media Card MMC interface or an Infrared Data Association IrDA standard interface.

The audio module bi directionally converts sound and electric signals. At least some components of the audio module may be included for example in the input output interface illustrated in . The audio module processes sound information input or output through for example the speaker the receiver the earphone or the microphone .

The camera module is a device capable of photographing a still image or a video image. According to an embodiment of the present invention the camera module includes one or more image sensors for example a front sensor or a rear sensor a lens an image signal processor ISP or a flash including for example an LED or a xenon lamp .

The power management module manages the power of the electronic device . Although not illustrated the power management module may include for example a Power Management Integrated Circuit PMIC a charger Integrated Circuit IC or a battery or fuel gauge.

The PMIC may be installed in for example an integrated circuit or an SoC semiconductor. The charging method may be classified into a wired method and a wireless method. The charger IC may charge the battery and may prevent inflow of overvoltage or overcurrent from a charger. According to an embodiment of the present invention the charger IC may include at least one charger IC for use in the wired charging method and the wireless charging method. The wireless charging method may include for example a magnetic resonance method a magnetic induction method or an electromagnetic wave method and an additional circuit for wireless charging such as coil loop a resonance circuit or a rectifier circuit may be added.

The battery gauge measures for example a residual capacity of the battery a voltage a current or a temperature during charging. The battery stores or generate electricity and provide power to the electronic device using the stored or generated electricity. The battery may include for example a rechargeable battery or a solar battery.

The indicator indicates a specific status of the electronic device or a part thereof for example the AP for example a booting status a message status or a charging status. The motor converts an electronic signal into mechanical vibration. Although not illustrated the electronic device may include a processing unit e.g. GPU for mobile TV support. The processing unit for supporting the mobile TV may process for example media data according to a standard of Digital Multimedia Broadcasting DMB Digital Video Broadcasting DVB media flow and the like.

The aforementioned elements of the electronic device according to various embodiments of the present invention may be configured with one or more components and the name of the corresponding element may vary depending on a type of the electronic device. The electronic device according to the various embodiments of the present invention may include at least one of the aforementioned elements or may further include other additional elements or some of the aforementioned elements may be omitted. Also a few of component elements of an electronic device according to various embodiments of the present invention are coupled to form a single entity and may equivalently execute functions of the corresponding component elements which are not coupled.

The module used in various embodiments of the present invention may refer to for example a unit including one of hardware software and firmware or a combination of two or more of the hardware software and firmware. The module may be interchangeable with a term such as a unit a logic a logical block a component or a circuit. The module may be a minimum unit of an integrated component element or a part thereof. The module may be a minimum unit for performing one or more functions or a part thereof. The module may be mechanically or electronically implemented. For example the module according to various embodiments of the present invention may include at least one of an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC chip a Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs and a programmable logic device for performing operations which have been known or are to be developed hereafter.

According to various embodiments at least part of a device for example modules or functions thereof or a method for example operations according to the various embodiments of the present invention may be embodied by for example an instruction stored in a computer readable storage medium provided in a form of a programming module. When he command is executed by one or more processors for example the processor in the one or more processors may execute a function corresponding to the command. The computer readable storage media may be for example the memory in . At least a part of the programming module may be implemented for example executed by for example the processor in . At least a part of the programming module may include for example a module a program a routine a set of instructions or a process for performing at least one function.

The computer readable recording medium may include magnetic media such as a hard disk a floppy disk and a magnetic tape optical media such as a Compact Disc ROM CD ROM and a Digital Versatile Disc DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and hardware devices specially configured to store and perform a program instruction for example programming module such as a ROM a RAM a flash memory and the like. Further the program commands may include high class language codes that can be executed in a computer by using an interpreter as well as machine language codes that are made by a compiler. The aforementioned hardware device may be configured to operate as one or more software modules in order to perform the operation of various embodiments of the present invention and vice versa.

A programming module according to the present invention may include at least one of the described component elements a few of the component elements may be omitted or additional component elements may be included. Operations executed by a module a programming module or other component elements according to various embodiments of the present invention may be executed sequentially in parallel repeatedly or in a heuristic manner. Also a few operations may be executed based on a different order may be omitted or may additionally include another operation.

While the present invention has been shown and described with reference to certain embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims. For example although a wearable electronic apparatus has been described as a specific embodiment of the present invention it should be noted that the present invention can also be applied to an electronic apparatus which is not wearable.

