---

title: Sorohalide scintillators, phosphors, and uses thereof
abstract: The present invention relates to sorohalide compounds having formula ABX, where A is an alkali metal, B is a rare earth metal, and X is a halogen. Optionally, the sorohalide includes a dopant D. Such undoped and doped sorohalides are useful as scintillation materials or phosphors for any number of uses, including for radiation detectors, solid-state light sources, gamma-ray spectroscopy, medical imaging, and drilling applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09334444&OS=09334444&RS=09334444
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09334444
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20140211
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention generally relates to scintillators and phosphors which are materials that emit light upon photoexcitation or upon exposure to ionizing radiation as well as methods of making and using such materials.

Scintillators and phosphors can be formed from various materials including organic inorganic gaseous glass and or plastic materials. In particular inorganic scintillators offer enhanced light output and energy resolution as compared to other materials. However depending on its intended use even inorganic scintillators can have limited emission spectra or optical quantum yield. For instance broadband emission phosphors can be desirable for use in a solid state light source such as converting a near UV light source from a light emitting diode LED to a visible white emission. In general white LEDs are produced by mixing two or more phosphors to produce white light. For instance a blue emitting phosphor and a yellow emitting phosphor are used in combination to produce a white emission. It may be desirable to have a single phosphor having a broadband emission that produces white light. In another example high optical quantum yield is desirable in solid state lighting and radiation detection having increased light yield and sensitivity. Thus there is a need for additional scintillators and phosphors having enhanced optical and or radioluminescence qualities.

The present invention focuses on a new class of lanthanide halide materials namely sorohalides ABXfor use as advanced scintillators or phosphors for any useful application e.g. for solid state lighting applications . Here A is an alkali metal e.g. Group 1 in the IUPAC periodic table of the elements B is a rare earth element e.g. including lanthanides elements 57 71 in the IUPAC periodic table of the elements Sc Y and Lu and X is a halogen e.g. Group 17 in the IUPAC periodic table of the elements . Such scintillators can be useful for e.g. radiation detection gamma ray spectroscopy phosphors for solid state lighting and medical imaging applications as well as any uses described herein.

In some embodiments the scintillation material e.g. scintillation crystal of the invention include dopant activated e.g. Ce activated sorohalides e.g. A is Cs and or Rb B is Gd Sc and or Y based sorohalides and X is Cl Br and or I . Herein we provide data for scintillation characterization on photoluminescence with quantum yield 90 and lifetime measurement data 

Accordingly the invention features a scintillation material of formula ABX D where A is an alkali metal B is a rare earth metal X is a halogen and D is a dopant. In some embodiments 0 i

In some embodiments A is selected from the group of Li Na K Rb Cs and Fr. In other embodiments B is selected from the group of Sc Y La Ce Pr Nd Pm Sm Eu Gd Tb Dy Ho Er Tm Yb and Lu e.g. Pr Nd Pm Sm Eu Gd Tb Dy Ho Er Tm Yb or Lu such as Pr Nd or Pm . In yet other embodiments X is selected from the group of F Cl Br and I. In some embodiments D is selected from the group of Ce e.g. Ce Eu e.g. Eu Yb e.g. Yb Mn e.g. Mn Ca Sr Ba Sc Y Zr Hf Zn Tl Ag Cd Al Ga In and Sn.

In some embodiments the rare earth metal B is Gd e.g. formula is AGdXD . In further embodiments 0 i 0.5 0 i 1 0.01 0.5 0.01 i 1 0.1 i 0.5 0.1 i 1 or any values described herein.

In some embodiments the rare earth metal B is Sc e.g. formula is AScXD . In other embodiments the rare earth metal B is Y e.g. formula is AYXD .

In other embodiments the alkali metal A is Cs or Rb e.g. formula is CsBX Dor RbBXD . In some embodiments the material has formula CsGdXD RbGdX D CsScX D RbScX D CsYX D or RbYX D.

In some embodiments X is F Cl Br or I. In particular embodiments X is Cl Br or I. In other embodiments X is Cl or Br. In other embodiments X is Br e.g. the formula is CsGdBr D RbGdBr D CsScBr D RbScBr D CsYBr D or RbYBr D .

In some embodiments the dopant D is Ce e.g. formula is ABX Ce . Exemplary materials include those having formula AGdX Ce AScX Ce AYX Ce CsGdX Ce RbGdX Ce CsScX Ce RbScX Ce CsYX Ce RbYX Ce AGdBr Ce AScBr Ce AYBr Ce CsBX Ce RbBX Ce CsBBr Ce RbBBr Ce CsGdBr Ce RbGdBr Ce CsScBr Ce RbScBr Ce CsYBr Ce or RbYBr Ce.

In one aspect the invention also features a radiation detector including a scintillation material of the invention e.g. any described herein and a photodetector configured to measure light emission from the material and to provide a detectable signal of the emission. In some embodiments the scintillation material is of formula ABXD and 0 i

In some embodiments the photodetector includes a film a photomultiplier tube a photodiode an avalanche photodiode a microchannel plate a photocathode or a charge coupled device.

In other embodiments the radiation detector is a positron emission tomography scanner an X ray computed tomography scanner a scintigraphy scanner or a gamma camera.

In another aspect the invention features a solid state light source including a radiation source configured to emit radiation having at least one wavelength from about 200 nm to about 500 nm and a scintillation material of the invention e.g. any described herein . In some embodiments the scintillation material is of formula ABX D and 0 i

In some embodiments the radiation source is a UV or near UV light emitting diode. In some embodiments the solid state light source is configured to emit a visible white emission. In other embodiments the solid state light source is a white light emitting diode.

In some embodiments the radiation source is configured to emit radiation having at least one wavelength from about 250 nm to about 410 nm e.g. a UV diode .

In another aspect the invention features a system e.g. for a white light emitting diode the system including a radiation source configured to emit radiation having at least one wavelength from about 200 nm to about 500 nm and a scintillation material of the invention e.g. any described herein . In some embodiments the scintillation material is of formula ABX D and 0 i

In yet another aspect the invention features a method for preparing a scintillation material the method including melt synthesis or solution based synthesis thereby preparing the scintillation material of the invention e.g. where the formula is ABX D . In some embodiments 0 i

In some embodiments the method includes melt synthesis. In further embodiments the melt synthesis includes i mixing a rare earth metal halide salt BX e.g. BBr such as GdBr and an alkali metal AX e.g. ABr such as CsBr to form a combination where the rare earth metal halide salt and the alkali metal can be mixed consecutively in any order or at the same time ii mixing dopant complex DX e.g. DBr such as CeBr in the combination and iii melting the combination thereby preparing the scintillation material.

In other embodiments the method includes solution based synthesis. In further embodiments the solution based synthesis includes i dissolving a rare earth metal halide salt BX e.g. BBr such as GdBr and an alkali metal AX e.g. ABr such as CsBr in HX e.g. HBr to form a solution where the rare earth metal halide salt and the alkali metal can be dissolved consecutively in any order or at the same time ii dissolving dopant complex DX e.g. DBr such as CeBr in the solution iii evaporating the solution e.g. dehydrating the solution thereby providing one or more hydrated crystals and iv treating the hydrated crystals e.g. dehydrating the hydrated crystal s to a treatment temperature below about 300 C. thereby preparing or forming the scintillation material. In other embodiments step iii includes slowly heating the HX solution under vacuum and with a cold trap. In some embodiments step iv includes the treatment temperature at about 250 C. or about e.g. 150 C. 175 C. 200 C. 225 C. 275 300 C. 325 C. or 350 C. and a duration of at least about 6 hours or about e.g. 4 5 7 8 9 10 or more hours under vacuum and with a cold trap.

In some embodiments step i for any method herein includes a stoichiometry ratio of about 3 2 for AX BX.

In some embodiments any method herein forms the scintillation material in crystalline phase or in powder form.

In another aspect the invention features a method for detecting radiation the method including exposing a scintillation material of the invention e.g. any described herein to radiation and detecting light emitted from the material with a photodetector. In some embodiments scintillation material is of formula ABX Dand 0 i

In some embodiments the method includes use in application for gamma ray spectroscopy medical imaging gas drilling or oil drilling.

In yet another aspect the invention features a method for producing illumination the method including providing a radiation source configured to emit radiation having at least one wavelength from about 200 nm to about 500 nm and exposing a scintillation material of the invention e.g. any described herein to radiation thereby resulting in the emission of illumination from the material. In some embodiments scintillation material is of formula ABX D and 0 i

In any embodiment described herein the material further includes one or more co dopants e.g. any dopant or co dopant described herein .

In any embodiment described herein the scintillation material is in crystalline phase or in powder form.

In any embodiment described herein the material has a quantum yield greater than about 90 e.g. from about 90 to 93 90 to 95 90 to 98 90 to 99 91 to 93 91 to 95 91 to 98 91 to 99 93 to 95 93 to 98 93 to 99 95 to 98 or 95 to 99 etc. . In some embodiments the material has a quantum yield from about 50 to 99 e.g. from 50 to 95 50 to 85 50 to 80 50 to 75 60 to 99 60 to 95 60 to 85 60 to 80 60 to 75 70 to 99 70 to 95 70 to 85 70 to 80 70 to 75 75 to 99 75 to 95 75 to 85 75 to 80 80 to 99 80 to 95 80 to 85 90 to 99 90 to 95 or 95 to 99 . In particular embodiments the material has a quantum yield from about 75 to 99 .

In any embodiment described herein the material has at least one lifetime decay component e.g. the fasted lifetime decay component of less than about 50 ns e.g. from about 10 ns to 20 ns 10 ns to 30 ns 10 ns to 40 ns 10 ns to 50 ns 20 ns to 30 ns 20 ns to 40 ns 20 ns to 50 ns 30 ns to 40 ns 30 ns to 50 ns or 40 ns to 50 ns .

In any embodiment described herein the material has a broadband emission spectrum e.g. an ionization emission spectrum with one or more peaks each peak is independently from about 250 nm to 700 nm e.g. from about 275 nm to 700 nm 300 nm to 700 nm 325 nm to 700 nm 350 nm to 700 nm 250 nm to 650 nm 275 nm to 650 nm 300 nm to 650 nm 325 nm to 650 nm 350 nm to 650 nm 250 nm to 600 nm 275 nm to 600 nm 300 nm to 600 nm 325 nm to 600 nm 350 nm to 600 nm 250 nm to 550 nm 275 nm to 550 nm 300 nm to 550 nm 325 nm to 550 nm 350 nm to 550 nm 250 nm to 500 nm 275 nm to 500 nm 300 nm to 500 nm 325 nm to 500 nm or 350 nm to 500 nm and or a photoemission spectrum with a peak at about 450 nm 500 nm or 550 nm . In other embodiments the material further includes sufficient red contribution e.g. emission of at least one wavelength that is more than about 450 nm 500 nm 550 nm or 600 nm such as from about 450 nm to 700 nm e.g. from about 450 nm to 500 nm 450 nm to 550 nm 450 nm to 600 nm 450 nm to 650 nm 500 nm to 550 nm 500 nm to 600 nm 500 nm to 650 nm 500 nm to 700 nm 550 nm to 600 nm 550 nm to 650 nm 550 nm to 700 nm 600 nm to 650 nm or 600 nm to 700 nm . The photoexcitation spectrum of Ce doped CsGdBrshows many Gd 5d to 4f transitions and a major excitation band peaked at about 348 nm e.g. from about 300 nm to 420 nm such as from 300 nm to 400 nm 300 nm to 350 nm 325 nm to 420 nm 325 nm to 400 nm or 325 nm to 350 nm . Under ionization excitations this material shows a broad emission peak centered at about 499 nm and spanning from about 350 nm to 700 nm.

In any embodiment described herein the rare earth metal B is selected from the group of Gd Sc Y Pr Nd Pm Sm Eu Tb Dy Ho Er Tm Yb and Lu e.g. Pr Nd Gd or others .

In any embodiment described herein the dopant D includes Ce e.g. Ce Eu e.g. Eu or Eu Yb e.g. Yb or Yb and Mn e.g. Mn . In some embodiments the material includes a dopant e.g. Ce and a co dopant e.g. Mn .

By about is meant 10 of any recited value. As used herein this term modifies any recited value range of values or endpoints of one or more ranges.

Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the claims.

The present invention relates to sorohalides e.g. ABX and includes doped forms thereof. In some examples the sorohalide has the formula ABXD where D is the dopant and where i is a number reflecting the stoichiometry of dopant D in the crystal lattice and the substitution of rare earth metal B by dopant D in this lattice.

The scintillation materials of the invention include those having the formula ABX D where A is an alkali metal B is a rare earth metal X is a halogen and D is a dopant and where 0 i

The material can have any useful form. For instance and without limitation this material can be a crystal such as a single crystal e.g. a large single crystal or a small crystal or a powder. In addition the material can be in polycrystalline or monocrystalline form. In some embodiments the material is in powder form e.g. in phosphor or solid state lighting applications . In other embodiments the material has a single phase.

The material can have any useful property. For instance and without limitation the material has at least one lifetime decay component e.g. the fastest lifetime decay component that is less than about 35 ns e.g. less than about 40 ns 45 ns 50 ns 55 ns 60 ns or 65 ns . In other embodiments the material has at least three lifetime decay components where at least one is less than about 35 ns. In some embodiments the material has at least three lifetime decay components where one is less than about 35 ns and or less than about 150 ns and or less than about 600 ns. In other embodiments the material has a quantum yield greater than about 90 .

In other embodiments the material has a maximum emission spectrum having a peak at about 500 nm e.g. at about 500 nm 460 nm 470 nm 480 nm 490 nm 500 nm 510 nm 520 nm or 530 nm . In yet other embodiments the material has a doubled ionization emission peak at about 310 nm and about 390 nm e.g. at about 312 nm and about 391 nm . In some embodiments the material has at least three peaks in the excitation spectrum where a first peak is at about 275 nm a second peak is at about 310 nm and a third peak is at about 348 nm. In other embodiments the material has an excitation spectrum of sufficient red contribution e.g. at least one peak having a wavelength that is more than about 500 nm 550 nm 550 nm or 600 nm .

The materials of the invention can optionally include one or more dopants or activators. Without wishing to be limited by theory the dopant D generally substitutes the rare earth metal B in the crystal lattice to form crystal defects or to form additional energy states within the host crystal band gap. These defects and energy states create electronic levels that are generally forbidden and thus allow for additional emission peaks as compared to a material lacking the dopant. Even if the sorohalide is an inherent or intrinsic scintillator without the dopant inclusion of one or more dopants can enhance optical output and alter the emission spectra. For instance and without limitation the sorohalide CsGdBris an intrinsic scintillator and phosphor and can optionally include one or more dopants. Accordingly the type and concentration of the dopant can play a key role for the performance of scintillators or phosphors and can be modified to optimize the efficiency performance and chromaticity of the sorohalides of the invention.

Exemplary dopants include Ce e.g. Ce Eu e.g. Eu Yb e.g. Yb and Mn e.g. Mn . In some embodiments the material includes a dopant e.g. Ce and a co dopant e.g. Mn . In other embodiments D is selected from the group consisting of Ca Sr Ba Sc Y Zr Hf Zn Tl Ag Cd Al Ga In and Sn. In some embodiments the dopant and or co dopants if present are added in an amount from about 0.01 mol. to 3.0 mol. in the final material e.g. from about 0.01 mol. to 1.0 mol. 0.01 mol. to 1.5 mol. 0.01 mol. to 2.0 mol. 0.01 mol. to 2.5 mol. 0.03 mol. to 1.0 mol. 0.03 mol. to 1.5 mol. 0.03 mol. to 2.0 mol. 0.03 mol. to 2.5 mol. 0.03 mol. to 3.0 mol. 0.05 mol. to 1.0 mol. 0.05 mol. to 1.5 mol. 0.05 mol. to 2.0 mol. 0.05 mol. to 2.5 mol. 0.05 mol. to 3.0 mol. 0.1 mol. to 1.0 mol. 0.1 mol. to 1.5 mol. 0.1 mol. to 2.0 mol. 0.1 mol. to 2.5 mol. 0.1 mol. to 3.0 mol. 0.15 mol. to 1.0 mol. 0.15 mol. to 1.5 mol. 0.15 mol. to 2.0 mol. 0.15 mol. to 2.5 mol. 0.15 mol. to 3.0 mol. 0.2 mol. to 1.0 mol. 0.2 mol. to 1.5 mol. 0.2 mol. to 2.0 mol. 0.2 mol. to 2.5 mol. 0.2 mol. to 3.0 mol. 0.3 mol. to 1.0 mol. 0.3 mol. to 1.5 mol. 0.3 mol. to 2.0 mol. 0.3 mol. to 2.5 mol. or 0.3 mol. to 3.0 mol. .

In yet other embodiments the dopant and or co dopants if present are added in an amount that does not induce optical quenching e.g. thereby reducing light output . In particular embodiment one or more dopants and or co dopants are used to further red shift the emission spectra of the material e.g. by using an Eu dopant .

Such dopants can be present in any useful amount. For formula ABX D i represent the stoichiometric amount of D in the material. In some embodiments i is from about 0.01 to 1.95 e.g. from about 0.01 to 0.25 0.01 to 0.5 0.01 to 0.75. 0.01 to 1 0.01 to 1.25 0.01 to 1.5 0.01 to 1.75 0.05 to 0.25 0.05 to 0.5 0.05 to 0.75. 0.05 to 1 0.05 to 1.25 0.05 to 1.5 0.05 to 1.75 0.05 to 1.95 0.1 to 0.25 0.1 to 0.5 0.1 to 0.75. 0.1 to 1 0.1 to 1.25 0.1 to 1.5 0.1 to 1.75 0.1 to 1.95 0.2 to 0.25 0.2 to 0.5 0.2 to 0.75. 0.2 to 1 0.2 to 1.25 0.2 to 1.5 0.2 to 1.75 0.2 to 1.95 0.3 to 0.5 0.3 to 0.75. 0.3 to 1 0.3 to 1.25 0.3 to 1.5 0.3 to 1.75 0.3 to 1.95 0.4 to 0.5 0.4 to 0.75. 0.4 to 1 0.4 to 1.25 0.4 to 1.5 0.4 to 1.75 0.4 to 1.95 0.5 to 0.75. 0.5 to 1 0.5 to 1.25 0.5 to 1.5 0.5 to 1.75 0.5 to 1.95 0.6 to 0.75. 0.6 to 1 0.6 to 1.25 0.6 to 1.5 0.6 to 1.75 0.6 to 1.95 0.7 to 0.75. 0.7 to 1 0.7 to 1.25 0.7 to 1.5 0.7 to 1.75 0.7 to 1.95 0.8 to 1 0.8 to 1.25 0.8 to 1.5 0.8 to 1.75 0.8 to 1.95 0.9 to 1 0.9 to 1.25 0.9 to 1.5 0.9 to 1.75 0.9 to 1.95 1 to 1.25 1 to 1.5 1 to 1.75 1 to 1.95 1.1 to 1.25 1.1 to 1.5 1.1 to 1.75 1.1 to 1.95 1.2 to 1.25 1.2 to 1.5 1.2 to 1.75 1.2 to 1.95 1.3 to 1.5 1.3 to 1.75 1.3 to 1.95 1.4 to 1.5 1.4 to 1.75 1.4 to 1.95 1.5 to 1.75 1.5 to 1.95 1.6 to 1.75 1.6 to 1.95 1.7 to 1.75 1.7 to 1.95 1.8 to 1.95 and 1.9 to 1.95 .

Furthermore dopants can be included in the material in any useful manner as described herein. In addition a skilled artisan would understand that the amount and manner of adding the dopant can be optimized in any useful manner. For instance the amount of the dopant complex e.g. DX added during synthesis should be about the same as the desired stoichiometry of D in the final sorohalide material. Without wishing to be limited by theory the amount of dopant within the lattice may be limited by the ionic size of the dopant and the rare earth metal in the lattice structure. For instance and without limitation as the ionic size of a lanthanide ion and dopant Ce is similar the Ce ion can substitute about 50 of the Ln ions in the host lattice. In contrast this limit may be difficult for when there is a mismatch in the ionic radius between the dopant and the rare earth metal in the host lattice e.g. mismatch in the radius between D and B in ABX D . For instance the solubility range for Pr Nd and or Pm may be less than that of Ce thereby limiting the amount of dopant that can be dissolved in solution and or added to the host lattice.

The scintillation materials of the invention can be synthesized by any useful method. Exemplary methods include a solid state reaction e.g. a reaction between one or more powders in the solid state which can optionally be optimized to have a low calcination temperature e.g. below about 250 C. a melt synthesis e.g. using the Bridgman method a solution based synthesis e.g. using wet chemical methods such as by using metal acid reaction salt acid reactions hydrothermal reactions sol gel reactions chemical co precipitation combustion and or spray pyrolysis and or a vapor deposition synthesis such as a hot wall evaporation HWE method. The materials can be of any useful form such as a single crystal or a powder. Any of these steps can further include vacuum dehydration e.g. heating to 200 C. under vacuum to remove residual hydrates cutting or shaping the crystal to the desired final dimension and or sanding or polishing the crystal e.g. with alumina .

In one embodiment the sorohalide of the invention is prepared by a direct melting process using stoichiometric amounts of halide salts e.g. AX DX and or BXin powder and or bead form. In one non limiting example the sorohalide CsGdBr Cewas prepared by a direct melting process using stoichiometric amounts of CsBr CeBr and GdBr e.g. a stoichiometric ratio of about 3 2 for CsBr GdBr . About 5 mol. of CeBrwas added to substitute Gd in the compound lattice as a scintillating activator or dopant. Of course a skilled artisan would understand that the mol. of the dopant complex DXcould be optimized e.g. using any mol. or range described herein to obtain the desired doping. The starting anhydrous compounds 99.99 were mixed and loaded into an ampoule e.g. fused quartz ampoules in an inert atmosphere e.g. an argon filled glovebox . The ampoule was vacuum sealed before melting in a box furnace. Using this method a single crystal of CsGdCeBrwas grown by a vertical Bridgman method. When powders are formed after the Bridgman method polycrystalline scintillators or phosphor components can be formed by hot pressing e.g. consolidating the powder or hot forging e.g. deforming and further densifying the melt ingot . Methods of forming sorohalides are described in e.g. Meyer G 1. Ternary chlorides and bromides of the rare earth elements Chapter One Solid State in 1983 22 1 10 ed. Smith L. Holt Jr. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

In particular the benefit of halide salts includes ease of use including easy dissolution of these salts in aqueous solution and simplified mixing of the solutions with a precise control of stoichiometry. Furthermore in some instances the sorohalides can be formed by vacuum dehydration following by thermal treatment below 250 C. as well as at or below about 70 e.g. below about 90 85 80 75 70 65 60 55 50 45 or less of the highest melting point of the initial salt for a solid state reaction. Such a reduced thermal treatment would be beneficial to significantly reduce manufacturing cost as most highly efficient traditional phosphors are prepared by using high temperature calcination processes.

Methods of forming elpasolites are described in e.g. Doty F P et al. Elpasolite scintillators 2012 9951 December 2012 OSTI ID 1096473 109 pages Yang P et al. Crystal growth and scintillation properties of CsNaGdBr Ce2013 April 60 2 1033 8 and Yang P et al. The synthesis and structures of elpasolite halide scintillators 2009 1164 1164 L11 05 8 pages each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. These methods can be optimized e.g. by modifying the stoichiometric ratio of the initial components AX DX and BX to form the sorohalides of the invention.

In another embodiment the sorohalide of the invention is formed by using solution based synthesis. For instance these sorohalide compounds can be formed by slow evaporation from a HX acid e.g. a hydrobromic acid . In this exemplary process high purity CsBr GdBr and CeBrcan be dissolved in HBr solution e.g. in a stoichiometric ratio of about 3 2 for CsBr GdBr . The dopant complex CeBrcan be included at the desired ratio e.g. any useful mol. such as those described herein . Then the resultant solution can be dried and coated on a substrate e.g. a glass substrate such as a glass tube or glass panel depending on the application under mild heating in a vacuum or in an inert atmosphere e.g. in an N or Ar filled glovebox . This drying or dehydrating step can optionally include slowly heating the HX solution. In some embodiments the HX solution e.g. HBr or HCl solution is slowly heated and dried in a Schlenk flask with a vacuum pump e.g. better or less than 10torr and a cold trap e.g. a liquid nitrogen cold trap to trap HX and any other corrosive vapors. In other embodiments the method includes treating the dehydrated solution to a treatment temperature below about 300 C. e.g. at about 250 C. . In further embodiments this treating step includes exposure to the treatment temperature for at least about 6 hours. This process has been demonstrated for some elpasolite halides such as CsKTbCland CsKEuCl see e.g. Villafuerte Castrejon M E et al. Crystal Structure of CsKTbCland CsKEuClby Powder X Ray Diffraction 1997 132 1 1 5 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety .

In other embodiments the HWE method is used where this vapor deposition technique relies on partial pressures of constituent materials. This method can allow for the formation of unconventional compositions doped with various amounts of Ce and one or more other co dopants.

The dopant D e.g. in the form of the dopant complex DX can be included in any useful amount e.g. any described herein . In some embodiments about 2.5 mol. 5 mol. 7.5 mol. or 50 mol. of dopant is added to substitute in the compound lattice as an activator.

A skilled artisan would understand how to modify or optimize any of these synthetic methods to obtain the materials of the invention. For instance the following parameters can be altered substrate temperature and constituent evaporation rates e.g. for a vapor deposition technique substrate type e.g. quartz glass etc. etc. see e.g. Nagarkar V V et al. Growth and characterization of polycrystalline lanthanide halide scintillators 2011 652 1 271 4 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety .

The materials of the invention can be characterized by any useful methodology. Exemplary methods include determining film or particle morphology e.g. using a scanning electron microscope or powder x ray diffraction assessing scintillation performance e.g. using pulse height analysis with a photomultiplier tube PMT obtaining energy photoexcitation photoemission or radioluminescence spectra e.g. by using a fluorometer and an arc lamp using a x ray generator in combination with a monochromator a cathodoluminescence measurement system an ion beam accelerator a PMT and a photocathode or using PMT setup and exposing them to 241Am 60 keV 122Co 122 keV 22Na 511 keV 1.2 MeV and 137Cs 662 keV radioisotopes recording decay time e.g. using a gamma ray excitation 22Na source using the coincident technique and or detecting thermal events during synthesis and melting e.g. using a differential calorimeter . Additional methodologies are described in e.g. Doty F P et al. Elpasolite scintillators 2012 9951 December 2012 OSTI ID 1096473 109 pages Malkin B Z et al. EPR and optical spectra of Yb in CsCdBr Charge transfer effects on the energy level structure of Yb in the symmetrical pair centers 2000 September 62 11 7063 70 Carlin R L et al. Superexchange interaction in dimeric CsYbBr1990 May 67 9 5855 6 and Hehlen M P et al. Optical spectroscopy of the dimer system CsYbBr1993 February 98 3 1768 75 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The materials of the invention can be configured for any beneficial use. In one embodiment the material is a scintillator that converts incident radiation into light emission. Accordingly the material would find uses in methods and apparatuses for measuring radiation detection. In another instance light emission from the material can be used as a light source e.g. a solid state light source . In some non limiting embodiments such methods and apparatuses are beneficial for any use requiring high luminosity good energy resolution excellent proportionality exceptional optical quantum yields and or short decay times. Other uses are described herein.

The materials of the invention can be configured as a radiation detector. As described herein the materials of the invention emit light upon exposure to such radiation. Thus a radiation detector can be made e.g. by coupling the material with a component for detecting the light produced by the material when it interacts or scintillates when exposed to a radiation source. In some embodiments the radiation detector includes a window that transmits a radiation signal to be detected a scintillation material e.g. any described herein configured to receive the radiation signal and a photodetector configured to measure the resultant emission from the scintillation material upon being exposed to the radiation signal. The radiation detector can be used to measure various kinds of radiation including near UV excitation UV excitation X rays gamma rays cosmic rays and particles characterized by an energy level of greater than about 1 keV.

In some embodiments the radiation detector includes the material of the invention and a photodetector configured to measure light emission from the material and to provide a detectable signal of the emission. Exemplary photodetectors include a film a photomultiplier tube PMT e.g. a solid state PMT or a position sensitive PMT a photodiode e.g. an avalanche photodiode APD such as a silicon carbide APD or a hybrid photodiode a microchannel plate a photocathode a charge coupled device CCD etc. Such photodetectors can be provided in any useful form such as an array.

In particular embodiments the radiation detector further includes an optical coupler e.g. configured to deliver light from the scintillation material to the photodetector and or an optical window e.g. configured to deliver light from the optical coupler to the photodetector . In some embodiments the radiation detector further includes a reference light source e.g. configured to stabilize gain where the reference light source is optionally a solid state light source including the material of the invention .

Additional components may also be present. For instance a reflector material can be placed between the scintillator and a housing for the scintillation material. In another instance the housing can include a sample holder e.g. to contain a test sample a shield e.g. a magnetic light shield configured to surround the housing and or sample holder to minimize radiation exposure to a user of the detector one or more dynodes a collector e.g. configured to accumulate light and or electrons and or one or more resistors. The radiation detector can further include electronics e.g. one or more of a pre amplifier an amplifier a high voltage source e.g. to provide power to one or more electronic components a voltage divider a dynode tap an oscilloscope a scaler a discriminator a multi channel analyzer a power source a digital counter a coincidence circuit a pulse analyzer and or a circuit to process the electrical signal from a photodetector and measure the height width and or frequency of the electrical signal .

These components can be arranged in any useful way. For instance the material photodetector and optical coupler can be integrated within a housing e.g. a hermetically sealed housing such as for a hygroscopic crystal . In other embodiments one or more components e.g. any described herein are provided in an integrated assembly.

The material can be employed in methods for detecting radiation. Such methods can include exposing the material of the invention to radiation and detecting light emitted from the material with a photodetector e.g. any described herein .

Such methods and apparatuses can be useful in various fields such as for spectroscopy e.g. gamma ray spectroscopy medical imaging and or drilling applications e.g. downhole gas drilling or oil drilling . Accordingly the methods and apparatuses can be adapted for any of these particular uses. For instance for use in medical imaging the radiation detector can be configured for medical imaging such as in radiography fluoroscopy gamma ray spectroscopy e.g. using a gamma camera of the Anger type scintigraphy X ray computed tomography CT positron emission tomography PET single photon emission computed tomography SPECT etc.

In another instance for drilling uses the material includes a housing configured to surround the scintillation material and to withstand various types of operating environments e.g. high temperature high vibration high shock etc. . In some embodiments the housing includes a seal that is configured to maintain the scintillation material under compression. In yet other embodiments the housing includes a window e.g. a titanium housing with a sapphire window configured to allow for maximum transmission from the scintillation material.

Alternatively the materials of the invention can be used in a solid state light source. The solid state light source can include a radiation source e.g. a light emitting diode such as a GaInAlN diode or an InGaN diode and a crystal or powder of the invention e.g. configured to receive a radiation emission from the radiation source . The radiation source can emit any useful wavelength of radiation that can cause photoexcitation of the material of the invention e.g. a radiation having at least one wavelength from about 200 nm to about 500 nm including any range described herein . The radiation source can be any useful source such as a light emitting diode e.g. including at least one semiconductor layer selected from the group GaN ZnSe and SiC and at least one active region comprising a p n junction selected from the group GaN AlGaN InGaN and InAlGaN . Methods of making and testing solid state light sources are described e.g. in Ye S et al. Phosphors in phosphor converted white light emitting diodes Recent advances in materials techniques and properties 2010 71 1 1 34 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In some embodiments the solid state light source is a white light emitting diode LED .

Such light sources can be configured in any useful way. In the industry mixed phosphors are generally used to obtain a white light source. For example two or three phosphors are combined such that the combined emission of these multiple phosphors provides the appropriate emission. For instance a red phosphor e.g. Eu based phosphors are compensated by yellow phosphors e.g. YAlO Ce YAG Ce phosphor to produce a white source. However such mixed phosphor systems generally exhibit diminished quantum efficiency due to reabsorption and increased color aberration. In another approach co activated phosphors using energy transfer through down conversion e.g. such as in Ce Mn Eu Mn or Ce Eu systems are used to provide white source which provides provide better color rending as compared to mixed phosphor systems. Still these co activated systems generally exhibit decreased total luminous efficiency and longer lifetimes. In contrast the present scintillation materials can be used in a single phase white emitting phosphor. For example as shown in the emission of an exemplary crystal exhibits high optical quantum yield e.g. from about 91 to 94 of the appropriate emission spectra having broadband emission e.g. from 350 nm to 700 nm with a sufficient red contribution . These characteristics have outperformed commercial phosphors that are currently used in the phosphor converted white light emitting diodes through the use of mixed phosphors or co activated phosphors. In addition the materials of the invention could e.g. possess increased efficiency e.g. by no energy redistribution which can provide reduced color aberration increased color rending and potential low cost in manufacturing. Accordingly the invention also includes a single phosphor system for a white light emitting diode including any scintillation material described herein.

The solid state light source can include any additional components such as a light conversion layer e.g. located on the top side of a radiation source and including the material of the invention one or more polymers e.g. an organic silicon polymer a lens cover e.g. configured to gather light from the conversion layer etc.

The materials of the invention can also be useful for methods of producing illumination. Such methods include providing a radiation source e.g. configured to emit radiation having at least one wavelength from about 200 nm to about 500 nm and exposing a material of the invention thereby resulting in the emission of illumination from the material.

Exemplary other uses as well as methods of making and testing scintillators are further described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 067 815 7 067 816 7 608 201 7 670 578 7 863 572 8 021 636 and 8 252 260 Ye S et al. Phosphors in phosphor converted white light emitting diodes Recent advances in materials techniques and properties 2010 71 1 1 34 Yang P et al. Crystal growth and scintillation properties of CsNaGdBr Ce2013 April 60 2 1033 8 and Yang P et al. The synthesis and structures of elpasolite halide scintillators 2009 1164 1164 L11 05 8 pages each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

We prepared an exemplary cerium doped gadolinium based sorohalide CsGdBr Ce. The sorohalide was prepared by direct melting process using stoichiometric amount of CsBr CeBr and GdBr. About 5 mol. of CeBrwas added to substitute Gd in the compound lattice as a scintillating activator or dopant. The starting anhydrous compounds 99.99 obtained from Sigma Aldrich were mixed and loaded into a quartz ampoule in an argon filled glovebox. The ampoule was vacuum sealed before melting in a box furnace. A single crystal of CsGdCeBrwas grown by a vertical Bridgman method using the preparation procedure as provided Yang P et al. Crystal growth and scintillation properties of CsNaGdBr Ce2013 April 60 2 1033 8. The performance and characteristics of this compound is based on the purity of the powder and the optical quality of the single crystal grown by the Bridgman technique. After comparing the structural information without wishing to be limited by theory it is postulated the unique axial symmetry of sorohalides either rhombohedral or hexagonal structure might benefit for energy transfer from the excited states in the host material to activator centers.

A skilled artisan would understand that the scintillators of the invention can be formed by any useful process. For example and without limitation it is conceivable to prepare these sorohalide compounds by slow evaporation from a hydrobromic acid. In this process for example high purity CsBr GdBr and CeBrcan be dissolved in HBr solution. Then the resultant solution can be dried and coated on a substrate under mild heating in a vacuum or in an inert atmosphere. Other non limiting examples for synthesis are described herein. Thus a skilled artisan would understand that the sorohalides of the invention can be obtained by any useful synthesis e.g. any synthetic procedure described herein including modifications or optimizations thereof .

After synthesis we conducted further studies to characterize the sorohalide scintillator. In particular we observed enhanced light emission for the sorohalide compound as well as characterized its excitation spectra emission spectra and lifetime components. The specific new compound that has been characterized and demonstrated is a cerium Ce doped sorohalide CsGdBr i.e. CsGdCeBr . Details are provided below.

As can be seen the exemplary sorohalide displayed enhanced light emission as compared to other scintillators . In this figure a known scintillator CsI Na is provided on the far left and the exemplary sorohalide is provided on the far right. Under UV excitation CsGdCeBremitted a broad light spectrum white . As compared with elpasolite CsNaGdCeBr the photoluminescence responses of sorohalide compound CsGdCeBrprovided a shift in overall emission from purple to white.

The exemplary sorohalide also emitted broad spectra with peaks that have not been previously observed for an elpasolite material. provides optical excitation and emission spectra for an exemplary sorohalide scintillator. As can be seen the photoluminescence response of the CsGdBrsorohalide is better than that shown for the CsNaGdBr Ce elpasolite . For instance pure CsGdBrexhibits one broad optical emission peak that covers most of the visible spectrum at about 499 nm in . In contrast CsNaGdBr Ce exhibits two optical emission peaks that are concentrated in the deep purple region about 382 nm and 415 nm in .

For this elpasolite with the Ce dopant the excitation spectra only showed a weak peak at about 275 nm and a strong broad peak at about 349 nm. The elpasolite without the Ce dopant exhibits slightly different excitation and emission spectra as compared to the doped elpasolite. For instance the undoped CsNaGdBrelpasolite exhibits a small excitation peak at about 214 nm no 244 peak a medium excitation peak at about 278 nm and strong excitation peaks at about 346 nm and 367 nm. The undoped CsNaGdBrelpasolite exhibits only one emission peak at 427 nm. Thus as compared to either the doped or undoped CsNaGdBrelpasolite the exemplary sorohalide CsGdCeBrexhibits an optical emission peak at about 499 nm and a shift in overall emission from purple to white see which shows the chromaticity diagram for sorohalide CsGdCeBrhaving coordinates at 0.237 0.394 . In some embodiments the crystal includes one or more dopants e.g. Eu including Eu to enhance the red emission to balance the light quality chromaticity as close to the sunlight as possible i.e. close to the white light coordinate 0.313 0.329 on the chromaticity chart . As compared to the typical Ce activated spectra i.e. emission at 382 nm and 415 nm the sorohalide exhibited an intense broad optical emission peaked at about 499 nm which extends from about 400 nm to almost about 700 nm. This emission provided increased light yield in the visible spectra as compared to conventional Ce activated scintillators which will enhance the detection sensitivity and potentially boost the energy. Accordingly suggest that the sorohalides of the invention can be useful for white light phosphor applications e.g. for solid state lighting .

In addition the lifetime components of the exemplary sorohalide were characterized. As seen in the short lifetime for this compound makes it suitable for radiation detection applications. The lifetime of the sorohalide included components in the nanosecond ns regime including a fast component of about 33 ns an intermediate component of about 113 ns and a slow component of about 561 ns which is suitable for many detection applications. For instance traditional workhorse scintillators have the following lifetimes NaI Tl about 250 ns CsI Tl about 1000 ns and CsI Na about 630 ns . Without wishing to be limited by mechanism the dominant fast component helps to minimize signal pile up for fast detector applications.

The sorohalides were also characterized by radioluminescence analysis. shows ionization excitation induced emission spectra by electron beam for the undoped and Ce doped CsGdBrsorohalide. As can be seen this figure shows that both intrinsic i.e. undoped and doped sorohalides can be used as radiation detectors e.g. for scintillators and or for x ray applications .

Overall the Ce doped sorohalide CsGdBrshowed a broadband emission spectrum from about 400 nm to 700 nm with a sufficient red contribution and an outstanding optical quantum yield about 91 to 94 . A skilled artisan would be able to further optimize the chemical composition and refine the processing technique for the sorohalides of the invention e.g. to optimize the emission spectrum to further enhance red emission e.g. by using a dopant such as any described herein such as Eu and or to increase optical quantum yield such as by using any methods described herein . These characteristics have outperformed commercial phosphors that are currently used in phosphor converted white light emitting diodes pc WLEDs employing mixed phosphors by compensating the red deficiency or co activated phosphors by using energy transfer .

In addition this new sorohalide compound with high optical quantum efficiency could be particularly beneficial for radiation detection and solid state lighting applications. Accordingly the present invention encompasses sorohalide compounds having enhanced performance and or efficiency.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each independent publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications and this application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure that come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth and follows in the scope of the claims.

